ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e88	The called alternate of the state of Buskerud, Unni Hennum Lie, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e105	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2958]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e121	The budget system of the budget is based on the principle of realistic budgeting and covers all government expenditure and revenue in each budget mine. Consistently practicing the allocation rules is a prerequisite for confidence in our political system and for adequate predictability and control of public resource use. For the same reason, individual decisions taken by Stortinget should be based on regular budgetary procedures. Since the adoption of the new budgetary system in 1997, we have increasingly seen examples of a weakening of budgetary discipline in the Grand Duchy. There are examples of the breach of the rules on appropriations, the merger of the majority of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on non-funded promises and the submission of proposals for amendments to the budget only weeks after its adoption. This weakens the governance of economic policy. The new Financial Regulation of the Grand Duchy was intended to avert such practices, but experience so far has shown significant weaknesses in the current system and its practice. Over the last few years, the size of the budget has made it a firm practice to make decisions on new appropriations, which are clearly included in next year's budget, at the end of the financial year. Examples of this are the allocation to Statkraft in the new age of 2003, the allocation to kindergartens in the new age of 2002 and the allocation of grants to student housing, private schools and ICT measures in the new age of the 2001 budget. There have also been examples of Roman decisions taken independently of the framework but having a clear impact on the framework. An example of this was the decision to resume the pension-stopping process in June 2002, with a cost of around 500 million. kr. We have also had a number of Document Nos. 8 proposals with some significant economic impact, without having been dealt with in a budgetary context. This is not contrary to the rules. Examples of this are Document No. 8:75 for 2001-2002, the so-called ‘childcare arrangement’, Document No. 8:21 for 2002-2003, on measures for Norwegian seafarers, and Document No. 8:25 for 2001-2002, on concession power. Policies are about prioritizing, and this is how public resources are to be tied up without any prioritisation or coherence with the budget areas in question. In my opinion, that is unfortunate. This was the background for this Document No. The 8 proposal was promoted and the aim was to ensure a broad-based review of the budgetary procedure and the management of proposals having budgetary implications. I therefore find it a little disappointing to record how the woolly majority of the Presidency assesses the matter in its comments. Instead of addressing the issue, a minutes of an closed meeting between the Presidency and the group leaders are referred to. There it is said on the one hand. ‘that decisions should be taken to derogate from the rules in cases where there is a majority in favour of taking decisions contrary to those rules’. It's all right, but on the other hand, it turns out that «the chief deliberation officer interpreted the signals which had come in such a way that it is not desirable to have rules which make it necessary to derogate from the rules in order to be able to take political initiatives». It is quite obvious that the breaches of the rules that have been in this period are based on some political initiative. So if, in cases where a ‘political initiative’ has been developed, the eligibility rules do not apply, this regulation seems to have some limited scope. It is particularly interesting to note the Workers' Party's attitude to this. After all, the Labour Party has had some experience in this area in the past, for example. Commented by former party leaders and former Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland at the National Labour Party meeting on 8 November 2002, quoted in the Evening Post: ‘What’s worse: It has become an ordinary sport that the opposition merges and takes individual decisions throughout the year that set up the expenditure side of the government budget and leave it to the government to find a cure. This will make overall and long-term planning impossible.» This was probably first and foremost inspired by the situation when the Workers' Party was in government, and of course stands for Thorbjørn Jagland's own account. However, on this point too, I think it is strange that the Labour Party in the vote does not find a basis for even looking at the budgetary system, but, on the contrary, does not accept the whole idea of 'rules which require one to decide to derogate from the rules for taking political initiatives'. I would like to include the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e158	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e161	I will not comment on all that Torbjørn Hansen has just said, but it is not ‘ulent’ of the majority of the Presidency to adopt the position that has been taken on this proposal. Of course, we are all aware of the political manoeuvrability provided for in the Financial Regulation, but I would just like to stress what the majority has said in its remarks that this was thoroughly, very thoroughly, dealt with in an investigation some years ago. And I have to say at least – and I have been in the Finance Committee for many years and experienced two different regimes – that it is a significant improvement as we deal with the budgets now, with the regulations we live by. I would also like to stress that the same questions raised by the proposers were dealt with at the group leader's meeting, and even if it is closed, something that Torbjørn Hansen almost heard to be very special, since the group leaders have the authority from their groups to also decide on as important matters as the allocation regulations. I also point out that, as the majority sees it, the signals from the group leaders are not desirable with rules that require one to decide to derogate from the legislation in order to take political initiatives. It's solid. That is why the majority of the Presidency shows that we cannot support a reassessment of the issues raised in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this proposal. I'll show you the rest of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e170	Let me first say that, like President Berit Brørby, I also responded to the representative Torbjørn Hansen's mention of the closed group leader meeting, as if the committee meetings were open. The vast majority of the settings that are being treated in this forum come from closed meetings – closed committee meetings, closed presidency meetings, so making it something dubious I thought was quite alarming. It is also true that in many contexts where the Presidency has a number of issues for formal consideration, the Presidency is fully aware that it is the magnificence group and the majority in this Chamber that have the real authority, and where there is party policy, different views between the parties, it is firm practice – and it has been for a long time – that the president, possibly more members of the Presidency, has a meeting with the group leaders, so that the group leaders can express what the groups think about a matter of normal treatment in the groups, just like all other matters that are being dealt with in committee, are presented to the groups. After all, it would be pointless if the six members of the Presidency were to take their personal views on every matter and promote voting for the Storting, and then suffer a thunderous defeat because they have not checked with their groups. So this attempt to make something suspicious about this, I don't think much about it. This has been dealt with in a completely ordinary way and the groups have expressed their views. That there's a party political disagreement, that's okay, and it's expressed where it's going to be expressed, that's here in the big room. Then to the content of the rules and rules of procedure, which have been taken up here. I would say that the Progress Party was opposed to the changes in the budgetary system that were made some years ago. We still have that system. So far, you've been able to get through. There have been major crises from time to time, but you've done it. I'm going to accept that this has happened. I understand the frustration of the government parties – I understand that perfectly. The government has chosen to be a minority government, and not even to try to be anything else. But it so much wants the power of a majority government, and therefore the government parties do not like that the majority of the majority of the majority in some contexts can do anything other than what the government does. This is one of the disadvantages when you choose not only to be a minority government but a minority government without any fixed parliamentary basis or any agreement with other parties in the Stortinge that can ensure firmness, credibility and long-termity. This was deliberately chosen by the government itself after the 2001 election. We offered at least to try to find out through conversations whether there was a basis for negotiations on a political basis for a majority government or a majority constitution. You didn't even want to have conversations about this. Then I think it's a little awkward to witness that you're constantly trying to avoid the negative consequences of your own choices. We felt a responsibility for the government up to last summer. After the revised national budget last year, when you chose not to keep the promises – here are the different opinions, but in our opinion, you would not revise that budget in accordance with the agreement we had last autumn – we declared that we no longer feel any responsibility. Since there has been the government without any basis in the Storting, and there is something it has chosen. So I don't think you can make too many written rules about what a large number wants to do. If you think you can do that through a regulation and a Rules of Procedure, you're simply wrong. It is a restriction of the freedom of action that a majority of people should and must have. It is also such that the rules of procedure, if proposed by the President, can be disregarded by a normal majority. If it's not the president who's proposing it, two thirds of the majority can override all the rules. So if you think you can prevent the Storing from doing something through some rule, you're wrong. When you first look at the allocation rules, I would also like to say that here are the things that should be assessed in the long term. What I feel is a problem in our Norwegian regulations and, to the extent in our constitution, is that all important decisions relating to taxes and taxes are only taken for one year at a time. This means that those who want to invest in Norway, and especially now in a globalised world, where there are many larger groups to assess whether to invest in a plant or plant in Norway, the Netherlands, China, Poland or Ireland, would like to have confidence in the long-term framework. The recent experience from Norway is not good. In late night hours of budgetary procedure, dramatic changes are taking place in the framework conditions of business. Depreciation rates may be halved, tax rates may change, tax legislation may change – and there is a negative impact on the new competition for attracting investment. Other countries have the possibility of concluding agreements with enterprises where the right to change tax rules and regulations is waived, the regulatory framework for enterprises. Ireland has had great success. They have attracted a great deal of investment because they have been legally able to waive the right to change depreciation rates, tax rates, asset investments for a 10- to 15-year period. Then the company knows that there will be no changes in the ten years. So we have the opposite experience in Norway. I think we need to discuss whether we should also try to change our system so that we can participate in global competition to attract jobs, advanced skills and capital-intensive jobs, by concluding more long-term agreements also on taxes and taxes and legislation, so that businesses are safe from changing them. I'm glad that an investigation into this will come during the summer. It's in the works of the Shipowners' Federation. One of our leading professors, as far as I understand, has undertaken the mission, so that we will be able to deliver some constitutional proposals before the deadline at the end of September for treatment in the next majority period. In any case, it is a subject far more important in relation to the rules and rules of procedure and our constitution than the restrictions proposed by the proposers on the allocation rules and the budgetary system, which are under consideration in the present position. Finally, let me also mention that, in addition to what is in the system, the sitting government, with the support of the Workers' Party, has introduced a so-called rule of action, which seems paralysing on common sense in this room. Now it is the case that last year the Government made a settlement with the Workers' Party. The Labour Party had some changes in the budget to enter into the subsidiary settlement, a subsidiary settlement said it would never enter into, but as one did a year later. Then it is clear that I have some understanding of the Workers' Party this day when the minority government in connection with the revision of the budget proposes to modify exactly part of what the Workers' Party got through the settlement negotiations last autumn. The Workers' Party thought they had won for 2004, the Government is revising. It's no wonder you get annoyed. That's the possibility of the revision, and that's where the government parties destroy themselves when they want stability. When I say that the rule of action really causes people to make remarkable, partly unwise, decisions, I think of the fact that now, therefore, the health pay and disability allowances have increased. It's a big problem. We have to do something about that. However, it does not help in the situation that because health and disability benefits have increased, the pressure support should be reduced or road appropriations reduced. What do they have to do with each other? Nothing. Nothing at all, other than this balance sheet in the budget. The Labour Party and the Government have agreed. If you have increased growth in the regular expenses, you have to cut in other areas to have coverage, despite the fact that the country has got 30 billion more than we had planned to get because of the oil price increase. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't help the underprivileged or the underprivileged payments if you cut roads – roads that we need, and that we could put people who are now raising unemployment benefits, which is an increasing and growing cost, to build. It had been reduced by making them build the road instead. But the rule of action is the Workers' Party and the government parties are warm defenders of. It's going to be very exciting to see how the Workers' Party is going to include its additions in the budget. Within the rule of action, they have to find cover heads for heads. It must also be the government parties, I have understood what I read in the newspapers. It'll be very, very exciting to see how to do it. But the rule of action in this area is, in itself, a futility. It has also been shown in recent years that, in the autumn, the Progress Party has made proposals to use some more oil money to use the terminology for Sanner, that is. That we are reducing the surplus on the state budget, the real state budget, we are getting our ears peeling and shutting for it. Then it goes a year, and then it's pretty much exactly what we proposed, which the government has used anyway, and then everything's fine. Therefore, it turns out that this rule of action has actually been abolished in practice, but there are some who desperately later appear to be there. But this case, that sick pay and disability benefits go up, and then you cut into press support and road appropriations for that reason, is not hanging in the hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e196	It's not very often you get to deal with a matter in Stortinget's plenary that is, if you can allow yourself to say that, as peculiar as this matter is actually. The representative Hagen went carefully through some of these points which, of course, are the most obvious, for the reason that this matter is at all promoted for plenary, is the powerlessness of the Government. It is rare for a government and government party here in the house to openly demonstrate their own powerlessness, by trying to change Storting's Rules of Procedure to get their will through. What lies in this is, of course, that the Storting and a national assembly must at all times be free to do what the national Parliament considers to be right. It also opens up today's Rules of Procedure by allowing derogations from the rules and regulations adopted by the Grand Duchy, either by a general majority or by a two-thirds majority. Of course, that's the way it has to be. The size, the people's representatives, must always be free to do what you think is right. I think that's pretty obvious to all the voters and also to most of the parties in this room. Nevertheless, when the parties to the Government choose to present this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy in such a way as not to give expression to the will of the Grand Duchy, it shows above all a government which does not have the authority, flexibility or competence to be able to obtain a majority by means of ordinary processes carried out in committees and in large-scale operations. If it's true that the government actually thought that what was said here was so infinitely important, that means you have to engage in that kind of dialogue to make friends in the Stortinget. Hagen's posts were in that way quite classical, quite typical and really quite to the point. It was Carl I. Hagen who pointed to this government, which made us now have a bourgeois government in Norway. Many letters were written to the Government and received a reply — a confirmation that Carl I. Hagen’s party was the parliamentary basis for this government. It was even Carl I. Hagen who pointed out who was going to be prime minister. If it had been up to the government parties, it would have been Jan Petersen who was prime minister. But it didn't work out. That is why today we have Bondevik as Prime Minister. But at the moment that the Stortinget has been constituted and the Government has been appointed, we feel that this government will not accept any of that which is the parliamentary basis of the Stortinget. That is why these three years of Norwegian policy have been completely wasted. This wing has made the voters powerless, because they don't know who's behind a single decision in Stortinget. For the government has made it a virtue, not just a virtue, they have made it a principle that it should not have friends in the Storting, and that one should preferably make different settlements in every matter that is actually decided in this room. It is this that makes the powerlessness of the Government light on us in the proposal that has been made here, by showing that minority parliamentarianism – the parliamentaryism of a friendless minority – is not a good way to govern a country. That means that in many ways this proposal may be a kind of bauta over how helpless minority parliamentarism can be. If you choose to be friendsless, at least you have to try to engage in dialogue with the Biggest games to get something done. That's what this government has chosen to do. You don't know much about the future. The Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament will be in place. The size must be free at all times to make the decisions the Stortinge believes are right. That's the way it's going to be in the future. But I think that these four years that will have gone by in 2005 will have shown many of the Biggest parties and not least the voters that what we need after 2005 is not a procurator's trick to prevent the Biggest's will to express itself. What you need is a stable majority board that allows you to plan for more than four years both taxes and taxes and government revenue and expenditure as far as possible, and tell the voters that this is the programme we want to go to and agree to. I think the voters would also have very good that there were majority constellations on both the right and the left that actually said that we want to talk, we want to be friends and go to elections together. But once again, this government makes it a virtue to go to elections in 2005 without having a majority in its back, to vote for a minority government, almost in principle, and that the bourgeois party of the Progress Party should still not be a parliamentary part of this government. There is an interesting situation in which the government has sat down, and the proposal that is being made today should, of course, never have been promoted. It is the most strange proposal that has been dealt with in the Grand Duchy's plenary session in this session, showing with all possible clarity this government's powerlessness and friendlessness. But when you choose a procurator rather than political content, unfortunately it has to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e211	The striking thing in the debate so far is that the Workers' Party, at Brørby, does not want to go into the issue, and that representatives Carl I. Hagen and Øystein Djupedal want to discuss anything other than what this issue actually concerns. There is no doubt that the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen, and now also Øystein Djupedal, have a deliberate strategy, namely to undermine the budgetary system and the allocation rules. And that's okay enough, but then you should say that too. What is a little more alarming is that the Workers' Party in the opposition chooses to act as populist as one does, and that one does not draw lessons from the experiences that both Thorbjørn Jagland and Jens Stoltenberg have made in the position. This Document No The 8-proposal addresses two issues. The first issue is how we handle Document No. Eight proposals in this big deal. I assume that the Presidency is aware that the discussion we have taken the initiative is also going in the other Nordic parliaments and in the other Nordic presidencies. I am, among other things, know that the current government in Sweden and also the Swedish Presidency have discussed this issue. In Norway, there is a problem – and the Workers' Party should see this – that we use the harvest to discuss how to distribute the funds within the framework, and then we come to January, and then it's full release. I have no problem seeing that the Progress Party and the SV, who do not have respect for the whole and the framework and budgetary discipline, seem to be quite right today’s system – that is, from January to June, we can promote all the proposals that we did not get through in the autumn, and that we can fight back on issues that we did not get along with – but that the Labour Party, which has also criticised the current government for spending too much oil money, does not see that it is a problem that proposals that are being promoted from January until the revised national budget, do not have the same requirements for the whole and the requirements that are set when dealing with it in the ordinary budget, I am more surprised. So I'm surprised that the majority, and perhaps especially the Labour Party, do not see this issue, and are not willing to enter into this debate. In the proposal, we also raised the question of whether a broader set of committees could be set up to look at developments following the last consideration of the budget regulation and the allocation regulation by the Stortinge. It is the second issue that is addressed, namely the management of the allocation regulation. It is right, as the representative of Brörby points out, that this issue was discussed when the budgetary system was evaluated, but if Brörby has read that evaluation, which I am a little in doubt about when I hear her statement, she will see that there are many of the issues that we address in this proposal. And if you have read the proposal that we have actually made, you will also see that since the last evaluation of the budgetary system, it has been a slippage and a deterioration. That the Workers' Party is not at all willing to address that issue, I must admit that I am quite amazed. The majority also notes the following: ‘Furthermore, the chairperson interpreted the signals that had come so that there is no need for rules to make one decide to derogate from the legislation in order to take political initiatives.’ [[burden president]] What does the representative Brøbby put in this sentence? Does this mean that any political initiative should not deal with the legislation on which the Storting has agreed? What in the world are we going to do with legislation, if that's how you evaluate the situation? I thought it was the way in Stortinget we took political initiative. Most of what we do is political initiative. If it is that the policy initiatives should not initially be within the regulatory framework, I cannot understand what to do with legislation. And if it is that you can't accept that if you're going to move outside the law, you're not going to make an explicit decision about it, it's going to be the pure anarchy in the Stortinget. I'm very surprised that you're not willing to go into these issues, because it's about respect for politics, and it's about our ability to operate overall economic governance. I understand that some parties see this as a threat to populism, but I had believed and hoped that those who were concerned about totality and accountability were at least willing to discuss the issues raised in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e233	The budget regulation has been adopted by the European Parliament, which is an effective instrument to prevent the adoption of what is a large majority in the European Parliament. The center party was against the changes that were made, precisely because we saw it would go like that. The Government Parties will now have even more stringent follow-up to the rules – that at any time of treatment that has financial implications during the year, account is to be taken of the sacred budgetary balance as defined in the Ministry of Finance. We have many examples of issues for which it has been a majority, have not been adopted. Right now I can mention the permitting rules. Before Christmas, there was a large majority that they should be so liberal that they had access to permitting for up to 42 weeks, but it was not possible to decide for more than 42 weeks for the first six months – and then one would come back to it. This gives unpredictability to the industry, and we are punished for that. There was a large majority before Christmas who said that we cannot have as high a fee for the Food Agency as proposed by the Government. We did not want us to be at the top of Europe when it comes to imposing such costs on our business. Nevertheless, it was implemented, and we get that after each punishment for it. Several of the cases mentioned by Torbjørn Hansen were carried out because we can then do as we have done. The nursery arrangement is one of them, and correcting the injustices of pensions is another. It has been shown many times that the sacred budgetary balance has not been at all important. Now we are dealing with the revised national budget, and the government proposes that we spend NOK 4 billion more than what went on in the autumn – without any problems – but not one krone in addition to it without the Minister of Finance having approved it. Before Christmas this year, we will adopt an additional NOK 4–5–6 billion. I'm sure of that, based on the experiences we've had. At the same time, the figures show that the Government could have followed the rule of action that was adopted here. If they had cut out the taxes given at $20 billion, we would have done it. Then we would also have more liberal appropriations for certain purposes that could have made us have had more activity in society today. I am pleased that the majority rejects the proposal of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e252	It was Mr. Sanner's statement that there would be anarchy in the main hall, which made me take the floor. If you sum up this session, I don't think it's anarchy that's the case, but unpredictable and random majority. That this government is in the hands of the Great Government is the government's own fault. If we do not want to accept the decisions of the Stortinget, we must use the parliamentary rules that exist for this in this House, developed over 100 years. That means that you ask cabinet questions, or you go into dialogue with the parties to get a majority for your own policy. This is the parliamentary practice, fortunately. This is how parliamentarians have, for many, many years here in the house, developed rules to deal with the impotence of minority parliamentarianism. That's what we're seeing here, but we're trying to institutionalize the regulations of appropriations and the rules of procedure of the Storting through the law firm. What's the most obvious sign is that it's impossible to know who's behind decisions in the Stortinget. That's what's most doubtful about this big thing. Now that we have a civil policy, I'll leave it to you. I don't take the content of politics as such, because I really must say that hasn't been much to boast about in these three years. But it is a political assessment – leave it alone. What's most dubious and most striking in these three years so far – and most likely it's going to be the last year – is that no one outside this house knows who's behind what decisions. This government has made it a virtue not to have friends here in the house, and this government even makes it a virtue to provoke those with whom you have gained a majority. And then let me take this example of revised budget, which we are now sitting and treating. When you go back to all the things that, in this case, the Labour Party got a majority in the ordinary budget, you choose to be friends, and you make it almost a virtue to say that you shouldn't have friends. What is then the very unambiguous summary of this during this period is not that we need to change the allocation regulation or any other regulation, but that the voters need stability, long-termity and predictability. You only get it one way, and it's actually by agreeing with other parties so that you make up a majority here, and a majority in the building a little bit further away in the street. That way you take care of this. I am very surprised that the government’s representatives have allowed their “sectares” here in the house to present this proposal. I am very surprised that a government made up of so many wise people, allows their representatives here in the house to make a proposal that should not have been promoted to those degrees. I am very surprised at that, for it is clear that this places the government in a very unfortunate light. It shows the government's inability and impotence to have a majority. However, this proposal has now come through and is being discussed here in the Chamber, but in most cases on these kinds of issues, the Members here in the Chamber are fortunately adults enough to say that we reject this proposal. We have just evaluated the budgetary reform – in that sample I put in. The majority thought this was all right. But we have a lot of examples, and there will be more, of the fact that the Storting in plenary deviates from its own decisions. I remember in particular that we adopted the billion abroad, which of course was completely outside of Storting's allocation regulations. There was a lot of procuratorism, again, to prevent the Storting from taking such a decision. But the House of Commons made the decision, and that was right. The point is once again: the decision must and will at any time, no matter what you make of changes in anything, stand free. I think that this debate really should never have been held, because there has been no good debate for the Storting as such. But those who are in the pit of shame are not the Storting. They are the ones who have promoted the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e271	I will not be tempted by the frustration of Jan Tore Sanner, but all his contributions testify that he believes that a regulation can save his government from its own paralysis of action and powerlessness. I also understand Mr Sanner's frustration at both the budgetary negotiations and the bad proposals put forward by the Government, but I shall leave it to that. The fact that the Workers' Party gets the label ‘popular’ when you point out obvious breach of contract is unfair and gets to pay Jan Tore Sanner. Today's budgetary regulation does not prevent overall political governance. The Financial Regulation does not prevent policy initiatives and does not prevent predictability if there is political will in this Chamber to show them. Therefore, in my opinion and in the opinion of the majority of the Presidency, the Rules of Procedure shall not regulate the operation of minority governments for the purpose of finding solutions. The rules of procedure shall be capable of providing for policy initiatives and shall provide for predictability. I believe that the regulations we have today are fully possible. That's why this maneuver here is going to be looking for some way to get the majority of the Biggest so you don't get to say what you're actually saying. But I think, in the name of democracy and, in fact, in the name of freedom of expression, that we must have such a regulation, so that all possibilities are open. What we are trying to do with this proposal is to prevent just a democratic process and a majority in the European Parliament. I think that's worth noting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e278	I must also say that I am amazed at Jan Tore Sanner in terms of his posts, and that as a new Vice President in the Right he continues with the negative characteristics of them The government in many respects depends on the goodwill of the Stortinget. It's like Øystein Djupedal recently said, that the government and its spokespersons kind of do what they can to not have someone who has friendly attitudes to themselves. That it was a bit of tone two to three years ago, I have a certain understanding of it. The political situation was different in 2001 and 2002. But now, when very much of the political life actually begins to look forward to the next major elections, which is next year, in 2005 – and when, in the government quarter, one should have recorded a relatively dramatically changed political situation in Norwegian politics by saying that the Labour Party for the first time, at least in recent times, if ever before, has said that they have a desire to go into government with other parties, and that they have as their goal a majority government after the 2005 elections if the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party were to have a majority – one would believe that the three current government parties, which at least I have understood would like to continue in government, began to adjust their course in order perhaps to get it to. Instead, they seem to have set a kind of goal of making it most difficult for themselves to continue after the 2005 elections. It begins to seem as if the government parties are seeking to avoid being in government; they say that they would like to be in government, while all the actions indicate that they would like to be released. And it amazes me. Had there been agreement between the declared objectives and the rhetoric, the rhetoric should have been changed there to say that it was about doing on the non-social, bourgeois side to try to get to a relationship between the parties which at least had its origin in a common least multiple: that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Progress Party had a common interest in maintaining their majority, and that there should not be a majority for the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Labour Party. In fact, if these three parties are given a majority, then the government power – because it is quite obvious, I think one has to take it inward, that the gradual but methodological coordination that takes place between the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre will result in the creation of a credible socialist government option, either a majority government or a workers' party government with the agreement-based support of the SV and the Center Party. This should lead to thinking a little new ideas on the opposite side, instead of having the challenging tone that Jan Tore Sanner chooses to continue with – he has had a good teacher in the finance minister, Per-Christian Foss. You keep doing this after the climate change in Norwegian policy, and it amazes me. In the case itself, I initially fully agree with President Berit Brørby and with Mr Øystein Djupedal. It shall not be possible, by means of a procurator's bill, to prevent a large number from doing what the large number considers appropriate. Then it should be to create a stable growth rate behind a government – a majority government or in agreement – and to choose the benefits of having it. Jan Tore Sanner has not touched on it in one word, as far as I could hear, that this is precisely a deliberate election that the government parties have made. It has actually been that every time there have been signs that could indicate that you tried to get a firmer base, you're quick to emphasize that the Government is independent of all parties in the Storting, and that you look at its relationship with the Progress Party, which put the Government in, and the declared opposition parties, SV and the Workers' Party. So I have to say, I'm amazed. If the Government and government parties continue this line, it is at least clear that there is no chance of maintaining the government power after the 2005 elections. There's no chance of that. It's clearly likely that the non-socialist majority that we've had in this period will be gone. The responsibility for it lies alone on the three government parties, by the conscious line they have led with just getting unfriends and opponents in the Storting and putting all the good cards into the hands of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party towards the 2005 elections. I think it's very unwise. I hope summer will give some thought and some new impulses. The government may need to do the relatively tough task of getting a budget through in this room for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e286	It's tempting to continue where the representative Carl I. Hagen concluded, but I'm not going to take that invitation in its full width, except to join me in thinking is something that should say inwardly more. Let me also add that I think there are many interesting estimates in the Strategy Committee of the Progress Party. I have no doubt that if you also live up to it in practice, the relations between the government parties and the Progress Party will also improve significantly. Otherwise, I have to admit that the fact that the representative Øystein Djupedal is blowing up does not make a very big impression. One might be tempted to ask if it is the headline in the newspaper that there might be a Council chair waiting for the representative, Mr. Djupedal, who has gone to his head, but now leave it. It is a little amazing that Øystein Djupedal in the same breath as he determines that the government is conducting a bourgeois policy, saying that it is completely unpredictable, winged and back and forth. Because if that's the case, and I actually agree with the representative, Mr. Djupedal, that the government is running a civil policy, that means it's quite predictable. We also see that in practice. Let me just finally clear up some misunderstandings. The representative, Brørby, says that you're trying to prevent the Storting from expressing what you're talking about. Where's that representative Brørby from? We have not said that the Storting should not express what is meant. What we have said, on the other hand, is that if the Storting chooses to break its own rules, a decision should be made to break the rules. This means that you have to follow the track that was laid when you were granted the foreign billion. When the foreign billion was granted, President Stortinget pointed out that the regulations were now broken. Then a decision was made to set it aside, and then the majority agreed to grant one billion. That's exactly what we're adding. On the other hand, what we are responding to is when the Presidency says that, almost without any debate, you should be able to put the legislation aside and say that it is something we have, but that we do not want to follow. The point is that if the Storting wants to break the regulation, something the Storting can actually do, you have to make a decision about it. I'm a little surprised that the majority doesn't take it inward.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e295	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2958]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e311	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e320	It is an important theme that is addressed in Document No. 8:45, and there are interesting areas it focuses on. It is clear from the Committee's examination and from the vote that there is a broad consensus on the importance of the development of skills in the labour market. The use, and development of competences are important elements in increasing value creation. Since 1999 in Innst. S. No 78 for 1998-1999 decided to implement a reform of continuing education and training, the reform of competence, several measures have been taken. These actions have been important in facilitating the framework conditions in order to enable individuals to gain the necessary and desired level of competence. In particular, measures such as the right of adults to primary and secondary education, the right to education leave, the tax exemption for continuing education and changes in the legislation of the Loan Fund have been important. However, there is now a need to consider a new policy device to reach more advanced sectors that have taken less advantage of the measures and to reach people with low formal qualifications. It is an important political task to facilitate the provision of continuing training for larger groups, and in particular for those groups that to date have made little use of these services. Competence reform is both a education reform and a labour market reform. The development of competence is more than formal continuing training. Equally important is having challenging jobs at work. A one-sided focus on formal empowerment has been shown to be little fertile for low-skilled people. In order for these groups, those with low levels of education, to be created a working life that better facilitates learning at and outside the workplace. This is primarily a responsibility for the social partners, and it is not least important that a limit increase is made in terms of the responsibilities and duties of the employer and the responsibilities of the individual employee. The Committee is unanimous in its comments that it would therefore be positive that pilot projects can be implemented in sectors that are currently investing little in the development of competences. Projects must and should be based on the needs of the industries concerned, and different funding models for living should also be tested. One of the problems in this area today is that costs related to education should be treated as an economic problem for individual workers and for individual employers. The Committee is not in favour of the establishment of a general continuing training fund now. It is likely that such a fund will not hit those groups that need it the most, i.e. those with low formal education, but prefer those that already have high education. This conclusion is in line with the majority conclusion of NOU 2001:25, Support for living by educational leave, from a sample led by Sigbjørn Johnsen. In a letter to the Committee dated 15 April, the Council of State warns that the Government will assess how a greater degree of coordination of education and labour market policies can be achieved in order to achieve a more competent and flexible workforce. The Committee welcomes this. It is also announced that the Ministry will develop a long-term strategy for competence policy by 2010. This work will be carried out in cooperation with the social partners, and the Council of State notes in its letter that it will return to this in the 2005 State budget. I would also like to refer to the future treatment of St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning, where this theme is also addressed. It is shown, among others: that a working group has assessed whether the existing legislation and regulations are in keeping with the intentions of the reform of competence, and that the group has made several proposals to amend the law and regulation. So this is going to come back to during the processing of the Storing Message. In contrast, the county authorities facilitate the provision of secondary education to adults. The information varies in both quality and quantity. The county councils were also prepared to meet the different measures. Within its framework, county municipalities also give a high priority to 16- to 19-year-olds. There is also a wide variation in the waiting time for participation. These are the countries that have the most adults in secondary education, who have the most in line. There may therefore be reason to review the income system in order to assess whether it adequately captures the responsibilities of the county council towards adults. The majority of the Committee agrees with the intention set out in point 2 of the proposal by the proposers and therefore asks the Government to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. At this point, the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen are a minority and promote their own proposal. In addition, the Committee shall submit a unanimous opinion and its recommendation for a decision shall be that the document be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e343	Let me first establish the importance of adult education and continuing education so that we can ensure all lifelong learning. It's important both for society and for individuals, and we're going to remind each other of that, especially today, related to unemployment, the need for change, and the desire for people to be as active as possible. It is an important part of the education system. I would also like to start by saying that the competence reform lives and has given many good results: formal rights, extensive cooperation between authorities and the parties and many good projects in the workplace. However, with the draft document, we have wanted a renewed focus on the reform of competence, because it has been easy to drown in the discussion about higher education, about the entire initial training, and because I think the Government has treated the adult education sector in a voteable manner in recent years – it is probably not in one budget it has not been proposed cut in some area within the field of adult education. Research, which we have more of today, shows some weaknesses – or I might call it more unused opportunities. Few people use and use continuing education, 7 pst., there is 1 pst. which employ training leave and are those with low formal qualifications who participate at least in continuing training or in training and education. There are many reasons: there may be a lack of information and knowledge, there may be a lack of motivation, a lack of awareness of the benefits of training and education, or a lack of incentives, such as: by general. However, there are in particular two points pointed out which prevent participation in education and training; time and economics. It is therefore seen as a personal responsibility for the employee or as a responsibility for the employer. Three out of four employees feel the need, and want more, competence. Most people get this in job context, but it's 30 pst. which also feel that they have unmet needs, and here it points both to learning in the context of work and to formal learning. I believe that it is a common responsibility to provide funding, organisation and motivation – that is, cooperation between the parties, which is the very basic idea of the reform of competences. It's a shared responsibility to get a part of this done. How? Here, on the part of the proposers, we have intended to follow up the formal rights and look at the economic basis. That doesn't mean we underestimate the importance of the workplace as the learning arena. There, we believe that the parties themselves will be active drivers. We may recommend more information and knowledge, but we have especially looked at the financial basis, based on reporting to us that many do not receive an offer of higher education under their right. This is justified by the need to give priority to youth. It's good that we get a review of the income system. The second is that we want to try out models or attempts with support for living, especially in sectors where there is little investment, where there is a low level of formal competence, and that this must be a cooperation between the authorities and the social partners. I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job of leading the Committee to support the proposals, which means that the Committee stresses the importance of continuing education and training, of developing adult competences. On two points it means further progress for continuing education, which is important both for society and for individuals. And I stress that even though we are mild in form in our recommendation, I assume that the Council of State perceives what should happen related to attempts to support living.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e363	Today – as 19 January 1999 – the Progress Party has a main focus. There are children and young people and their rights for the rest of their lives. Unfortunately, adults come to us in second row – now as they did then. And the reason why they're doing it in this context is because we're int. S. No 78 for 1998-99 decided not to carry out an economic assessment to ensure this training for adult workers affected. This means that it has been decided that adults are entitled to primary education, that adults are entitled to secondary education, but in that debate and with that decision it was agreed that this should be financed within the scope of the 375 pst rule. Although the trade unions frequently pointed out that this was completely impossible, the Arbeiderpartiet and SV were of the opinion that this could be done. I said in that debate: ‘The party takes children and young people seriously, and we have a problem when invited to adopt a very comprehensive reform without a price tag.’ When we then knew that the rule of scope was 375 pst. not enough to care for children and young people with special needs, to care for learning places, and to teach children and young people in school instead of in the company, this becomes quite strange and remains so. And now, when you're concerned that the county councils, through their practice, just show that they need to give priority to children and young people, this suggests a rematch and has very little to do with a long-term, holistic, joint assessment. The progress party has agreed to this setting up to one important point. For review of the income system, the scope rule of 375 pst. and the specific priorities of the counties in this respect. What the Progress Party wants is a broad review of all aspects of the practice of the different counties of adult rights. In other words, the adults who have adopted rights against our votes have a responsibility as part of this case, and we want to know specifically why this does not work. With this, I would like to raise the proposal that the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e377	The representative of Ursula Evje has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e380	I do not believe that this document No. The 8 proposal and the position we are now discussing lead to a paradigm shift in skills enhancement measures in business. I still think this might be a small step. We can get some movement in an important area. But it depends on the partners in the business community, both the employers' side and the employees' side, picking up the signals that we are now trying to give, and that they, together with the ministry, meet the challenges that we have given them through this attitude. The competence reform was and is an important reform, and the Stortinget has put in place what the Stortinget has been able to put in place. We've put in place leave provisions. We've given adults the right to primary school and the right to secondary school. We've raised not least what's going on in real-world competence, that is. acknowledges that there are different ways of acquiring knowledge and skills, not only in the academic tradition, but in a working life tradition. One learns in the workplace, raises it up, and says that real skills should be important in relation to formal skills requirements. This is what Stortinget has put in place. All of this is in place, and these are important parts of this reform. We are also in the process of completing a comprehensive KUPP project, which has gone over four years, where one has developed the workplace as the learning venue, which has been the most important in many ways. We've spent hundreds of millions on this very thing and got a lot of knowledge, a lot of experience, which is now going to be implemented and put into use around Norwegian workplaces. It means, if we are to succeed further, that the social partners are now taking the challenge that lies here and trying out different pilot projects. What's obviously been the bend -- we know a lot about that -- is the financing of living. There have been insufficient funding mechanisms for adults to take part in education and to participate in empowerment measures. Because we need to be aware that having a highly educated population, with a high level of competence and also point competence in some areas, but in particular a generally high level of general knowledge, is our main competitive advantage in this country. We have to take care of that, and we have to develop it further. This is what we develop through the training of young people, but also through the continuous provision of continuing training for adults, to take part in empowerment measures, to acquire new skills. That is what this proposal suggests, namely that adults should have this opportunity. My appeal now is simply that the department engages in dialogue and addresses this with the different industries – there are clearly industries where both the employers' side and the employees' side are interested in trying out different models of empowerment and funding for living – and find models, ways to organise it, based on the experience we have from the Competence Development Programme, and facilitate funding if necessary. Initially, we wanted in SV a tripartite funding – to build a fund that could lie there, which could be used for empowerment actions towards the different industries, and that it should be financed by the parties and by the public. We realize that we're not going to get it in this game. The answer is that, as a small step, one goes into relation to individual industries and tries to influence and participate in measures there. It also requires that if we get pilot projects started, manage to lift such projects, then the state must also be willing to go in with funding and support up on them. Then you have to go back to Stortinget. I therefore expect that if we start this kind of project, the Council of State will come back to the Stortinget with proposals for the allocation of various skills development measures around the business world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e395	The overall objective of the reform of competences has been to help meet the needs of society, the labour market and individuals. Knowledge and ability to convert are necessary in an increasingly evolving and changing world of work and society. A well-educated population is the most important resource a society can have. In a high-cost country like ours, where we cannot compete in all industries, the management of knowledge capital – the competence that sits in our heads – is as crucial for growth and value creation as the management of our petroleum wealth. The intention of the Competitiveness Reform is therefore very important. The projects and measures, such as the right of adults to primary and secondary education, the right to education leave, tax exemptions for continuing education and changes in the legislation of the Loan Fund, have been correct and necessary so far. These framework conditions have provided and provide individual opportunities for empowerment in line with the demands of modern society and work. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to build on the experience we have, while at the same time adjusting the objectives and giving room for new actions and projects. There is a need for more people to get to know each other and to make use of the various training and continuing training offers. Increased competence can give individual greater freedom of choice and better opportunities to realise their own wishes and needs. I live in Nord-Trøndelag, a state where the level of education is below the average for the country. People with low levels of education often have little motivation for learning. Some are struggling with bad experiences from a failed day-to-day school, others are tired of school. For these, it is not fruitful to focus on continuing education in the formal education system. Results from the Competence Development Programme show that human motivation for learning is strongly linked to their daily work, cf. letters sent from the Council of State to the Committee. At work, individuals see the need for more training and experience that new knowledge can provide a concrete response. It can be in the form of new and other tasks, better work done, higher demand and perhaps higher wages. Once some workmates in their own workplace have participated in competence development measures, this tends to inspire more people to action. It is about creating ‘culture for learning’ in the individual workplace. Unfortunately, the reform has not worked well enough here. The challenge ahead is to reach jobs and industries and individuals who have so far not been in demand for training. In order to reach these target groups, it is necessary to develop interesting and inclusive workplaces that stimulate increased participation in different learning activities. It is therefore positive that the Government, in cooperation with the social partners, is taking the initiative to launch some concrete pilot projects in sectors that are currently investing little in continuing training. Competence reform covers all adults. There is a link between education and unemployment. There is evidence that half of the unemployed have not completed high school. It is therefore appropriate to consider whether the right to secondary education for adults should be granted to special groups, such as: persons outside the labour force. In order for adults to seek training, they need to be familiar with their rights and information about the offers must be readily available. The survey shows that half of the respondents state that they have limited knowledge of adults’ rights to primary and secondary education. The information needs to be strengthened. The Christian People's Party wants all adults, both those who are at work and those who do not have work, to have a real offer of training. The reform of competences has been designed in cooperation between the social partners, educational actors and the Government. This cooperation has been very central and is a necessary prerequisite for the whole reform. The Christian People's Party regrets the fact that the social partners have not prioritised the quality reform higher in wage making. It is important, and the Christian People's Party hopes that it will happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e410	The reform of skills has been important in facilitating the framework so that workers can gain the necessary skills, and thus also provide the necessary skills to the business community, the labour market. A lot has happened. I understand that the Competence Development Programme and the Reform of Competence are actually quite unique in the European context, and that Norway is actually seen as a leading country in this area. I think that's very good. But that's not all that's as good. The right of adults to primary and secondary education, the right to leave under education and tax arrangements has been and are important instruments, which in future competence policy must also be the cornerstones of lifelong learning. The Central Party agrees with the Ministry that it is also necessary to assess a new facility of continuing training policy in order to reach more widely sectors and low formal education. The competence development programme is the result of income policy cooperation between the social partners and the country. One of the problems with the reform of continuing training is that the costs of training are actually an economic problem for each employee and employer. Then we are concerned with what the proposers are talking about: this is about support for living. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Government, in cooperation with the parties, initiates pilot projects in sectors with low levels of continuing training, that a test is carried out of different models of funding for living, and that any financial consequences of this will be addressed in the Grand Duchy when examining the annual budgets. It is a goal that business and working life have employees with relevant and good competence. The competence development programme has been important to strengthen competence and to achieve the objective of relevant education and training in relation to business, for competitive reasons, etc. It is therefore important that the future competence policy is both long-term and provides for flexibility, so that one reaches the target audience of the target audiences of the Competence Development Programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e427	Let me just say first that I think it is very positive that we can have a small debate on the reform of competence, for the representative Vidar Bjørnstad is right in that it tends to get a little bit in the shadow of reforms related to the formal education system, for example. the quality reform or what is now taking place in initial training. Then it is important for me to say from this pulpit – as others have done – that the competence reform in Norway has been very successful. And there's a couple of ways to justify it. Firstly, I think it's obvious that we've put in place a system, a formal framework for lifelong learning, which is very well seen in an international perspective. Secondly, this is an example of good tripartite cooperation. One could actually say that there have been even more parties inside, because we also cooperate with actors in addition to the social partners and the authorities. It is a kind of hard work and a reform that has grown from below in many ways. Thirdly, it has led to changes in attitudes, for example: our attitudes to real competence. It has not really penetrated all sectors of society, and paradoxically, the education sector itself is one of the sectors in which it is deeply involved, but otherwise it has spread as a change of attitude. Fourth, there are very many projects and people who have participated in different types of actions and projects related to the reform of competences. Fifthly, it is very important and rare to mention: the reform of competences has helped to reduce and partially eliminate what would otherwise be serious recruitment problems in important areas of society, such as: in the health and social sector, where access to universities and higher education institutions on the basis of proven real competences has actually helped to eliminate — or at least reduce — recruitment problems that would otherwise be very large. Sixthly, it is clear that we are also doing well in relation to other countries. In fact, the OECD has carried out an evaluation of Norway and our lifelong learning systems. Over a couple of weeks, there will be a European Ministerial Conference in Norway that is just about lifelong learning, and that is because we have come a long way from other countries. I also think it is right to say that the objectives set for the reform of competence have been achieved in many ways, but they are still of such a nature that you can never say you're completely done with them. New people are coming, new needs are emerging, new challenges are emerging, and we are learning along the way as we implement this reform. That's why it's right and important to go further, but then to take into account the experience we've gained, and the knowledge we've acquired along the way, and we need more of it. I'd like to distance myself a little bit from the expression «revitalize» the reform of competence. I believe that there is a basis for saying that it can be further developed and given a new direction if there is a need for it, but that it is to the most extent vital and successful as it is. I would like to mention two things that the Government has put great emphasis on when we are now about to start a work on further developing the competence reform. One is the dialogue we have in the Competence and Working Life Forum. A similar forum was started under the then State Council, Lilletun, but was at the very bottom of the previous government, and we revitalised the dialogue with the social partners as soon as we entered the government offices. The second is that we started to develop a report of competence for Norway that is crucial to understanding what is now the main challenges. On this basis, we have started work on what we call Competence 2010, which is a further development of Competence Reform. This I will come back to Stortinget, among others. in the 2005 budget, with a further mention of when we have come a little further. Let me mention some elements that I think are important. Firstly, it is clear that there is not as much education as possible for the most important perspective, but it is developing opportunities for learning in daily work and establishing a culture in Norway to create learning organisations and learning cultures. It's the source of developing the right and more competences. Secondly, I think it is important to coordinate policy areas, including: because a particular effort is likely to have to be made towards some people with low levels of education who may be at risk of being out of the labour market or who are out of the labour market. This may be the case with tailor-made financial instruments, although I do not share the primary point of view of SV that there is a lack of a general funding mechanism. Thirdly, it is a question of creating a better culture and better systems for the implementation of the real skills acquired in working life, and fourthly, I think it has become clear that this with basic skills and the ability to learn is also important for continuous learning in life. That's why, in fact, what we've proposed about basic education in Culture for learning becomes important. We're in a phase where we're trying to gain more knowledge. I show you, among other things: to the Apprenticeship Monitor commissioned by the Ministry of Education and Research by Fafo. Finally, let me confirm that we will review the income system with regard to adult learning. We will follow developments in adult access to higher education and take initiatives towards the parties to discuss the committee's polite recommendation on experimental activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e471	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e474	I noticed especially, sir. Interventions of the Disciplinary with reference to the development of skills, which were of considerable importance for this reform. I've got that in my head. Then I would like to refer the Council of State to Mr. Wages and salaries say that private funding is to be provided at secondary school level, that private solutions are increasingly available. I would like to point out that the private sector and the market were the right policy before. The Privatist scheme has almost eliminated this government with demands for professional combinations and increased fees. The market is not working well without predictable framework conditions, and you don't. When you also agree to propose the removal of the funds, my question to the Council of State is: is what we see today, Right Policy, or has the Right completely gone away from what they said a few years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e483	I don't want to seem disrespectful, but I'm not sure if I understood the question. But if questions were asked about how we want to discharge the county's responsibility for adults' right to secondary education, then it's like – which I don't think there's any disagreement about – that the counties are responsible, but the counties can, of course, use other actors to fulfil that responsibility. It's up to the counties. This can happen in the country's own educational institutions, but of course you can also use others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e488	I would like to thank the Council of State for its attendance in relation to the Committee's position. I agree with most of what she said in her post, but at one point I will ask myself if I heard errors, or if the Council of State meant it as I perceived it. She said it's not important to give people the most education possible, but to give them learning in the work situation. I think it is a very narrowing of the possibilities that adult workers too would like to see, that there is simply a possibility here of continuing formal training as well. However, when the study points out that time and economy make it difficult, there are just attempts to support life support, which employers can also use in relation to employment, but based on the current situation — a situation in which the employer does not find financial opportunities, because it is cited as a justification. I just want to confirm that we also need to take into account continuing training, not just on-the-job learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e493	I can confirm that dealing with lifelong learning is not just about learning at work. But what we have discovered through the reform we have implemented, and research, etc., is – as LO has also said for all years – that it is often the most useful, most effective and most motivating form of learning. It's hard to identify, and it's very important, because it leads to a good innovation culture, whether you're talking about an economic culture or other kind of value creation. It is possible that I formulated myself a little vaguely, but what I meant to say was that in a lifelong learning perspective it is not as much as possible or as far as possible formal education for the most important thing. In a country where so many have long-term education, it is far more important to facilitate lifelong learning than to maximise formal education.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e500	Let me first say that I will reserve myself against the objectives of the reform being achieved. This may be because we have had a little different ambitions, and one cannot claim that the Right was the driver of the Competence Reform at the time we dealt with it in 1999. I would also like to refer to the NOU Best in the test?, which was a very comprehensive investigation, which showed that Norwegian industry spends relatively little on continuing training and skills enhancement measures compared to some other countries. For me, it is still important that businesses use resources, rates of continuing training, rates of skills enhancement measures, just to meet the competition. I think in many ways that we haven't made it, and it's a long time before we do it. My question to the Council of State goes on something else. It is simply a matter of the county's ability to facilitate higher education for adults. We get feedback from many counties that the adults are waiting in the back of the queue and that it is a long wait. Is the Council of State committed to trying to secure funding opportunities for the county so that this could be a real offer for adults?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e509	An important perspective for the future is to have a dialogue with the social partners, including the social partners. The Government’s Forum on Competence and Working Life, on which sectors and sectors it is important that the labour market focus more on the development of skills. What has been revealed by the reform of competences we have created is, among other things, that the requirements and opportunities for day-to-day development and learning, as it is called, are much less in sectors where formal education is low than in sectors where there is a high level of formal education initially. There is no good reason in my view, and that is a good example of how that knowledge should spread in the workplace. Of course, we're concerned about how adults can get their rights in relation to higher education. What we've been mapping is that it's approx. 1500 on the waiting list, waiting time is three to six months. Of course, it's a development we're going to follow closely. But that's something I think might be important to take with me when we discuss competence reform, where I sometimes have a feeling that low demand for something is interpreted as something wrong, that demand should have been higher: it could also be an example of need being met.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e516	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e521	The Committee's recommendation points out that the Ministry will develop a long-term strategy for competence policy by 2010. It was probably a little bit of what the Council of State was about, as part of the elements of the strategic thinking coming from the ministry. But it also gives me the opportunity to point out one of the potential areas that I think are too under-utilised and too under-used in Norway in terms of skills development. That is what lies within the technological revolution and the opportunities we have for the dissemination of skills, knowledge and learning through online education. We have relatively large geographical differences in education levels in this country. This applies both at secondary and, in particular, at higher education. It is, of course, due to the composition of the working life and the structure of our working life, but it is also due to the ability to acquire knowledge and competence. We are well advanced in Norway as regards the dissemination of technology and the construction of technological infrastructure. In fact, we're very close to the world's top in terms of the number of PCs in households, but we're far from the world's champions in using this technology in teaching. At university and university level, it is close to referring to the University of the Highlands and Islands of Scotland. Scotland has a geography and a structure that is very similar to that of Norway, among others. with a scattered population. There's been much more going on than us in using technology to spread higher education. We also have good examples in Australia, where several of the universities have come a long way in this area. At secondary school level, we also have a number of schools and school owners, i.e. county municipalities, who have developed good online services in cooperation, where training can be spread to the workplace and to the individual's place of residence. It also helps to expand the possibilities of providing both formal, secondary and tertiary education and tailoring training to individual needs at work. In addition, and not least, this goes straight into one of the points raised by the proposers in their proposal – the need for resources for living. By using technology to an even greater extent than we have been able to develop in Norway, we will actually reach more people, with a reduced need for support for living. My call is – when the Department is now working on this matter and with a long-term strategy – that we also look at the possibilities to develop this part of the training community better and put it into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e538	If we're going to use a common market language, Søren Fredrik Voie talked a lot about the offer page. I think it is right that some of those who took the competence reform – the decisions we made in 1999 – were really serious, precisely the education sector. There were colleges, there were colleges, there were colleges too, where they developed offers aimed at adults, arranged and used new ways to distribute their offerings. It was done a very good and exciting work. This is a good offer for formal empowerment for the adult population. What we point to in this document No. The 8 proposal is that it is not the supply side that is problematic, it is the demand side. We can't get up the demand side well enough. That's what we're proposing to go in and look at: how are we going to make demand available, how are we going to get adults who need these skills enhancement services, who need these training services, to take advantage of the available ones? That's when we point out that there has to be funding that makes adults have that opportunity. These are adults who are in a life phase where they are dependent on having someone who can finance their living while they are in an educational phase, either full-time, part-time or whatever it may be. Not least, there must be someone who is able to pay for these new offers that are being developed, because they are usually not free of charge. That's exactly what we're going to do in this Document No. The 8th proposal. So how are we going to get up the demand side? How are we going to do enterprises, people, employees, adults to demand what is available from continuing education at higher education institutions and higher education institutions? That's what we have to bring in some food. We have to get in with money, and preferably, as we see it, tripartite financing schemes, for which we have not received full support, but which I hope we can at least try out around in some industries. That's in many ways the answer to what Søren Fredrik Voie brought up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e550	It is kind of nice to record that SV is also starting to use market concepts such as supply and demand. When you enter into a discussion about these concepts, you can be tempted by the ability to go on in the same discussion. And when Rolf Reikvam makes it almost a tribute that you have done what is possible on the offer page to create the good offers – they are there, it is just to use them – I allow myself to make a small reservation: When the demand is not what we want it to be today, it may be that the offers are not exactly what the demand wants, or that they are not good enough. That was a little bit of the point of what I was trying to focus on, that here we have an opportunity area, which the parties in this important cooperation must also look at together. With the parties, I mean the state, of course, with its higher education and university systems, which have a great responsibility and a great task to make this work, but also to motivate those who want and demand education, but who do nothing about it, among other things. because they may not know well enough about all the offers that are there or because the offers are not well organised. I hope, therefore, that we can meet in future discussions on this topic, where you do not see it so that everything is done well enough until today, but rather look at that here we have many tasks that are unresolved, and that we cannot solve everything with SV's traditional recipe: just grant money.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e559	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are treated together. [[See page 2958]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e590	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e599	Document No 8:38 is about proposals from Arne Sortevik and Ursula Evje on clarification of the free principle in primary school. The background is the Stortinges treatment of Ot.prp. No 94 for 2001-2002 on changes to the Training Act, where the new paragraph was to regulate the free principle. The point of the Training Act § 2-15 is to stress that everyone should have equal opportunities to participate in school activities, without the school requiring any form of self-employment. The assumption is that the activity takes place at school and under the direction of the school and as part of primary education. The proposers need clarifications on this, and I expect that they themselves will make proposals on this. The rest of the Committee does not see the same need, but instead refers to a circular, F-14-03, which specifies this principle. This circular has been sent to all the municipalities, municipalities, KS, FUG, the Learning Centre and the counties, and the Ministry asks that all primary schools, pupils and parents be informed about § 2-15, i.e. about the right to free public primary school education, as stated in the Training Act. In this circular, there is a separate section about camp school and other tours. So you can still go on a school trip, but it can't be paid on your own. In the past, most parents paid some of the camp schooling for the students. Last year it was estimated at 60 million. kr. This has now been added to the framework grant to municipalities — this year increased to 62.5 million. kr. In addition to this, the municipalities have to cover travel and subsistence expenses, as they did before. Municipalities are free to choose whether to spend part of their teaching time on clay schooling, but the primary school curriculum places great emphasis on the use of leisure and outdoor activities. I want to add that camp school stays are a good tradition and a good offer during the training period. Furthermore, it is further clarified in this circular how gifts, virtues, etc. shall be understood and invited to discuss these issues with the Council bodies of the schools. There is still room for voluntary work in school. The point is that all students should have the same opportunity to participate in school-based activities. No conditions shall be attached to gifts and the class boxes must be pupil- and parent-controlled. The staff have been delegated the powers to exercise supervision under the Training Act and free primary public education is one of the supervisory areas. The Committee recommends that the document be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e618	Mr Reikvam was given the floor on behalf of the rapporteur-general for case No. 5, Lena Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e621	This is a proposal from the Left's Trine Skei Grande to ask the Government to propose to amend the Training Act, so that enforcement of these conditions – i.e. those at free primary school – is transferred to each municipality. An overall committee concludes that the proposal is not accepted, but there are different comments on this. The rapporteur also agrees that this proposal is not acceptable. It is not long since we decided to tighten up the Training Act, where it is clear that it should not be allowed to make a self-payment for primary school education. We did this because we received relatively strong feedback that various forms of self-payment had been tried. We got examples that there were schools where a quarter of the students sat again while the rest went to camp school. We had classes there until a quarter of the students were left at school while the rest of the class went to camp. This was an interpretation and practice of the training law that was probably not illegal at the time. Then we got this kind of situation, and we can't have it like that. The population majority also said we're not going to have it that way. That is why we tightened up the training law and sealed the holes – to the extent that they were holes – that opened up this practice. Now we see that more people are trying to rematch. I would like to see this proposal from the Left as a rematch to the principle. The size should no longer, in the form of law, crush this principle, but leave it to the municipalities to make legislation and practice it as they please. I am very pleased that a joint committee, including the proposer, has agreed that this should not be accepted. One of the pillars of our welfare community is free primary school, free secondary school and free higher education. We have to be able to do that as a principle, and we have to legislate these principles. I am pleased that in this Chamber there is still a majority in favour of holding on to this pillar of our welfare society, namely free education to the university level. Thus, at least there shall be no economic obstacle to the possibility for anyone to avail himself of the offers made by the public. I choose to believe that the legal wording that we have now included in the Training Act is so clear and clear that it should be able to practice all municipalities. The free principle is stated there, it is not permitted to make a self-payment for arrangements that are part of the school's pedagogical arrangements. I cannot understand that this should be so terribly difficult for the municipalities to practice. I see this more as an expression that municipal poverty causes people to look for different ways to get income to get the wheels around. So you start to find schemes that may go a little bit across the law, and then you practice it in a way that makes there be conflicts locally, and then we get these things going. It should not be difficult to practice this free principle as the Storting has knuckled it. I sincerely hope that we will release several of these kinds of issues in which we will try to refute this fundamental principle that there will be free education in this country. At the moment we fail that principle, we are tearing away one of the supports of our welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e647	A unanimous increase in 2002 stated that all children should have the same opportunity to participate in the activities organised by the school, as part of primary school training, and that all pupils should be able to accept the offer independently of the financial resources of the council. All parties agree that the free principle should apply in primary school. That's good. But then there was this theory and practice. We must give the Advancement Party the right in that it advises a certain degree of confusion around in School-Norway after the Training Act was amended and the principle established. In September 2003, there was a presentation by the county councillors to the schools on how to deal with the legislation, and the ministry later provided further information. Another thing is that many schools and school owners have strongly disagreed with the removal of the savings schemes of the students, and that in some cases this resulted in some extra work for the schools. But meeting such a ‘protest’ from school teams to do as the Progress Party and to demand another circular from the ministry is not the right way to go. The school owners who have not now got classrooms and hard work to work are hardly getting this done in a better way if the government specifies in another circular how the law is to be practiced. Well, this was the progression party's solution to the clay school problem, a problem that obviously also the government party left is struggling with. I must say that it brought some joy when the Left's parliamentary leader in the Stortingen promoted his Document No. Eight proposals to allow municipalities to enforce the parental payment in primary school. In fact, it says that it is proposed that each municipality itself should enforce rules on parental pay at school. Is it that the Left has gone away from the free principle? What is the view of the Left Government Party on parental pay in school? We know the government's vision. By letter of 28 April, the State Council of Clement stated in cash that she sees no reason to amend the training law on this point. The Labour Party fully supports the Council of State in this respect. But what does Left mean? Are they now too much money in school, for parents' pay and for free? Clearly, the Left Government Party believes that if the municipalities decide, the problem will be gone. This is a kind of political trick that doesn't work in the practical everyday life. Push the problem under the carpet, stick your head in the sand and the problem is solved. No, I can't. With the starvation of today's government running towards the municipalities of the country, I don't think there's any willingness to offer camp school stays in each local government, that's the money that's missing. At the moment that the government together with SV introduced the clay school funds into the framework grant, the offer was reduced. From my point of view, both of these proposals we are now debating would have been completely unnecessary if the Stortinget had given its support to the Workers' Party's proposal to give the students a statutory right to camp school stays. Unfortunately, the proposal only received the votes of the Labour Party. If the problem with the camp schools is too little money, the Stortinget must start there. Lack of funding is not solved by having the Government clarify the rules with a new circular and explain the legislation once more. We therefore support the unanimous position of the Committee that the proposal from the Left should be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e662	Case No. 4 first: The background for signing together with the representative Ursula Evje has proposed clarification here is twofold. One is mentioned by several, so that's the Storting's own clarification of the free principle in a new section 2-15, which specifically mentions camp school stays and other trips. Well, guidelines and explanations from the department have been sent out, but our impression is that there is still a good deal of confusion and confusion about how this should be interpreted, both among school owners, school managers, teachers and not least among parents. That's one part of the background. The second part is the financial arrangement, i.e. the financing of the type of activities listed in sections 2-15, camp school stays and other trips, in order to stick to it in concrete terms. The point is that in the 2003 budget agreement for the main budget, between the Government Parties and the Progress Party, grants were earmarked for camp school stays. That fuse we thought we were going to carry far. It carried for half a year, up to the municipal bill that we got a year ago, where it became a majority of the government parties and other ‘camera’ to remove the part of the budget agreement that had been done half a year earlier with the Progress Party. Now it's a new occasion, because now we're dealing with a new municipal proposition. The Progress Party is once again promoting its proposal to earmark funds for students to stay at camp school, in the municipal proposition for 2005. Then there will be an opportunity to reverse for those who have contributed to creating a good part of this confusion. This is the main solution of the Advance Party, not to send clarifications through new letters and regulations from the Ministry. The main solution is to go back to the scheme that we put in place in the 2003 budget, namely to have an earmarked grant to cover the stay at camp school for 7th grade students. But when there is confusion, we want to clarify – the second best solution – and to clarify what is possible, to make it clear that at least it is meant to be money in the framework transfers to the municipalities, to clarify what is possible for school management, teachers and parents to do together, to ensure that it is actually possible to go to camp school. But it's not just the seventh grade that travels, it's also so that in many places there's a system where the tenth grade travels, and they like to travel on a study trip abroad, which they combine with language teaching. And that's also a good solution, like the system of camp schooling for the seventh grade. The curriculum of study is clearly much less well-known, but it is affected by the same problem that we point to in the context of camp schooling. That is also why, when we ask for clarification from the Department of Camp Schools, we also ask for clarification and clarification relating to the study trip activity of the last year of secondary school, for the tenth grade. There is particular reason to do so because it seems that the supervisory authorities are not interested in the type of journey at all. Things indicate that they are not aware that this is actually happening. A sample in a larger county targeted at a larger secondary school suggests that the supervisory authorities are completely uninterested in looking into this. Here it is that a bill is served to the parents without a discussion of well over NOK 2000 per day. Paragraph And it's clear that it seems exclusive to some of the students. Fortunately, in connection with written questions related to this particular issue, the Council of State has been very clear and precise in its answer that it will break the new provision of the Training Act in sections 2 to 15. So finally, in the last ten seconds, case number. 5th@item: inlistbox There's an overall committee here asking for a mapping. We then interpret this in such a way that there is some concern in the other parties as to whether the provisions of § 2-15 of the free principle are actually enforced, and we are pleased that we are getting a survey. I then refer to the motion put forward by the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e677	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e680	I am pleased that we have a training law that clearly states that primary school should be free of charge. It is stated in § 2-15: ‘Students are entitled to free public primary education. The municipality may not require students or parents to cover expenditure related to primary education, such as expenditure on educational material, school-time transport, camper-schooling, excursions or other trips that are part of primary school training.’» I'm actually proud that we have a training law that so clearly states that we're going to have a free elementary school in our country. What is it that asks questions about these things now? Well, I think some of the reason is that when parents are told that no, we don't actually have municipal funds to go to camp for, both parents and students and spirits try to be creative and find solutions to this. The same applies when one can no longer travel to the cultural event organised in the neighbouring village because one cannot afford transport. This is what is involved in creating creative solutions on the edge of the law. Therefore, I think it is great that a year ago we clarified the free principle and got the training law § 2-15 as I quoted earlier. So the problems arise because you have a municipal economy that doesn't give the municipalities and schools the room to run that education and that school offer, that camp school offer, those excursions, etc. as one from the curriculum, from pedagogical point of view, etc. wish to implement. The representative of Sortevik mentioned the municipality's proposal and talked about ringing. We are not supporters of earrings, but I would like the representatives in the Chamber to note that the central party in the municipal bill will bring a significant increase to the municipalities in the years to come. That's the solution to the problem, so that students and parents can see that the principle of a free primary school is something the Stortinget actually takes seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e694	There is broad agreement on all the good intentions behind the free principle in school. What we in the Left had hoped was to have a debate about the very enforcement of the free principle, not about the principle itself. I can only note that there were none of the other parties matured to take on a debate. I also notice that the party that has sometimes got the concept of “arrogant” attached to it seems to me that it is with humor that you meet the principles of other parties. I am basically very strong in the view of arrogance in relation to the governance of local democracy and the view of local democracy. I notice here little faith, there is none of the people elected from the other parties here who believe that their local elected representatives have managed to enforce the free principle. I think that's very interesting. I am absolutely certain that the local elected representatives of the Left had been able to enforce the principle of free in a proper and good way. There is nothing in the majority’s comments about the enforcement of the principle itself. We are going to follow developments in this regard, and are pleased that we have received a note in connection with my proposal, that we should follow developments. I don't know if the term 'dust' is a parliamentary term, so I might not use it, but sometimes the enforcement of this principle gets very strange effects locally. It's not about class tours and all that. What we've got above all a lot of feedback is about those who take things that usually cost money, other than school, like a motorbike driver's license, a tractor driver's license or a hunter's test, and who have now lost every opportunity to use the electoral situation to take the things that they have otherwise had to take on their leisure time. There are many strange effects that come when we're going to make a code in this house that will suit any conceivable situation at any conceivable school. Sometimes – I want to use that expression – a little strange local consequences when it comes to enforcement, when we're going to set up rules to work in every possible situation. What we in the Left were in the front line was that if we put this into enforcement for local democracy, which is actually going to give the money to the individual school, they would be able to get a enforcement that's related to it, and that's why we don't get the weird effects. In addition, this also shows little confidence in the ability of each school authority to do so. I just have a small comment to make to the representative Reikvam about the students who are left. My experience from schools -- I've been to an incredible number of hundreds of schools -- and from my time as a teacher, all the teachers who through the ages have never put the little envelope down in any sacks, because you knew that it wasn't so smart to put it. Locally, it has been a very smart enforcement process over time, because it has been a good knowledge of the individual’s situation. My experience, for example: from this city is that the big challenge today in terms of class tours is not exactly how much they cost, but that today we are, for example, have many Muslim girls who are never allowed to participate in class tours, because that is something they are not allowed to do from home. It's a completely different challenge in terms of having an integrated school where everyone gets the opportunity to join. Then finally to municipal poverty. I have seen no evidence that the parental payment until we set this principle, had had a dramatic increase, or that it had become worse and worse. I think it's very different from the municipality to the municipality. I think it's been enforced differently. I think there's a lot of wisdom locally, and we have to stop believing in this room that we alone have good intentions, that we are the only ones who can make rules that are fair and that we are the only ones who can get a fair distribution of resources in this society. But we're probably going to deal with this in a different context when people see that this is how this code should be enforced, both for it to be fair, and for it to provide wise solutions for the children, which will give all children equal opportunities to participate in things, regardless of what they have at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e712	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[Fotation, see page 2959]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e728	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2959]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e748	A short-term objective should be to enable the Norwegian health system to provide adequate treatment to all chronic pain patients. As I see it, it does not depend on the professional ability of our health care system to master it, but it stands on the will to do so, in the form of stronger priority for pain management and greater resource access both to specialist health care and to primary health services in the municipalities. For many years, the Progress Party has focused heavily on pain management, and has already promoted proposals for 40 million in 1990. kr to improve pain management in primary health care. The need for adequate pain management is still the worst met in municipalities and primary health services. This government can be credited for having done a lot in recent years before palliative medicine, where pain treatment is an important part of the treatment. One may well say that the pain treatment of cancer today is somewhat satisfactory in general, but there are also districts in the country where the availability of pain treatment for cancer patients is unacceptable. This is particularly the case in the primary health service. Although most university hospitals today have top expertise in pain treatment, there is too little research in the field, nor is it a priority task in most public hospitals. Greater interest in this subject could save many too much suffering and debilitating lives. Societal economics is adequate pain management good store. Some of the private pain clinics have acquired a high level of competence at international level, but have problems with reimbursement for such treatment, as few or none of the health care establishments have agreed on pain treatment with private clinics. The extent of patients who do not receive adequate pain management is difficult to estimate, but according to the Medical Association's investigation it turns out that half of the patients who consult a general practitioner do so because of pain in some form. It is well known that chronic pain patients are strongly recruited for disability. Unfortunately, patients who consult a doctor and complain about pain symptoms are not always taken seriously, and feel neglected in the Norwegian healthcare system. A special category of patients I think about in this context are patients with the diagnosis of neck length, on which Norway unfortunately does not have very good experts in neither diagnosis nor treatment. Need for pain treatment also has an economic side for the individual. Very many chronic pain patients have a very poor economy, as most of the drugs they consume have to be purchased on white prescription without reimbursement, and there may be quite large sums during a treatment year. For chronic pain patients, it is not uncommon for medical expenses to reach NOK 30000 per year. I would like to see the report from the Norwegian Medical Association go a little deeper into this problem, which imposes an additional financial burden on the patients. Chronic pain must be accepted as an independent diagnosis, and medical expenses must be treated in the same way as other chronic disorders that have reimbursement for their medications. In its study, the medical association has provided guidelines for pain treatment in Norway, which seem reasonable to a doctor, and where one adds to a treatment chain at different levels that it is worth noting. The aim of this interview is to get to know how the Minister of Health and the Ministry will deal with this report and what action might be taken on the basis of the report. The report should be a good example of how this service should be developed and practised, both at the general medical level and in the specialist health services of local hospitals and major hospitals. Adequate pain management needs to be given greater priority in the Norwegian health system, especially in the primary healthcare system, so that we can ensure that all those in need of pain relief can get it in their local environment. According to the report of the Norwegian Medical Association, this is far from the case in Norway today. Good and adequate pain management for the whole population is necessary to address the growing demand for active death care in Norway. In particular, it is important in this context to point out that the need for pain treatment in our elderly institutions is quite high but little priority. And it's unfortunately just from older sick people that we have a growing request for active death help. Pain treatment is life-help, and it is just life-help that the Norwegian health care system should provide. Life support provides better quality of life and strengthens the self-esteem of the individual to enable him to master a chronic pain diagnosis.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e771	The representative Alvheim refers to the Norwegian Medical Association’s recently prepared ‘Guidelines for pain treatment in Norway’. Let me first begin by stating that I fully share the commitment that lies behind Alvheim's interpellation, and that is also behind the important work of the Medical Association. In the report, the selection of the Medical Association believes that patients with problematic pain are a low priority in Norwegian healthcare. Pain treatment is a subject area how much has been done, but where we may not have come far enough in relation to what we would like. With this recognition, I will describe how pain treatment is currently being provided in healthcare, and what challenges we face in the future. Pain treatment is organised as a long-term care service, both in the primary health service and in the specialist health service. We have had pain clinics both in some local hospitals and in several university hospitals. The pain clinics work interdisciplinaryly with all kinds of problematic pain, such as cancer pain, chronic and acute pain, for example. after surgery and palliative treatment. For the financing of pain relief, palliative treatment and treatment of other problematic pain can be distinguished. For palliative treatment, it is important that the offer must be made at the level of healthcare considered appropriate. In the NOU 1999:2, the Life Aid Committee stressed that, at the patient’s request, provision should be made as far as possible to provide the necessary services at home or close to home. Against this background, financial instruments are in place to support palliative treatment both in the primary health service and in the specialist health service. From 2002 onwards, we have introduced a earmarked grant scheme that stimulates the establishment of palliative measures and projects in the primary health service. In 2004 it was granted 15 million. kr for the continuation of such projects. In addition, reimbursement is provided for palliative treatment in specialist healthcare through the ISF system. For 2004, this appropriation is of 20 million. kr. Funds for the development of interventions were allocated to actions both in the primary and specialist health services last year. Examples of actions that received funds last year are Akershus University Hospital’s further development of the so-called Rome model, the establishment and operation of palliative units by the municipalities of Askim and Sarpsborg’s corresponding project at Tingvoll’s hospital. Regional centres of competence for palliative treatment have also been established in each of the health regions through the National Cancer Plan. It was granted 50 million. The setting-up of these centres of excellence between 1998 and 2003 and the operation of centres of excellence is now continuing within the framework of regional health establishments. An organisation has been set up at these centres to ensure the transfer of competence to the primary health service and other hospitals in the health region, i.e. a decentralised model, in accordance with the recognition also expressed by the representative Alvheim in his statement. Since 2002, 1 million has also been added. kr to each of the regional health establishments for the relief of patients who do not have cancer. In the case of other problematic pain, there are currently no earmarked supplements or special ISF reimbursements. The funding of pain treatment lies within the ISF and DRG systems. The basis for the DRG codes is that all aspects of the treatment, including pain management, are preserved and numerically fixed. However, individual tariffs for outpatient pain treatment have been established. In the case of revmatology, the rate of behavioural therapeutic conversation is present in the pain management. There is also a price for pain relief in the home or other institution, e.g. hospital or local hospital. In anaesthesiology, there are also separate pain treatment tariffs and for control/block investigation as part of a series for patients with chronic pain. The responsibility of regional health enterprises means that they must have a clear analysis of their own supply and the needs of the population in the different disciplines. Regional health establishments shall themselves give the necessary priority within the resources made available and therefore have a clear responsibility for pain treatment in their own health region. This ensures that responsibility is financed through the basic allocation of the regional health undertaking and shall enable the regions to carry out their activities and fulfil their responsibilities under the Health Business Act. The resource use and efforts of regional health enterprises shall be in line with national health policy objectives and priorities. This year's governance document for regional health enterprises underlines the need for a clearer prioritisation of, inter alia: relieving treatment. As regards cancer treatment and care, this is also mentioned in the year’s management document. Medical advances in pain management and symptom control have led to the recovery of pain and distress for which there was no previous relief. That's good news for the patients. As pain treatment offers have become known, demand has also increased. There has been a strong growing focus in recent years on palliative treatment of patients in the final phase of life, and through the increased focus on hospice and improved interaction between primary health care and specialist health care, I think we are on the right track to meet these patients' particular needs. Pain clinics alone do not solve the problem for patients with problematic pain. It is about the competence of the individual specialist to benefit the patient. It is a management responsibility to facilitate the best treatment of patients with chronic pain. In the governance papers of regional health companies, we have called for individual plans. A good individual level, access to specialists with pain management skills and good cooperation between first- and second-line services will contribute to a better individual follow-up of pain patients. A review of waiting times in relation to pain treatment in Norwegian hospitals shows that these waiting times vary, but they are constantly too long. It is clear to me that, in the light of their responsibilities, regional health businesses should give higher priority to pain reduction, in view of the fact that, in some other areas, overcapacity in the service is available. It also suggests that there should be room for such a higher priority in this area. Let me conclude by saying that I fully share the perspective of the interpellant on this important topic. The primary and primary task of health care is to provide life support: it is to heal where possible. It is to relieve and provide care where healing is not possible, not least in relation to pain. Because the knowledge of how to relieve has become much better in recent years, is a very important part of life support to provide good pain management. I also think that is one of the most important answers to how to cope with the progress towards active death aid demands that are raised from time to time in the public debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e807	I thank you for the answer, and I am pleased to note that I and the Minister of Health have a somewhat similar view of this problem, which, for many, is really a very big problem, which leads to a lot of suffering. I am pleased that the governance document also contains instructions for regional health companies that this is a task that should not be neglected, but on the contrary. As an additional question, I could therefore imagine asking the Minister for Health: if this is a caring responsibility for health businesses and you have private pain clinics that can address a lot of these problems, why haven't regional health companies set up more agreements with these special pain clinics, of which fortunately there are more? If patients are going to pay the full cost, very few patients are going to do this. The other thing that I draw from the Minister of Health's answer and my main post is that I think we have to do something about the pain treatment of older sick people in our public institutions. Sometimes when you're inside these hospitals, I think it's pointless and quite sad to see that we have bedside and wheelchair-sitting patients who really have pain problems, and who don't get the help they should have at my discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e821	I believe that the strategy that has been put in place in recent years to build up the competence of centres of expertise in regional hospitals and in hospitals for the rest is right, also in terms of strengthening the competence and the provision of pain relief in primary health services, which the representative Alvheim is now focusing on. Making sure you have good environments of competence regionally capable of disseminating your skills, which can help build it in the primary health service, and not least in the nursing and care services, I still think it's the way to go. In this respect, I would like to point out the need to strengthen the interaction between the first and second line services in general and in this area in particular. There is some background for the Government to bring down the so-called Wisløff Committee, which will investigate during this year how to achieve a better interaction between the two levels of service. In my view, the next major reform of healthcare is to get a larger whole between the first and second line services. An important part of the responsibilities of the second line service is to guide the first line, and there is a need in this area. With regard to the representative Alvheim's first question, about an agreement with private people, I am not in a position to give a complete overview of this here and now. However, I can say that in general, it should be that where unmet needs have been identified within the scope of responsibility and the regional health company cannot cover this within the capacity and resources available in its own hospitals, it is clearly expected that it will seek to cover this through private contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e830	My impression is that pain as a symptom is one of the main causes of people looking for health care to ask for help in some form. These may be debilitating disorders. It can be anything from a sore throat, a sprain of an ankle, back pain and toothache to the severe conditions with a cancer that debuts in the form of pain. The impression you can still have is that the health care system is well equipped to deal with pain conditions that can be defined and that have an organic cause, where you know that the pain comes from an organ and you find good drugs to treat it. However, it is far more difficult to treat the pain that is not entirely known and that is often complex and can perhaps be defined as something quite different from organic pain – a form of life pain. I registered a few years ago that the author Axel Jensen, who had then received amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, indicated that he wanted active death aid because he was in a state where he saw that life was about to ebb out. I was actually quite confident that that would be Axel Jensen's wish. Then I registered that the last years he lived were some of the most active he had — from the sickbed say. There he could describe a life of new meaning that he could participate in public debates. He could also give a meaningful description of his life with the help that his wife and health professionals could give him, and that gave valuable insight into how to help people in a sensible way, not to die, but to get both a dignified, sensible and decent life in the final phase of life. It did, of course, that Axel Jensen's life gave a meaning perhaps far beyond what he had before, and I would believe – without ever having met him or talked to him – that he must also have reflected on his first wish when it came to the end, before he finally died. And if there's one thing I'm happy about today's interpellation, it's that the interpellant so strongly expresses that you have to find alternatives to actively helping someone to die: active help to live a good, decent, sensible life even when life contains pain that you need help to get treated. One of the most important things you can give people is an experience of being taken seriously with the problems you have, being met in a proper, proper way person to person. You have to show respect for a person with an equivalency in relation to what you have. You'll never be able to do that if you stand up instead to judge your life and take an active part in making sure that it ends. If we also have a resource effort at the nursing homes, as the interpellant mentions, in the form of good care activities, well with nursing staff who receive a reasonable education, it should be possible to meet those needs in such a way that people also die in a dignified and respectful way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e841	The representative Alvheim addresses an important topic. The focus on pain treatment is linked to increasing knowledge in this area. It is now known that infants born prematurely also feel pain. The feeling of pain is different from human to human. The threshold of how much pain you feel is also different. From this point on, the definition of pain has arisen. The Medical Association's guidelines, to which the representative Alvheim refers, say: ‘ Pain is an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience as a result of actual or potential tissue damage. Pain is always subjective.» The Christian People's Party agrees that more knowledge and training is needed in this area. In particular, I want to point to pain in a cultural perspective. There are examples of some of our new farmers being mistreated because mental disorders in some cultures manifest themselves as physical pain. Pain is not fatal, but results in poor quality of life and can be debilitating. The Medical Association believes that patients with problematic pain are still a low priority in Norwegian healthcare, despite being major users of healthcare. Fortunately, there is a light point. An increasing number of hospitals are creating pain clinics that often have a multidisciplinary team of doctors, physiotherapists and psychologists. The team investigates, treats and provides guidance to the entire region. Many patients have reduced their pain experience by means of these. They have been given an acceptable explanation of the pain without leading to anxiety, fear or unrealistic expectations. Many learn to use their own resources, and they work better in everyday life. Even drug consumption is being reduced! In the member GLIMT for chronic pain patients, you can read about good experience in pain management courses. These are held in cooperation with the learning and mastering centres, where expertise and user involvement are treated as equivalent. Relieving treatment has been an important ideological issue for the Christian People's Party. For us, it has been important to create the counterweight to active death help. We have been actively focusing on palliative treatment for patients in the final phase of life. Several palliative treatment sites have been established, including in the first-line service. It's very important for these patients to be close to their closest in this life phase. It is important that the Minister of Health in the governance documents of health companies continues to give priority to alleviating treatment. Competence centres for palliative treatment have been established in all health regions through the National Cancer Plan. The Christian People's Party sees it as very important that the competences built up here be passed on to primary health services, for the benefit of patients who struggle with pain.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e870	Pain treatment is a very important area of healthcare. It is important that all pain patients are adequately treated, whether they are in specialist health care or in primary health care. It is clear from what has been said so far in this debate that it is in the primary health service that it is perhaps the most lacking in supply and competence. Another side of this is the costs of chronic pain patients. There's often a lot of economic stress next to the pain load. When the Minister of Health now says that there is a better medical offer and better medicine available for pain treatment, it is joyous. But then we also have to look at how this can be made available to patients through financial measures that allow pain patients to use these drugs. There are now systems, including: within the ISF scheme, in the case of palliative treatment in the specialist health service. There are price-priced trials and models within the primary health service. It is important to obtain funding for this which makes pain treatment available to all. It is also important that health businesses give priority to key priorities. I noticed the bit of indexation that was up on the part of the Minister of Health in relation to the priorities of health companies, and I think it is good if he can intensify this somewhat. It is important that we get individual plans in pain management, and that we have a specialist competence in specialist health services, a competence that can flow to primary health services through a cooperation between specialist health services and primary health services. This is very important if you are to be able to provide adequate treatment locally, in your own home or at local institutions. I am also concerned with geriatrics and pain management, that you can find a pain treatment for older sick people that allows you to relieve the pain without relieving the patient more than necessary. That, I think, gives a worthy life juice, which many people do not experience today, by the fact that pain treatment is not present or is done in the wrong way. Providing life support by healing and by relieving is one of the most important tasks of health care, as the Minister of Health was also involved. I also want to underline this, and add that this is one of the most important elements to counteract demands for active death aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e885	The conclusion of this debate is, as I see it, that both the Minister of Health, the Department and the central political environment in this house are concerned with good pain management and are positive about the developments that have occurred, especially in palliative medicine, and are also trying to do something for those patients who are in pain but have no diagnosis beyond that, and that more attention must be paid to that problem. I am also very pleased that no one in this debate has suggested that we discuss whether or not the Norwegian health system should provide active death help. Here we agree that there is no task for the Norwegian health service. Then I will refer you to the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo. The diffuse pain patients with whom no organic cause of pain can be found must not be ridiculed, but taken seriously in the health care system, because they are really sick and have problems. They have not yet been given priority, but feel bored in connection with the Norwegian healthcare system and the treatment they are seeking. All in all, I think the debate has been fruitful. It helps to prioritize pain management, which affects quite a few hundred thousand people in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e896	In conclusion, let me just briefly agree with the summing points of view that the interpellant made known. There are two important elements in this debate that make it politically important. One is the consensus expressed on the importance of continuing to raise and prioritize pain management, development of pain relief skills and availability of such treatment in relation to different groups of people with problematic pain. The second is the clear marking expressed by those who have had the word in relation to active death aid. A cry for active death aid is always a cry for help, but there is not necessarily a cry for death aid, which the representative Ballo with his intervention helped to underline. I think it is absolutely essential that there is a political will to provide help when called for help — yes, preferably before calling for help — in relation to this group. I think that is the most important political womanness of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e906	Then the interpellation debate in case No. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e924	The Progress Party has, over a number of years, made various proposals for the introduction of a social security funding scheme for the treatment of patients with periodontitis. The great picture in this case came in connection with the examination of Document No. 8:66 for 1999-2000, from the representatives of Øystein Hedstrøm, John I. Alvheim and signed a social security funding scheme for patients suffering from rapid or severe periodontitis. During the examination of this proposal, the following proposals were put forward by a unanimous committee at the end of the year. S. No 194 for 2000-2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for social security funding for patients suffering from periodontitis in the context of the 2002 State budget.’ The proposers could thus find that a long struggle finally seemed to find its solution. In the context of the 2002 State Budget, the Government followed up with a start-up grant for social security contributions for periodontite patients, effective from 1 May 2002. This has gradually increased in recent years’ government budgets. But with respect to reporting, one must well note that things take time. In particular, the issue of dental rehabilitation and implant treatment now has to be said to be the major challenge in the future. For the current year's budget, 50 million are set aside. to a new reimbursement scheme for the rehabilitation of dental kits with marginal periodontite. This scheme is governed by the provisions of Sections 5 to 6 of the People's Security Act and applies to treatment carried out outside hospitals, i.e. by private dental practitioners, county dental services or the Odontological faculty. According to the revised national budget for the current year, currently under consideration in the Financial Committee, it: ‘The main part of the new reimbursement scheme covers expenditure on conventional protection [[prosthesis and bridges attached to remaining teeth]] In the current regulation in this area, which is the previously mentioned section 5-6, and which was last amended on 29 January 2004, it says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The prosthetic treatment shall be carried out by a dental practitioner with special training in prosthetics or equivalent training. State health surveillance determines whether current training is considered equivalent to special training in the field of protection.» It is widely known that there is a great shortage of dental practitioners who possess the special competence referred to here in order to be able to carry out this type of treatment on behalf of the social security system. In particular, there is reason to highlight the fact that if patients in the districts are also to be able to enjoy the same rights as persons in more central areas, i.e. mainly around the largest cities, where this competence exists today, travel costs in many cases will be very high. This is in that case money that would be much better used if they could have gone to the real treatment of patients. There is a great lack of both oral surgeons and prosthetics on a national basis. It is not realistic to believe that a person anywhere in our long-term country should be able to make an optimal and good offer without having to travel for a certain period of time. But from there to what will be the current situation with special skill requirements, the distance is very large. A competent dentist is likely to be available within the reach of this type of treatment in relatively central strokes, such as: in most urban regions. It must be a task for society to facilitate the availability of such treatment in the community environment. The question that an automatic person wants to ask is, of course, how do we do this without compromising the quality of the treatment given to patients. In the opinion of the undersigned, this can only be solved by allowing general practitioners to acquire such competence where it does not already exist as a result of the fact that many have, in fact, for a year and on their own initiative, provided for training in this field through the possibilities available. It has been raised beyond any doubt that, among implanted dentists on a national basis, there is a very high level of competence today. These dentists take this form of treatment very seriously and work within the framework of the Law on Dental Competences and Knowledge. It is also strange that the same dentists who are not allowed to perform implant treatment for the benefit have the full opportunity to do this type of business as long as the patient pays for it himself. In other words, it seems that it is not the competence you ask questions about, but what the public should cover, and to which dentists. There is also reason to believe that much of the background to the extremely strict requirements of special competence laid down in the regulation of paragraphs 5 to 6, is due to the scandal surrounding the treatment of a dentist – in Haugesund, if I do not remember correctly – a few years ago. If the current regulation is maintained, there is reason to believe that this could lead to treatment interruptions as a result of referral to oral surgeon protectors. This could result in a delay in processing and in the powdering of responsibilities. Nor does it state anything in the regulation as to who is responsible for the follow-up responsibility for the treatment carried out by them. I hope that the Council of State will take an initiative to amend the current regulation so that not only dental practitioners with special competence can perform implant treatment, but also general practitioners who have relevant real-time skills with subsequent training and competence building in this field will be able to carry out treatment, for the benefit of patients and social security. In this context, there may be grounds for contact with, for example: The Dental Association to facilitate a proper course layout and regular review and evaluation of e.g. by a certain number of cases in order to ensure that the person who performs this treatment among general practitioners will in the future have the qualifications to be obtained, and not least do the job according to current practice and with due diligence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e965	Interpellation concerns the new rules on social security for oral rehabilitation for patients who have lost teeth due to periodontitis. Before answering the representative’s question about competence requirements, I would like to comment on the opinions that form the basis for the question. The representative Nesvik refers to information from performers that the legislation has been amended several times in the last year, while the social security interprets the legislation very squarely. The regulatory and reimbursement tariffs for oral rehabilitation entered into force on 1 October 2003. The rules and tariffs are unchanged after entry into force, with the exception of some minor adjustments which entered into force on 1 January of this year. The adjustments were made on the basis of enquiries from both dentists and patients. The purpose of the adjustments was to make the rules easier for dentists and social security to practice, and to make it easier for patients to understand. In addition, the Ministry saw the need to make additional comments on the individual provisions of the new legislation. Both the adjustments to the rules and additional comments on the rules were communicated to national dentists and to the social security system in circulars issued by the Ministry of Health on 15 December last year. The Ministry is in constant contact with the Rikstrygdenverket on the management of the new reimbursement scheme. It is our clear impression that the department's adjustments and supplementary remarks have made clear to those who are going to apply the legislation and tariffs in their daily work. When it is claimed that the social security interprets the rule square, it is difficult to comment without concrete examples. The social security scheme shall assess the existence of the conditions for reimbursement and pay reimbursements at the applicable rates. Several of the conditions do not allow for discretionary exercise. As regards the conditions under which discretion may be exercised, the Ministry has reviewed them with the National Works and the social security counsellors, by 12 May at the latest. The Ministry has considered it important to communicate the purpose of the Grand Duchy with the reimbursement scheme as a basis for the exercise of discretion in the social security system. In the case of competence requirements for dental practitioners to operate in the jaws and dental practitioners to perform prosthetic rehabilitation on the implants respectively, this is a requirement laid down by the Ministry in 1993. The requirement of competence is set out in the Regulation and applies to cases where implant treatment and implant-based prosthetic rehabilitation are carried out with total or partial coverage of the social security, or are carried out out out out out-of-patiently in hospitals. The competence requirement is maintained in the applicable legislation. This is justified by the fact that we want to ensure the quality of such complex treatment carried out at the expense of the social security. Similarly, the same regulation requires that orthodontic treatment, i.e. dental regulation, can only be carried out by dental practitioners with specialist training in orthodontics where the social security provider provides benefits. In the context of the introduction of the new rules, the Rikstrygdeverket has investigated the possible extent of persons who may need implantation with prosthetic rehabilitation on an annual basis due to the loss of teeth due to periodontitis. The estimates suggest that there may be some national coverage. 800 patients. The Ministry has also assessed the capacity question of dental practitioners meeting the competence requirements. Such treatment requires cooperation between surgeons and prosthetics. An overview from the Norwegian Dental Association from 2003 shows that there are about 45 dentists with special training in prosthetics and about. 45 specialists in oral surgery and oral medicine or jaw surgery in Norway. This involves approx. 15–20 of the patients concerned per year. years per year. specialist. In the Ministry's view, it is not necessarily the number of specialists, but the geographical distribution of the special competence which may entail travel expenses for patients. The government has therefore proposed to the Stortinget in the revised 2004 national budget that implant treatment for these new patient groups can also be carried out out out out-of-patiently in hospitals with the same proportions for patients from 1 July this year. This will give – if the Storting agrees – a much better geographical availability to the surgical implant treatment. The patient's travel expenses for the treatment of dental practitioners where the treatment costs are to be covered by the law on social security will be covered by the regional health company with a special allowance for the patient of DKK 100 each way. In the preparation of the legislation in the autumn of 2003, the Ministry also assessed the competence requirements for dental practitioners. We received several recordings, but the proposals expressed considerable disagreement about this in the trade unions. In October 2003, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health commissioned the Directorate-General for Social Affairs to evaluate the proposals made with a view to making a recommendation to the Ministry. In the context of the evaluation, the Directorate obtains opinions from the odontological faculties of the universities of Oslo and Bergen. I expect the department to receive the directorate's recommendations in this matter during the autumn of 2004. My final response to the representative Nesvik is therefore: Yes, I would like to assess this, but I would like to await the recommendations of the Social and Health Directorate before taking a final decision on any changes to the legislation regarding the above-mentioned competence requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e986	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and at least I was very pleased with the conclusion. The introduction can be a disagreement, and then we'll see where we're going from there. But the most important thing about travelling this interpellation is precisely what goes on the requirement of competence, and how best to gain access to competences also in the districts and not just where we currently have the special competence, namely in and around the big cities. It is primarily Oslo, Bergen, perhaps Trondheim, who holds the best offer per. today. I look forward to the council getting the sample's work on the table and can start looking at this, because there's actually a problem out there that a person has low coverage in the districts in this field. In this connection, it will be natural, and I hope the Council of State will do so, to contact, among other things. with the Dental Association to look at, for example: build-up of competences in this field, so that, I was saying, you can use positive instruments instead of using the regulations very rigorously and rigidly. But I am pleased with the answer, and look forward to the debate that is now coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e993	Mr Dagfinn Høybråten wishes to speak later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e996	Thanks to a long-standing struggle on the part of the Advance Party with proposals back to the early 1990s, and subsequently with the support of other parties, it has been possible to gain an increased understanding of increased grants to the dental area even in adult dentistry. The main example here is the introduction of a social security pension scheme for the treatment and rehabilitation of gum disease. We have been given the impression that diseases in the oral cavity need to be more likened to other diseases. You're on the verge of helping these patient groups for a much better life. It's a pleasure. If the new reimbursement scheme for the rehabilitation of periopatients is to be joyous and not disappointing, a sufficient number of dental practitioners must be available with the necessary competence to carry out this treatment. If it is to be possible to perform rehab in the form of implants of periodontally damaged dental kits only by specialists in oral surgery, jaw surgery and specialised prosthetics, we will have an imbalance between treatment demand and treatment provision. What we must bear in mind is that these groups of professionals have a very heavy workload from before, and that will lead to queues. Furthermore, patients from North and Middle Norway must be considered as likely to have to travel to the Oslo and Bergen areas in order to receive this treatment. The Party understands that the granting authorities wish to ensure that patients receive professionally sound treatment. In Chapter 2, Section 4 of the Health Care Act, the mandatory wording is as follows: ‘Health professionals shall carry out their work in accordance with the requirements of professional care and care that can be expected from the qualifications of health professionals, the nature of the work and the situation of other persons.’;» There are currently a significant number of dentists who have practiced surgical and prosthetic implant treatment for many years and with very good results. They have a significant level of real competence and have good geographical distribution, but are without formal surgical competence. We've had a development where you're more likely to accept that real-world competence is being given priority. Therefore, our health authorities should consider opening dental practitioners with extensive experience in this field to carry out this treatment on that patient group and that this is covered by the social security system. Of course, there is also an opportunity to go further in order to ensure the quality of implant treatment for dental practitioners with real skills. One way may be to require the submission of a number of completed cases and a procedural documentation based on documentation requirements prepared by the Authority. Now, the Council of State, and it's a pleasure, has gone in to assess the competence requirement. I expect that the social fraction of the Advance Party and the party will follow that development with the argus eyes, and we expect that there will be a good solution, so that we can reduce the treatment queues.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1007	In the case of dental care, there are in particular two aspects that SV has been concerned with. One is that they are partly very high in dental treatment, which can lead to that a good part simply cannot afford to fix their teeth. The second is the quality of service performed. In the case of prostheses, I agree with the interpellant and Hedstrøm that a piece of work has been done with a reimbursement scheme linked up to periodontite, which I know well, since I was the case rapporteur when it was adopted. SV has been concerned that you should have a full review of the entire dental field in view of a dental reform that addresses both parts, i.e. both reducing the excess weights of dental treatment and ensuring the quality of the service by getting a better distribution of dentists around the country. We have also talked about a combination of public dentistry and private dental practice. I have registered that the department is now working along guidelines that are not different from those we outlined in the dental proposal that was submitted in the previous period. As for the treatment we're talking about here, Hedstrom certainly has far more insight into it than most of us, since he's a dentist himself. However, the argument here should be similar to what it is within the health system, namely that conditions that are commonly seen should be treated near where the individual lives. If there are more rare conditions, which require a higher level of competence, quality requirements need to be reinforced and less likely to carry out treatment. In relation to what the Council of State describes, that is to say that one should have a volume of this type of service on approx. 800 on a yearly basis, from SV's point of view, it doesn't seem very reasonable to argue that, in general, when you're a dentist, you should be able to do that kind of dental treatment. To ensure the quality, it looks like it's a reasonable argument that not everyone should be able to do that treatment, but that one should have special competence to do it. If the hospital can perform the service, e.g. At the same time, oral surgeons, and a refund system is in place that is also valid there, can ensure the necessary geographical proximity to the 800 who should have that need on an annual basis, to carry out the service. But also SV will follow up this case, because it is a step in the right direction in relation to the view we have that dental health and health over time should be compensated, and that you should have reimbursement schemes for dental health in line with what you currently have for the treatment of other health problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1016	It is important that complex dental treatment is available to most people in the country, geographically speaking, and also in relation to the economy in such a way that the excess is affordable. I understand that the Council of State will await a recommendation from its professional website before proceeding with the possible approval of the practitioners who are to perform complex dental treatments. The interpellant is also satisfied with the answer he received, so that's fine. It is important that treatment is professionally sound, but it is also important that it is available in relation to geography and economy. I also want to discuss a different relationship, adult dentistry and oral rehabilitation, in particular dental filling material and problems with it, for example. refurbishment of tooth filling material. It is also important that one has competence and decentralised availability, and that it is made economically affordable to clean up such dental filling material. Medical follow-up on side effects is important, and complaints based on oral cavity and teeth, leading to medical complaints beyond this, must be followed up better than we have so far in Norway, I think. It is important that the disease in the oral cavity is assessed in line with other diseases, including in relation to legislation, rights, and then in relation to availability, the economy and the reimbursement system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1027	This has not been the long debate, but I hope that the interest in the dental field is greater – I kept saying – than the number of participants in the debate. At least we get hope for that, and so do I. It will also be interesting to see the results of the sample to look at the level of competence. I hope and believe, of course, that the Storting will be properly informed about what is going on in this regard. I look forward to that. I think it's also been a mix-up of different issues. The representative, Ballo, was about to give dental practitioners the general opportunity to perform this treatment. No, that's not what you're talking about. You talk about dentists who have developed a real competence in the field, among other things. through many years of practice, many years of training and follow-up in this field. It's not about dentists in general, but about those who have already gained real competence in the field. There's also reason to note that as long as you don't do this for the sake of social security, you can do it for the patients, because it has nothing to do with the care of the patients. This matter is about who is the social security to pay for the rehabilitation piece. There are a lot of general practitioners who, over the years, have developed a very high level of real competence in this field, and carried out a number of these rehabilitations in the past, and who now, if this regulation remains, may lose the right to perform the treatment for the sake of the social security, and have, to a large extent, already lost the right. It is important to assess this quickly and get back to it so that you can get a better scale and a greater scale. Then it's shown that it's approx. 800 cases. The problem is that as long as we have the number and the concentration of people who can do it for the sake of social security, there are 800 people who get significant travel distances, which means significant costs for social security or for the health business, which is now the one who gets the bill when you go to the hospital for treatment. So this is going to be a high cost to society. It's going to be interesting to see what comes out of this, and I hope that when the Minister of Health gets on the table of the selection, he'll quickly look at this, precisely because there are a lot of dentists who have a high level of real competence, and who will do a very good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1040	I can confirm, on questions from the interpellant, that I will properly inform the Storting about the outcome of the assessment that the Social and Health Directorate is now making of proposals that have been made in relation to the competence requirements of dental practitioners. I can also confirm that that assessment will be carried out in consultation with the professional community. It is necessary that any change in this area should have sufficient coverage in these environments, and I assume that this is provided by the Directorate. So both the representative Hedstrøm and the representative Ballo have had a slightly broader perspective, and the interpellant also called for the broad commitment to dental policy. I can assure you that I have that commitment as a dental minister. There are clearly historical reasons why in Norway we have a perspective on public engagement in dental care that is different from what we have in relation to our body. This is also one of the main questions raised by the Seierstad Committee, which the Government for a time has been set up, and which goes through the entire dental field in line with the intentions expressed by the representative Ballo, where he also referred to an interpellant debate in the previous period on these questions. We will now have that investigation, and it will also be properly submitted to Stortinget when the Government has taken a decision on it. I therefore believe that we have a basis for dealing with the specific problem that has been raised in the interpellation, which is essentially about that core issue, i.e. the relationship between quality, availability and capacity in this important area. We will also have a basis for the broader discussion on dental policy in this country, which I fully agree that there is now a need to look at in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1051	That is the examination of case No. Eight is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1069	The Church Army in Bergen characterised the situation of the country's churches as follows: ‘In general, Norwegian churches are dangerous near a disaster, but the maturity is not as strong everywhere.’ It was in the Official Journal of Bergen on 26 April this year. These are strong words. The country's church building plays a major role for most people, both for those who are active in the churches, and for all of us. They play a role far beyond being God's house. I would like to pay tribute to the Council of Churches for taking up this debate. It's still nice to see that most parties also show commitment and concern for the Church's economy. Church buildings are of great value to Norway as a nation. The church is a place where many mark the great festivals of their lives. Church buildings that are not used by the congregation can be used and used as cultural houses. Not least, the country's church building represents a large national cultural tax, and this maintenance is a shared responsibility. This is a vision I believe the Storting shares, and perhaps already reflects through today's debate. It is a fact that many of the country's churches are in poor condition, and that there is a aftermath in the rioting of a number of churches. It is today that the municipality is responsible for the maintenance of the churches. Politicians have been arguing about the reasons for lack of maintenance for many years. In the meantime, church buildings fall due. There is therefore a need to look at the division of responsibilities between the State, the municipality and the community, in order to avoid further deterioration of church buildings. That is why I have asked for a statement from the Minister of the Church on this matter. I also believe that there is a need for a national plan to upgrade and maintain the country's churches. As I understand it, the Church's Employers' Organisation is working on a database that describes all the churches of the country. That's very good. Such a database may provide us with an overview of where there is a greatest need for upgrading, costs and the basis for such an action plan. It has been claimed that the price tag to improve the maintenance of our churches is between 6 and 10 billion kroner. Minister of Church Valgerd Reply City Haugland can probably tell you more exactly about the need. I agree with the Minister of the Church, who has said in the past that it is important to find out what is going on in order to take responsibility for Norwegian church buildings. «Pension can cause church death» was one characteristic of the church building situation. I strongly disagree with the Ministry of the Church that the solution is to open up to tear up churches because there are too high maintenance costs, and because there are too many churches. Another reason is that many churches are not used because the population structure has changed and that some churches do not have members. In my opinion, this is to mix two debates – one that we need to find a solution to the upgrading and maintenance of our churches, the other question of whether there are too many churches in Norway. Let's have one debate at a time. I have previously mentioned the discussion about reasons. Maintaining churches is not the responsibility of the state today. Poor municipal economy can lead to church buildings being swept away. Many municipal politicians experience a strenuous economic situation and have to make choices between different legal purposes. I would like to stress most strongly that I believe that there is a wrong starting point for the church building debate that the solution is to tear down churches because of excessive maintenance costs. Perhaps we should take a closer look at the division of labour between state and municipality. A number of municipalities have requested assistance in taking responsibility for maintenance. One example here is Bergen, who has 32 of the country's 1,620 churches. The mountains include three medieval churches. Perhaps the State should assume a greater financial responsibility for church buildings that are of cultural historical value. We cannot risk the decay of older church buildings because the municipalities have poor advice. I agree that it seems very strange that a rich country like Norway is unable to maintain church buildings. Norway does not have many historical construction works, so the threshold for demolition should be very high. We owe those who in their time took responsibility and built the old churches, to care for these buildings. Many of our church buildings were created at a time when the country was poor. But despite this, it was advisable to build churches that today represent the highest of local craft traditions. We must not allow history from 1851 to repeat itself, when there was a new law on churches and cemeteries, which led to the demolition of many stave churches. The Minister of the Church has previously stated that the protection and protection of church buildings is part of a discussion of cultural memory protection. For a while back, a large national conference was held in Narvik about the decay of the church – then I am talking about the buildings – where all the parties were represented. One of the conclusions of this meeting was the agreement to assess interest-free loans for the maintenance of churches. This is good. A status report by the Property Management Committee, which is to go through municipal and county property management, shows that the main reason why municipal construction is not maintained is that politicians do not give priority to it. Another conclusion is that small municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants have better care for church buildings than larger municipalities. I believe once again that priority is about the local authorities' framework conditions, and that there is no deliberate policy behind this. I believe, however, that we must also have a solution to the question of how to maintain the building of older vintages and of cultural historical value. Riksantikvar Nils Marstein points out that some churches have particular antiquarian value. Of the country's 1,620 churches, 220 are at peace. 760 declared protective. I hope that we can discuss a possible solution for these churches is to let the state take responsibility for the maintenance. We must have a discussion about it, at least about the churches that are at peace. The Workers' Party has previously made proposals to improve the Church's economy, so that building responsibilities can also be met. The proposals include, inter alia: used the income from the Information Society's fund for the same borrowing scheme as for school buildings. We have specifically proposed two different solutions. What is noticeable in today's situation, as I see it, is that there are no proposals from the Government, which I miss to solve the problem of the maintenance and upgrading of churches in addition to the proposal to tear them down. The Minister of the Church and the Minister of the Municipal Council have, as I understand it, sent out a letter to the municipalities that the care of church buildings is important. It is good, and it is good with such reminders, but this does not lead to a changed framework situation for municipalities. I am very excited about today's debate and hope that we can discuss various proposals that can serve as good solutions when we are going to attend to our church buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1112	In recent times, there have been many look-ups and many comments about our church buildings. The starting point for the discussion is that many of the churches are in poor condition as a result of lack of maintenance over many years. In connection with this, a debate has also been held on the demolition or closure of churches, and it has been shown that the department has opened for demolition – as the interpellant also said in his article. During Question Time in Stortinget on 26 May this year, I answered a question about the demolition or closure of churches and about alternative use of churches. In my answer I pointed out that in this debate we might get the impression that a number of churches are now involved in decommissioning or demolition. But that's not the case. Nor is it the case that the ministry will take the initiative in setting up churches. I would like to make this quite clear at the beginning of the debate, so that we do not misunderstand that I or the Government have a desire to put down or tear down churches. In the public discussion we've had about church buildings lately, I've had a strong commitment both as a participant and as an accomplice, not only among politicians, but at least as much among the people most. Strong feelings emerge if a church is threatened, as we also saw during the church fires in the 1990s. The same happened last year when there were questions about the closure of churches as a result of economic saving measures. And the same commitment appears in the debate now on the protection of churches from decay. People care about their churches. Both as Minister of Culture and as Minister of the Church, I am pleased with this commitment. The cultural aspect is not difficult to see. Most of our 1,600 churches are important cultural memories. Some of them are actually among our most important. The same can be said of church art and the interior of churches, which represent great treasures of art and culture. Church and church art are thus a central source of understanding of Norwegian cultural history, of Norwegian craft traditions, of building style and style history. The churches are, besides, the most living cultural memory. Today, as 200 or 800 years ago, they still have a role as a church and as a place of worship for the church sound. I think the commitment to protecting the churches is also about protecting something larger than the construction itself. Among other things, I believe the commitment tells us that the churches are perceived by most people as direct and central expression of our Christian cultural heritage. The churches are too many a strong symbol of our cultural identity as people and nation. Interpellation has a background in the fact that many churches are in poor condition. We know that the refurbishment needs of the churches are estimated at several billion dollars. The situation gives cause for concern. Just like the interpellant, I'm busy finding a dangerous way out of this situation. In the discussion on how to secure the churches, it is important, in my opinion, to think that it is the community that has had the task of building, maintaining and managing them from an old age. This has so far been a fundamental and self-evident task for the community. Church law from 1996, which places the responsibility of this field directly on church sounds and municipalities, continues an old system. The popular commitment to the protection of the churches I see as the expression that this scheme still has a good root fixture. I mean, because we're going to be careful about discussing arrangements that mean that the community no longer gets direct responsibility for the church's. I do not want to exclude a discussion of state aid schemes or various aid measures from a central point of view, but I believe it is very important to maintain the principle that primary responsibility for church buildings should lie locally. Because even though we have many examples of churches that are in poor condition, we should not forget that we also have examples of the local community having the power to maintain the churches in a forward-looking way. Otherwise, I believe that the discussion on the protection and protection of churches naturally belongs to a wider debate on cultural memory protection. I refer here to the debate that Stortinget had last October on the basis of an interview from the representative Jørgen Kosmo on the protection and protection of all our cultural memories. Churches were often mentioned in this debate. The debate showed that the protection of churches is part of a larger case complex and that we have a major national challenge in this area. The government is now working on a big message about cultural memory policy. This message is to be forwarded to the current host. Of course, protection and preservation of churches will be discussed in this message. I see it as a little bit now to go into a specific discussion about e.g. changes in the division of responsibilities between municipalities, state and church sound with regard to the maintenance of churches. To a large extent, this could also be a discussion of state aid schemes. In this case, the Government will come back to the so-called big message about cultural memory policy. In this field neither I nor the Government have yet concluded. As mentioned, I believe that the starting point for securing and protecting church buildings must be that primary responsibility is local. As long as we stick to this principle, I will point to the close relationship between the church economy and the local economy. A tight church economy, with a lack of resources for maintaining churches, is often linked to a tight community economy. The financial framework for municipalities is thus an important aspect of the discussion on the administration and maintenance of our church buildings. Having said that, at the same time, I think there is reason to point out that many municipalities have not chosen to prioritize the maintenance of their churches in good economic times either. I would like to end by mentioning last November's Government, which will review and evaluate the ownership management of municipalities. The background for the education is that we have discovered that unfortunately, it is not just the church building that lacks maintenance. This also applies to many other buildings for which the municipalities are responsible, e.g.: Skulls. As we know, the total backlog for the maintenance of municipal buildings is estimated at tens of billions of dollars. The task of the selection is first to consider possible structural obstacles to keep the municipal building mass constant. When I mention this selection in connection with church buildings, it is because the church buildings are specifically mentioned in the mandate of the selection, even though the church buildings are not municipal buildings. In addition, the government will continue to work with a big message about the economy in Church, which Stortinget has asked us to present next year. This will also be a theme that must have full control over that markup. There we come back with concrete measures, so it is a little too early now to provide concrete answers to the interpellation in relation to the conclusions and problem-solving that we are currently working with in the Government. This applies both to the Cultural Memory Message and to the Church Economy message, which is due next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1145	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm having a different impression now, after this answer, than the impression we put with, we who heard Bondevik say that it was okay to tear up church buildings that were in bad condition. It resounds all over the country when a prime minister from the Christian People's Party gives a clear signal to tear down God's house. I think the Council of State is a little passive given that the problem has been known, and that it is partly acute. I might have expected a more offensive attitude, especially with regard to the approx. 220 church buildings that are peaceful. I think there is a expectation that the Minister of Culture is particularly concerned about those buildings. The cultural heritage that these churches represent deserves a better destiny than the one that they seem to get right now. The councils pointed to the local authority's responsibilities. We agree that today the municipality has responsibility for maintenance, and the church community owns the building. When you point to the popular commitment, we often hear hard work mentioned. And it's true that many church buildings have been well cared for by their community. But it is also true that the buildings that are often in the worst condition are in areas where the community is small, where the population base is small, often with older members. So the popular commitment we're all going to build up and inspire, but I think it'll be going too far to lean back and say that here the good spirit will rule alone. I think cultural memory protection is a good starting point for discussing the protection of church buildings. Because under cultural memory protection there are rather strict rules, and there are also tools that can be used against these old churches. Governments point out that there are two messages coming and that it is too early to conclude. But I hope that the debate here will be good, and that the Council of State will include the input and suggestions for solutions that will come here, so that we can find them again in the two messages mentioned. I will also come back to them a little later.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1158	I react very strongly to the inconspicuousness of that part of the post where reference was made to the Prime Minister saying that it is only possible to tear down church buildings. I don't know where the interpellant has it from. I know that in a spontaneous Question Time, this problem was raised. The Prime Minister referred to the Church's own body in relation to the discussion of what church buildings were to be used for, and that in the next round we were going to deal with what they came to the ministry, if that were the case. But there's never been any policy from the Prime Minister that it's just to start tearing up church buildings. I hope that the debate can take place at a slightly different level. In view of the fact that we are just leaning back, I would like to remind you that working actively with two big messages that talk about this issue is not to lean back. This government is actually taking this issue seriously so that we're going to the Storting with things where we're also going to point to solutions. But it's a little too early to draw the conclusions now. If good recordings come from Stortinget, I am happy to take them with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1165	It's not hard to agree with the interpellant at her starting point. Many of our churches have too poor maintenance and need sorely increased maintenance and upgrading. There is a significant backlog over many decades that has led to today’s situation. This is not a problem that has arisen in the last year or years. Over many years, many of our churches have not received necessary maintenance, because of lack of resources or because of lack of priority. Linking this one-sidedly to, as it is said from some teams, the starvation of municipalities by the majority of the population is directly wrong. I am pleased that the interpellant has a more nuanced view of the causes. A poor maintenance situation does not come suddenly, it is being built up. The discussion that we have heard in ours, which is now being followed up by the interpellation, is both important and necessary. I agree with the representative Nielsen that our churches represent a great cultural tax. This applies to both our churchmen, to our medieval churches for the rest and to other protected churches – all the churches that have been built and built. This is building to which there are many feelings attached. They play a major role in the local environment, primarily as church buildings, but also as cultural buildings in a broader definition. Church buildings should not be demolished. The provisions of the Church Act on access to demolition are very strict. Opening up to tearing up churches is not the same as admitting individual churches to be demolished. I hope we get such approvals. Section 21 of the Church Act grants approval authority to the Ministry, after prior examination at the meeting. It's a reassuring process. However, it may be appropriate to give other uses to church buildings. Especially where the churches are close, this can be both topical and sensible. One must nevertheless be aware of what kind of alternative use it is about. Any feelings that will be associated with the church building must be taken into account. However, the question of demolition or alternative use is a siding. The most important thing is maintenance and upgrading. The churches are still going to be churches. Int. S. No 187 for 2000-2001 a unanimous church, education and research committee writes that the State has a special financial obligation to ensure the protection of church buildings with national and cultural historical significance for future generations. That's an important remark. I hope that this position will be assessed in the forthcoming communication on cultural memories, because for these church buildings it has to be a layer of fission. Municipalities will not be able to give the buildings the necessary upgrading. I also attend to an assessment of an interest-free loan scheme. A fissure layer can succeed. I have an example in the end: in my home municipality, Gjerstad, the church from 1848, drawn by Grosch, is now restored for nearly 5 million. through a fissure layer with funds from the Riksantikvaren, municipal funds and small and large contributions from the rural population. So it's not misery everywhere. There are good examples that where there is will, there are also opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1178	I could have repeated a lot of the points that have been raised here today. I'm not going to do that. The need for funds for the maintenance and rehabilitation of the churches is great because the maturities have been going on for a very long time. It's increased year by year, and it's today's big sum it's about. So I think instead of accusing each other of dishonesty and injustice, we're going to take it for what it is: it's a common responsibility, and we have to bear this responsibility together. It's been a shifting majority, and there's been shifting governments. The dawning recognition that I experience that the representative Nielsen has when she in the interpellation asks that one look at the need to assess the stages of the responsibilities of the Church as a whole, I think is very good. I think that's very good, because I think a lot of the problem situation comes from the ability to shift the responsibility between these terms. But that's another thing we shouldn't forget. It is clear that in Norway we have a state church. There's a broad, big consensus here that we should have it, and so is it in the population. But the fact that we have a state church also means that the state has a substantial responsibility to ensure that the state church can be properly and properly operated in suitable houses. We shall not forget that – and the government budgets have not taken this sufficiently inward over time. In the processing of the message ‘exchange and cathedral’ in the previous period, the Progress Party promoted a model of how this work could start reasonably quickly. The model was based on the entire return of the Information Society's fund, which is the Church's beneficent goods, and which could then be used in return for the proper care of the Church's assets. This was not a wish, and the proposal only got the votes of the Progress Party, and fell. Later, government councils have addressed some of the issues and changed what was perhaps the most necessary to change from the fund. The Progress Party has an extremely clear view that the Church as a Church represents so important historical and cultural supports in our modern Norwegian society that we cannot simply begin to make major changes to this. It is not easy to transfer church buildings to other denominations, other denominations. That's why the Progress Party is quite clear that there has to be a way to let this be funded by the state, by all of us, and maybe we're going to have to put our crunches on the shelf and get this big work going that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1191	I think the Council of State makes it a little easy for itself by pointing out that the churches are a municipal and local responsibility. It's quite typical that when we have major societal problems, it's a local and municipal responsibility. I also react to a bit of the language used by the Council of State, namely that she used the words ‘different relief measures’ to the congregations. That's not what we're talking about. Here we have some congregations that sit and manage our cultural-historical heritage. They have been given the responsibility to manage this legacy, and it is obvious to everyone that they are unable, within those limits and within their own activities, to manage it properly. We have approx. 220 churches built before the Reformation, before 1537, which are peaceful. What we're doing then is saying that it's the responsibility of the individual community to manage these and take care of them on behalf of the big society, on behalf of all of us. It's getting too simple for me. It is quite clear that when these churches manage our cultural-historical heritage, perhaps the most important heritage we have – it was basically only the Church that built at that time, fortunately we had no no nobility, so it was the Church that had the opportunity to build, and the built building that we now later appreciate to have – we must also realize that it is the great community, it is the community, it is the state that has to take responsibility for protection, in relation to taking care of this cultural heritage. I had expected the Council of State to at least say so. In the case of those buildings, she should be able to say it. And then we all have the other church buildings. We have approx. 750, which, after what I understand, is protective, i.e. largely built after the Reformation, after 1537. They're also a major part of our cultural heritage. I think we also have to find arrangements there, so that these churches may have them as their daily church. But at the same time, this is our cultural heritage. That's something we're proud to have in common, and then we have to be able to find arrangements, so that the state somehow goes directly in, and so that the Riksantik product gets a responsibility for these buildings. So I had expected the Council of State to at least acknowledge from this pulpit that here we have to find arrangements, create a system where the community and the state take responsibility for the peaceful churches, clearly and clearly, in terms of protection and maintenance and all of this. And then we need to have a dialogue on what we're going to do with those buildings that are protective. And then we have the 600-700 other churches, and these are common churches. Of course, local responsibility lies here with the congregations. We are told that this is a municipal responsibility. But that the state council here today can't say anything about the peaceful churches and the protective churches, I think that's a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1200	Church maintenance has been a great commitment for people out there, as the Council of State also says, and it has also been here among the representatives of the Storting. A year ago, I asked the Council of State about this, and she replied that the Government was working on a plan, and that it was important to think about this in the long term. Two months ago, we asked a written question to the Council of State, and she replied that it is still working on a plan, and that it is important to think in the long term. We have heard today that it is working with two messages attached to this. I share the views of the representative Rikham – I had hoped and wished that the Council of State could give some signals and be a little concrete, at least in relation to this about medieval churches, for which it is, in fact, difficult for the local community to take full responsibility. We've been to a church maintenance conference – everyone in this room now, I think – in Narvik, and we also agreed there that something had to be done. In this way, the Council of State actually has a pretty good starting point for making concrete proposals for the Storting, for the involvement of politicians to take care of our church buildings is large and strong in this room. In this way, I am optimistic, but I want something concrete to come out of the Council of State that the Storting can decide on. I would like to remind you that last year the Senterpartiet in the revised budget proposed a loan scheme for church buildings, similar to the school building loan scheme. We are going to repeat this in the revised budget now – and certainly also in the state budget for 2005. When we were at the church maintenance conference in Narvik, a majority of the parties there expressed that this was something you really should consider seriously. So I'm going to challenge the Council of State as to whether this might be a way to solve such a big challenge as the one you're actually facing in church maintenance. I look forward to the Council of State saying something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1215	It is an important topic that the interpellant addresses here today, especially in relation to being able to confirm that there is an aggregate growth that will do something to the church buildings. It's an active commitment, and so do I at the Council when she says she's actively working on this particular issue. Now she gets the "pressure" from Stortinget to work on. Exactly two weeks ago, I was standing at the Acropolis Height in Athens and for the first time looking at the great columns after the temples of the Greatness Age in Athens' history. What's so fascinating about old temple buildings that they attract thousands of people, and they spend millions of dollars, that is. euro, to keep them up to date? Well, they tell a story about God and humans. In the Yearbook of the Norwegian Church, Oddbjørn Sørmoen, a consultant at the Riksantikvaren, writes that the church building is a brand name. He writes that it is most often the old church buildings that have a strong appeal to the broad group of church members, and few brands are as well incorporated as the traditional Norwegian church. This time of debate on church building shows that it is a popular commitment. The churches matter to most people. It also shows the upswing here today. As the Council of State said, the churches are a strong symbol of our cultural identity as people and as a nation, and they are an expression of our Christian cultural heritage. These are the churches that you apply to in many of the crucial phases of life, from the beginning of life, at baptism, to the end of life, at the funeral. It is not nice to want the churches to be in proper condition. The Christian People's Party is also concerned with the problem of lack of maintenance. Our local politicians are concerned about this and in many local governments have long struggled to get the necessary funds for the churches, because it is in local government decisions made. The problem has built up over a long time, because you haven't prioritised this well enough. In any case, it will be important to maintain that primary responsibility for our churches is municipal, because the involvement in the community is important for the churches. In this context, I would like to mention that we have a favourable loan arrangement for municipalities in order to be able to repair school buildings. It must be an idea to take it further when assessing church buildings. A maintenance plan has been proposed for the stave churches, and a cultural memory message is being worked on. 40 pst. cultural memories are church buildings, so the protection of church buildings will be natural. The demolition of churches is not Christian People's Party policy. We know that in the 1800s, over a hundred stave churches were torn, which we regret today. Over the centuries, the churches were the only public buildings that were built. It is therefore important to take care of the churches further when the Church’s Employers’ Organisation now creates a central database, where information on the state of the churches can be gathered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1231	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising the question, and the Council of State for the answer. Church history is so much different from church history. I've grown up in a building with a stone church from the Middle Ages – 870 years old – that is closely related to the history of the village. For me, it's a special building, since I know that my ancestors for at least 300-400 years have used that particular church for the important actions of life. That's why the church is something other than just a house of God. It's also an important part of our identity, it's important as a cultural intermediary, and it's an important historical building, which tells something about our common history. In my time as a cultural agency in Oslo, we tried to make a promise in relation to church buildings. We saw that it didn't just mean building a new church on Mortensrud, where you didn't have a church. It also meant making a promise in relation to the churches we had. The challenge was that we had some church buildings that were more demanding than others. Having medieval stone churches is a completely different challenge than having modern work churches built in the 1970s. We also saw national actions, such as: a Crown Prince's wedding, directly intervened in municipal budgets with regard to priorities — when the cathedral is a municipal responsibility. But to me, it is also important to say that the church should not only have a static content. I was in Egypt a short time ago, and there I visited a church building that had been both synagogues, mosques, and churches through various ages, from the year 300 C.E. onward. As a member of the Old Town Council, I have also noticed the frustration, anxiety and grief that many people experience at all by opening up a discussion about whether the Greenland Church should be used for anything else. For those of us who know the song "On the Enerhaugen," it says: "To old Greenland's church, for that rose you shall hate the Mayan once to blush and say yes." Clearly, our church buildings have a different position in our lives than just being a house of God. This is about culture, identity and history. It's important to include when looking at the future of these buildings. I don't always think we should say that all church buildings should be church buildings for the future, but it's important to include all the other perspectives when dealing with this. It is important to remember that some municipalities have had greater challenges in bringing their cultural heritage forward than other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1253	I come from a state where the oldest existing buildings are of two categories. The first category of barley comes from the German Iron Age, where German bunkers are listed in concrete and reinforcement irons from the period 1940 to 1945. The second category is precisely church buildings that are listed before that time. In my own home municipality, Alta, we have interesting cultural construction works, such as: Kåfjord Church, which was probably drawn by the same architect who drew the Castle. JC Dahl said when the castle was listed, that the architect Linstow had not even drawn a doghouse, and he was quite right about that. But when he drew Kåfjord Church, he had at least drawn the Castle. When you go into that church, you can find the signature of Haakon 7. From the time he visited the church earlier, in the twentieth century. But what you also see is how little one has the resources to care for this church as the cultural tax it has been. The same is true of Alta Church and a good deal of other church buildings in Finnmark. It is clear that the economy of the different municipalities does not extend. Nor does it extend – we see that in Alta now – to realise the need for new church buildings. The situation of municipalities, in relation to schools, which is that they have worn-out buildings, is in many ways much worse in the case of churches. So you have to accept conditions under baptism and under confirmation that there is not enough room for visitors, so you have to have reservations in relation to the church room. You don't have toilets and you don't have the ability to take care of your baptismal children in relation to their care, etc. We see that the local government's economy does not extend. What many people have stressed here is that church buildings are cultural buildings. Therefore, it is also reasonable to ask the Council of State whether she will not look at schemes for grants to church buildings, namely cultural buildings, both as regards the preservation of the buildings and the realization of new church buildings, through the state support system, which is, through the state, just for cultural buildings. I would like to ask the Council of State in a concrete way: will the Council of State consider a reorganization of the present system in which church buildings are included? Many church buildings include: also as an objective of organising concert venues, not only of a church nature but also of a cultural nature, so that there are truly cultural, broad activities taking place in the church building. So I hope and believe that the Council of State also wants to have a government behind it that actively wants to do something about this, so that we do not get a situation where the Christian People's Party has to be imposed on funds for the preservation of Norwegian church buildings, because one can sit a little bit with that feeling here in the hall today that the Christian People's Party must be run from chance to chance to safeguard the great resources that the Norwegian Church is sitting on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1268	After the debate, together with the psalmist, we can state that the Church is an old house. That's why we're discussing this right here today. I think it has been a promising debate. I would like to thank the representatives of the committee for that. When the council says it's too early to be concrete, there's a lot I could think of saying about it. Questions have been asked earlier in the Questionnaire, and written questions have been asked. The Council of State has always said that one is working on a plan, but that it is still too early to be concrete, that we have to wait for these two messages. My experience after three years in Stortinget is that messages broadly describe the current situation on the day the message is completed. If the Council of State can promise me that we will have an operational and offensive action plan in the messages, I look forward to them with much greater expectation. When both the Right and the Christian People's Party in today's debate say that the arrangement we have for school construction should be assessed in connection with the Church, I think it's great. That's what we're going to take with us. I also hope that the department will take it into account in the work ahead of it. Right-wing representative Jan Olav Olsen is quite clear that the state has a responsibility and that a fissure layer is necessary. Also he has a sincere commitment, and I think that's good, because the right is basically sitting on the foot of the accelerator in the government. When the Progress Party is also as offensive as it was here, and has such an commitment to this, I think the Storting should be able to get far. I also noted that the representative of the Christian People's Party, Elsa Scarbøvik, said quite specifically: the demolition of churches is not Christian People's Party policy. Thank you – that's good! Then I expect the Council of State to notice. Finally, I would like to say that it may seem that the members of the Church, Education and Research Committee and the Storting are more involved in this matter than the department has. I hope I'm wrong. I'm just saying it can work like this. I hope it's not really like that. But the Storting obviously has a hurry to do something about the churches and the cultural treasures that stand and fall due. Obviously, the size is more urgent than the department. Finally, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I thank the Council of State for its answers. Finally, I would like to ask: can the Council confirm that these two messages announced will contain an offensive action plan to preserve our church buildings, an action plan that is also funded?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1287	I also think that this has been a good debate. It was a little strange for me to hear Olav Gunnar Ballo mention that one must force on the Christian People's Party funds to Church. I have to say, it hasn't always been like this. The vote here in the Chamber has turned from the first time we provided a budget, where we got cut, to today. No more occurrences have occurred. I don't think that's going to happen to this mess, and it's promising to take care of our church taxes. I would also like to say that I hardly think there has been any government council that has had such an involvement in this matter that I have had. The only message is Børge Brende is responsible for, as Minister for the Environment, and we are going to make concrete contributions to that message. I can promise. She has to go up to the Government before it is brought forward. That's why I don't want to be so very concrete today. But the engagement I take with me. I also take the signal with me. Some people have mentioned that we should use OVF. Our Labour Party has its proposal for a solution. The Progress Party pulled it out. Then I just have to mention that the return of the OVF fund today is used for church activity and to take care of our pastors and the property owners who church their own, so that the fund is already today going to take care of old buildings and old presbyteries. Something also goes to church activity. If the return is increased, I have nothing against looking at the use with regard to maintenance. We will also take that into account in our work. And then there's a lot of people that mention this with the loan arrangements that we have for school buildings. There's a lot of positive things about it. I'm also taking the signal about this from a multiple here in the hall. What's a little negative is that the municipalities that can afford the worst are the ones that can't afford to receive that help. What I'm a little worried about is what we're going to do to get a system that everyone can afford to recover. I'm also adding it as a little cross of thought. I can promise Olav Gunnar Ballo that I will consider such a conversion as the representative mentioned in his statement. Now we get a lot more resources for cultural building because one has changed the key. When it comes to including church buildings in such a scheme, I will take this back to the department to see if we can get to such a conversion. And maybe Alta can also get a new church, which I know they have plans about, and as they want. They need some drag help to get it done. We have to come back with the result of that review next time. Otherwise, I would like to thank the interpellant for the interpellance. I fully agree with what the representative said in his statement, that there are two debates here. One debate concerns the use of church buildings, infrastructure and churches located in areas where there is little use for them. The second debate concerns maintenance. Today we talk about maintenance. When it comes to the second debate, it's also interesting, but it's the church owners themselves who are going to travel, and not we politicians. Then we have to take note of the debate and the wishes that church owners themselves travel in relation to the church buildings that are located where there is not as much use for them as one could have liked.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1304	So the debate is on case No. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1318	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1325	Today, the size of the population has an attitude of the Committee on Transport, which concerns a subject on which very many naturally are concerned. Safe school transport for children and young people is a common goal for all, and it is also reflected in the position taken by the Committee on Transport. As rapporteur of the case, I will first go a little quickly through the setting itself and finally make some additional comments from the Christian People's Party. As the opinion shows, the entire Committee is strongly committed to ensuring that all school children are seated on the bus to and from school, but the majority, all except the two members of the Advance Party in the Committee, do not see the need to amend the Road Traffic Act in order to achieve this objective. The majority do not disagree with the intentions of the proposers, but look at other instruments that are more appropriate for the safe and safe transport of school students. The majority of the Committee points to the responsibility of the county to ensure the safe transport of school students. The county must continue to have this responsibility, and it is therefore not desirable for the State to regulate the design of this service unnecessarily. The majority trust that local authorities provide safe and safe school transport for children and young people. The majority assume that the county council provides enough seating for everyone on the school bus, even in cases where there are no separate school routes. A letter from the Department of the Committee stresses that the dialogue between county municipalities and transporters is good today, so that any problems related to standing and school-children's transport can be resolved quickly. The majority of the Committee also stressed that the very low accident rates show that school transport is mainly carried out in safe forms. However, it is not satisfactory, as a SINTEF 1998 report shows; that 2-5 pst. by schoolchildren do not have a seat in or out of school. This entails an unnecessary additional risk in accident situations. In addition, from a work environment perspective, it is unfortunate that so many children and young people do not have seats at and from their workplaces, which are schools. I think it is gratifying that an overall committee is concerned that children and young people should have a safe school transport, and I feel confident that there is a broad political consensus to do what is necessary to ensure maximum safety in this area. Finally, in the Christian People's Party we see it as very important to ensure high safety in the transport of school students. The Christian People's Party is going to follow developments in this area closely. We assume that our state policy-makers give priority to safe school-children transport and take the necessary measures if transport capacity is too low. The problem of school transport and standing places should be an important issue also in the annual budgetary procedures, and perhaps it is also time to obtain up-to-date information on the current situation in the country. After all, it has been a few years since 1998.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1348	I think we're all concerned with children's safety, whether they're on the bus to and from school, on the school road or elsewhere. The transport of schoolchildren is and shall be a municipal responsibility, where the State does not regulate the detail unnecessarily, but where local people elected are to have the freedom to decide how the service is to be designed. The county councils shall ensure safe school kissing. We're all concerned about that. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the report prepared by SINTEF on behalf of the Ministry of Transport in 1998. SINTEF estimates in the report that the average proportion of schoolchildren required to attend or leave school is in the range of 2-5 pst. It is a belief that the ongoing dialogue between the states and the carriers is very good today, so that the problems can be resolved quickly. As the rapporteur has explained, there is broad agreement on the suspension. You follow the case and hope that it will be safe for schoolchildren to travel on Norwegian roads and be taken to school by bus.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1357	I will be brief, because the case rapporteur has presented the matter in an excellent manner. The Progress Party wants to amend the Road Traffic Act to prohibit the transport of schoolchildren and young people by bus. Today, we learn that in several counties, schoolchildren and young people are transported by bus. The right will point out that it is desirable to offer seats for children and young people. School transport is a county responsibility and is now covered by the county's free income, including transfers from the state through the income system. This means that the individual county has great freedom to design this service itself. We still want this service to be a municipal task, and that we should not, on the part of the state and the Stortinge, regulate in detail unnecessarily. We want the elected representatives to have the freedom to decide how this service is to be performed. However, I would like to end by stating that it is desirable for the county to provide a safe school transport and enough seating for our school children and our youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1370	The background to this proposal by the Progress Party is that schoolchildren and young people in a number of counties are referred to standing places on school buses every school day. At the same time, more stringent safety rules are being introduced, including: requirements for the use of safety belts. This creates great uncertainty and fear in both children and parents. School transport is usually carried out outside densely populated areas, at speeds up to 80 km per hour. As a result, accidents and near-accident accidents involving school buses have been reported in many parts of the country. The Road Traffic Act currently allows parking in a number of bus types. Children and young people depend on driving to school by bus every day. They can't choose for themselves. In other words, they are obliged to take the bus, because it is compulsory school in Norway. The school children’s attitudes and understanding of the strict driving belt directive in passenger cars and traffic rules in general are not created when, on one day, adults are fined for not having children and young people in the passenger car, and then every day on their way to school, they are forced to thank the bus stand and record that the authorities are actually ignoring this danger for the economy of the states. For the most part, it seems incomprehensible to people that a public authority, on the one hand, calls for hazards and imposes by law the use of safety belts in passenger cars, while the same authority, on the other hand, may allow itself to point to savings in the budgets for the carriage of children and young people by bus with standing places to and from school. And then, finally, I would like to refer to a small remark from the majority, and that is to say, everyone except the Progress Party, where they write that they do not want the state to regulate in detail unnecessarily. They want local elected representatives to have the freedom to decide how services are designed. ‘It is not desirable to deprive the local authorities of this freedom’, it states. I just have to say that this comment is almost historically funny, because there will hardly be any parliament in the world that is more eager to regulate in detail than this assembly. I just want to point out, as one said before I went into the hall, that animals are better secured during transportation. You can, for example: do not drive two stallions in the same wagon. So stallions are horses. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Progress Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1383	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1386	Document No 8:68 for 2003-2004 addresses an important issue, namely whether there should be a ban on the transport of schoolchildren and young people standing in a school bus. When we know that 2-5 pst. by schoolchildren only have a standing position in bus transport to and from school, and about 40 children are injured annually in bus transport to and from school, it is important to focus on this situation. Luckily, the damage that occurs in the context of scourging is more likely to damage, but this situation must in any case be taken seriously. At the same time, we must point out that the county councils are responsible for the school shower and that the state has only set a minimum level of standard on school pillows by law and regulations. The individual municipality is therefore free to design this service. As pointed out in the Department's reply to a letter from the Committee, the county council and the municipalities can establish their own school-children's transports, so that children and young people can secure their seats. However, as pointed out in the letter from the department, the individual county council has, through agreements with the transporters, been given arrangements such as: secures at least six-year-old seats. It is also worth noting that while the transport of schoolchildren takes place in some places with their own schooling routes, there are many places in the country where the schooling routes are combined with ordinary collective routes. In those cases where the routes are combined with normal routes, it would probably be difficult to adjust the capacity so that there are always enough paths. In the case of safety and school-child transport, it is also important to look at this issue in the light of developments at national and international level in legislation related to installation obligations and the obligation to use personal protective equipment on buses. The safety of school transport is likely to improve as several buses are fitted with personal protective equipment, but it is important to point out that personal protective equipment will not improve the safety of those who still have to be on buses. The center part thinks that it's an important theme that's taken up, and that it's a theme that we need to pay great attention to in the future. Nevertheless, the Centre Party does not agree that the Storting should reduce the freedom of local and county elected representatives to take responsibility for and facilitate the best possible solution to this service. I am confident that they will take this issue seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1399	It is an important question that is addressed today. I attach great importance to the safe transport of schoolchildren. It is therefore an important issue that representatives Svendsen, Red, Hedstrøm, Sortevik and Nistad address. The county is responsible for the school transport and is now covered by the free income of the county, including transfers from the state through the income system. This means, in practice, that each county has a great deal of freedom in the design of this service. Such service is organised today, it is carried out partly as its own school routes, but also often as an integral part of the ordinary collective service. In cases where transport is carried out by means of separate school routes, county authorities have the opportunity to adapt the offer in order to avoid the problem. Corresponding possibility does not exist where the transport is carried out as an integral part of the regular service, so that in these cases schoolchildren, like other travellers, may have to stand during transport. Several have pointed out that the Ministry of Transport in 1998 asked SINTEF to develop a description of the scale and severity of the problem. On this basis, Stortinget was briefed on the problem in St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001. The Ministry of Transport concluded at that time that there was no need for specific measures in relation to the use of standing places in the school transport of children by bus. I cannot see that there have been significant changes in the framework conditions for, or the risk exposure of, this type of transport and therefore trust that the assessments made in the 2001 Government's draft budget will remain relevant. I would like to conclude by saying that there is a rapid development, national and international, in the legislation relating to personal protective equipment in relation not only to installation obligations but also to user obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1412	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2959]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1421	We are then ready to vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1442	During the debate, Mr Hansen made a proposal on behalf of the members of the Presidency, Mr Inge Wohnning and Mr Holten. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Presidency shall set up a body as a whole to evaluate the budgetary procedure and the management of proposals having budgetary implications, and shall make proposals for improvements.’;» An alternative will be to vote between this proposal and that of the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1467	During the debate, Mr Evje presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and Mr Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of all aspects of the practice of the different county municipalities in relation to the rights of adults.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1492	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose clarification of the free principle relating to the issues referred to in Document No. 8:38 [[2003-2004]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1542	In Case No: 7, 8 and 9 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1549	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for amendments to the Road Traffic Act to prohibit the transport of schoolchildren and young people by school bus.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03.ana.ud119e1578	There is no record.
