ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e26	From the representatives Morten Højlund and Finn Kristian Marthinsen, there are applications for leave from 1 June to 4 June and from the representative Eli Sollied Överaas for leave from 2 June to 4 June – all to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Buskerud County: Unni Hennum Lie For More and Romsdal County: Ola T. Heggem
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e66	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e73	This must be a joyous day for all those who have worked for the start of Rv 2. The section we are dealing with today, Klöfta–Nybakk, is the first of several stages on Row 2 to Kongsvinger. The majority, all with the exception of the Advance Party, agree that the toll company will be allowed to collect tolls for financing the development of the Rv 2 Klöfta-Nybakk. The progress point goes into 100 pst. State funding. The Socialist Left Party clarifies that they don't see the need for a major highway bet, but they see that the road has to be upgraded. They believe that this is where the railway takes precedence and should have its main priority. Rv 2 together with Rv 35 represents an important road around Oslo, a road that is important to the region and also as a national road network. The way it is today is not satisfactory. This has a significant negative impact on accessibility and road safety. There is therefore a strong need to address the need to improve business and other road users. This first distance is approx. 10,5 km long, and it will shorten existing Rv 2 with approx. 1.5 km. The first 3.5 km from the Klöfta until the level-separated crossing at the Borgen will be built with a width of 15 m, such as a two-field road with pass-by fields and a mid-driving works. The remaining section has a better and safer curve and will be built as a two-field road with a width of 10 m. However, to the extent that it is economically sound, measures in the development process will facilitate the future development of the four-field road. There is broad local political support for the development and the necessary plan clarifications that have been made. A county guarantee is provided for the loans granted by the bomb company, Rv 2 – Kongsvingervegen A/S. The total sum of the distance is 580 million, of which 60 pst. is toll ratio and 40 pst. is the State’s share. The recovery period is calculated at 14 years and 3 months. Tolls will be collected after the road is finished. With regard to the other routes on Rv 2, the department will return to Stortinget when it is time to start building up the next parcel. I understand that more people want us today to be able to say that it is going to be a continuous development of the project, but the majority see it as perfectly natural that this treatment must take place in the context of the forthcoming national transport plan. In conclusion, I am very pleased that we have now started with Rv 2. I also look forward to realizing the entire distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e92	If the flag does not go to the top along the line Rv 2 Split - Newbakk today, it is not Stortinget's fault. We process the application for a split layer with tolls and state funds to get started faster on a parsell road towards Kongsvinger, as they locally want. Locally, tolerance was over. There have been more than enough accidents and increasing traffic over many years, and to get out of this unsustainable situation, the solution was tolls in addition to government promises. The parcel starts in Akershus, but will come further into Hedmark as new stages are started. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to give leadership that when a project starts, we have to make sure that progress is good. We have many examples of the opposite over the years. Projects that are being devalued and that have had rational progress have stopped and resulted in the final calculation being unnecessarily large and progressing far too poorly. Rv2 is a tribal road between Norway and the Stocholm region and of great value for our trade with our neighbor. The trail, as it is today, leads traffic into and through the residential area, where small and large must travel locally to get to both school and work. With this new project, the road will be safer and shorter. The case manager has done a lot of good for the project, and a lot of stuff is behind it. Hedmark is a state that has so far not had so many toll projects. When it comes to getting better roads and access for food transport, this is a good project. But I dare remind you that there is often some form of user payment which means that large parts of Europe have also managed to get a solution when it comes to road corridors. At the same time, you have to make sure that way alone doesn't solve everything. This road project will be discussed in the context of NTP management in June. I don't change what will stand there, but in line with rational progress, as I mentioned earlier, it will be quite natural with a remark. I'm recording that the South Odal spokesperson is here today. I'm sure he's got a good stomach fight right now. Transportation is important to all of us, but most for those who live in an unsustainable situation for the day to day. Well, we can all ask him to go home, fold up the Ermans and put the spade in the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e113	The Progress Party believes that Rv 2 is of great importance for transport from the Central East and the Western region towards Kongsvinger and Sweden. I refer to the great importance of the road, which also refers to full expansion of the motorway standard. We also believe that Rv 2 Klöfta–Kongswinger must be continuously expanded during the current planning period. The Progress Party will expand Rv 2 Klöfta-Kongswinger with State resources, without toll financing. The revision of the national transport plan has also been addressed in a short time in Stortinget — and then with full development. It is a shame that the drivers have to pay extra taxes through tolls. I hear that it is said here that there should be a split layer between the state and the users. What kind of spice layer is it when the drivers pay over 40 billion kroner in fees and only 11.5 billion kroner goes to road construction? In such a fissure layer, the drivers are sitting on each side of the table. The Progress Party will vote against allowing the toll company to collect tolls for financing the development of Rv 2 Klöfta–Nybakk, but we will – which will be discussed in a few days’ time – propose full funding of the State budget and build the road on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e120	It is gratifying that a large majority of the Committee supports the Government's approach to the development of Rv 2 Klöfta-Nybakk in Akershus, financed in part by government appropriations and in part by the recovery of tolls when the road is finished. This is the first stage of the expansion of Rv 2 between Klöfta and Kongsvinger in Akershus and Hedmark. The Ministry of Transport suggests that the work at Klöfta–Nybakk can start in 2004 and that the project should be opened up to traffic in 2007. It will give very positive ring-effects to the area. Rv 2 does not currently have a standard that is satisfactory, and it has negative consequences for accessibility and road safety. Therefore, there is a need to address this route in the interests of business and other users — the entire Committee agrees. A brief comment – first to SV’s attitude to road construction. The Socialist Left admits in its particular note that the road has a standard that is not satisfactory and that it needs upgrading. However, this shall not be done properly in accordance with the standards to which daily traffic refers because of the fear that the railway may lose passengers. In the Christian People's Party, we are also busy getting the most to take the railway. We're busy cleaning up the railroad, but I think we, as railway friends, are doing ourselves a bear service by constantly constructing a contrast between cleaning up the road and cleaning up the railway. Finally, the Progress Party, which will not use tolls this time either, even if it is a local connection to it. It is only to be noted that the Progress Party is in a higher division than the other parties on the Stortinget in terms of the use of money, also for transport. But in the Christian People's Party we are concerned that fictitious money is little good in the real world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e131	I can mainly join the case-speaker in his speech at the beginning of the debate, so I will not extend the debate that much. But I want to draw the line below the value that it can now be started by the Parselle Rv 2 Klöfta–Nybakk. Rv2 is a road that is of great importance to business, as a transit route and as a route between districts. Locally, as many have been involved, Rv 2 Klöfta–Kongswinger is considered as a single toll project, and there is broad local political support for the development of the whole route to be co-financed by tolls. It's not a problem to understand that, for example. The progress team thinks that tolls should try to avoid. But we've probably discovered someone each that we get a long wait for the completion of some of the important projects that we find in different places in the country, if we're not willing to spend tolls. When there is also a local deal about e.g. the order in which the parcels are to be built – one has chosen to build the section Klöfta–Nybakk in Akershus first, the toll arrangement is handled and agreed in the municipalities and county councils concerned and has been joined – then there is no problem for the Centre Party to join the scheme outlined. As regards the further development of Rv 2 on the Klöfta-Kongswinger route, the Central Party will point out that we are now in the middle of the management of the National Transport Plan for the next ten years, and it would then be quite natural to look at the further development of Rv 2 Klöfta-Kongswinger in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e140	Rv 2 between the Cliff and the Swedish border is the third most important freight border crossing. Row 2 has a bad standard and a serious accident situation. While traffic and environmental handicaps are increasing, rural business depends on rapid and safe traffic management in order to maintain and strengthen competitiveness. Initiatives have been taken locally to develop Rv 2 to a satisfactory standard. In the local examination of the case, Rv 2 Klöfta–Kongswinger has been considered as a single toll project, and there is a local political agreement that the development of Rv 2 Klöfta–Kongswinger is partly financed by tolls. The distance is divided into four sections. There is local support for the Klöfta-Nybakk route to be built as the first stage. I am pleased that the Committee on Transport also sees the need to address this road section in terms of road safety and road safety, and that a majority joins the proposed development. For example, the majority for Rv 2 together with Rv 35 to constitute an important route around Oslo of great importance for the region and as a national trajectory. The government attaches great importance to local policy initiatives and the willingness to partially toll-funded development, and I note that the majority of the Committee on Transport also does the same. Cliffa–Nybakk will be partly built as a two-field road with pass-by and mid-driving works and partly as a regular two-field road. It has been assessed to adapt the development standard to new tribal normal, i.e. extension to narrow four-field road. This would have required a new impact assessment and this would have resulted in a massively vulnerable start-up of construction. Both local and state road authorities have agreed that it is important to start work on a new and timely route within the funding possibilities offered by the proposed toll scheme. However, further development of four-field roads will be facilitated to the extent that this is economically sound. The total cost estimate for the route Klöfta–Kongswinger is provisionally calculated for approx. DKK 2.4 billion. For the route Klöfta–Nybakk a control frame of 580 million has been established. NOK 610 million and a cost framework. kr – price level 2004. A maximum toll fraction of 60 pst has been calculated. overall for the whole line Klöfta-Kongswinger. The toll ratio for Klöfta-Nybakk is 60 pst. Akershus and Hedmark County Councils have decided to provide a guarantee for the debt of the toll project and have further accepted a scheme of up to 100 million. kr in conditional reimbursement. Construction is planned to start in October 2004, with a traffic opening in the autumn of 2007. Some remaining work will remain until 2008. Following some disagreement between the municipalities concerned regarding toll station location, it has been decided that the toll station should be set up west of intersection with Rv 174 at Nybakk. From the autumn of 2012, row 174 shall be converted so that the boom is placed east of the intersection with this road. The county councils agree on this solution and resolve a conflict between the road project and the agricultural interests. The toll scheme is based on post-clearance recovery from traffic opening in 2007. The collection period for each toll station shall not exceed 15 years. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee has joined the Government's proposal on the partial toll-financed extension of the route Klöfta-Nybakk on Rv 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e159	I just want to stress that we from SV support the fact that this road is being upgraded. We clearly say that there is a need to upgrade it both in terms of accessibility and in relation to the road safety problem. But we say in our remark that there is no need for a larger motorway bet. We also show that this goes parallel to the road, a railway that needs a lot of upgrade. In corridors where rail and road go in parallel, we give priority to the railway. That doesn't mean we don't want to do anything with the roads where these are bad, but we're prioritizing the railway. So to Jan Sahl, who initially doesn't understand SV's priority in this area. I would like to remind you that there is a need for a significant railway effort in this country over the next ten years. The fact that this government, in its proposal for a national transport plan, has reduced the level of ambition by as much as DKK 4 billion in terms of investment in relation to the current plan is a major national transport policy challenge, and we are willing to take it. That's why we mark our priorities in any roadway where the railway and the road go in parallel. There's a need to be extra on the railway, and that's also in this corridor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e166	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e169	Today I'm actually very happy. Now we've come a long way after a year-long debate on Rv 2. A unanimous committee authorises the Toll Corporation to levy tolls for the financing of the development of Rv 2 Klöfta-Nybakk. For the transport of goods, this is the third most traffic of the national roads with a tribal road function that crosses the national border. In 2002, about 11 pst went. of goods by road to the rest of the world via Magnor. The information center, that is, the Moroculian border service, tells us that it's going to pass 1.9 million. cars above the border per years, of which 120000 trucks. For the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 2003–04, the Stortinget decided to grant 10 million. kr to the route Klöfta - Nybakk in 2004. Rv 2 Klöfta–Kongsvinger starts at the intersection of E6 at Klöfta, and passes through the municipalities of Ullensaker and Nes in Akershus and South Odal and Kongswinger in Hedmark until Kurudsand. Existing Rv 2 is about 60 km long. The route Klöfta–Nybakk is about 10,5 km long and will short existing Rv 2 with about 1,5 km. There is broad local political commitment to part-financing the development of the whole route with tolls. Furthermore, the section Klöfta–Nybakk in Ullensaker is first developed and then the section Fulu–Kurudsand in Kongsvinger, cf. what has been said by other speakers. The question of partial toll-financed development of Rv 2 Klöfta–Kongswinger has been addressed in four municipalities concerned during 2002. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, Henning Myrvang, in South Odal, on his successful fight for many, many years for Rv 2. He's probably happy today, I think, but he probably won't be happy until the road is finished. In this context, I refer you to a comment in the setting where it says: ‘The members of the Committee from the Labour Party and the Progress Party will point to the importance of continuous expansion during the planning period of the entire Rv 2, the route from Klöfta in Akershus to Kongsvinger in Hedmark.These members assume that the State will follow up with government appropriations as foreseen in the project and that the sections will be further assessed when local treatment is completed.’ Now it is up to the Council of State and the Stortinget to contribute to a progress in the development of Rv 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e188	As Akershus' representative, I would like to express my joy at the position of the Committee on Transport on the launch of the first stage in the development of Rv 2 in Akershus. It is as the Committee says in its comments: Rv 2 does not have a standard that is satisfactory, and this has negative consequences, among other things. for the emergence. But what's worse is that road safety on this road is very bad. It's a very bad stretch, which we at Akershus were reminded of last Sunday, when this time it was a youth who died. This must be avoided, and the possibilities lie in what is now being adopted. In addition to improving road safety, this expansion will also have a major impact on the development of industry in the area. Transport is important for business, and bad roads cost both time and money. This is a road section that is sometimes heavily trafficked, and where there are sometimes long queues. I remember that Gardermoen, our main airport, is located in the area, and for the business community that sucks to this road, this will be an important extension, also for the development of the Gardermoen area. It is not new that the local population engages in road issues – we are very aware of that here at Stortinget – and that has also happened in this case. In this case, however, local toll financing has also been initiated. There is a sense that this may have resulted in the progress of the project being forced. User involvement is a good thing, which we could be better at exploiting here in Stortinget. The Progress Party will vote against toll financing. It's search. Here, then, there is full agreement that toll financing provides for an extension, and all the municipalities and county councils involved in the case agree on this. Then I think the Stortinget should stop and help to ensure that such road constructions take place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e201	We are now about to start a project where it could be tempting to use the wording that we are finally finishing a long day's journey towards the day. It's very, very happy that we finally got started. I want to underline what Grethe Fossli just said about road safety. One of the most important measures in terms of road safety is the sharing of roads, and I hope that it will also be taken into account in the further development. Whether the flags should go to the top? Yes, I think they do that among all of us and all of those who understand the importance of transportation to society. It has been said several times: behavior is as important to society as the circulation of blood is to man. But there is also no reason to hide that there has been very great resistance from special interests, and that it still has up to the last. I am therefore particularly pleased that the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environment agreed that the route chosen is the one that is also environmentally best. Then we have the question of progress. There is no reason to hide that I agree more than that with all possible means we must strive for a coherent development. Nevertheless, I suppose I should be allowed to say that the particular remark about what the Labour Party and the Advance Party are all about is not worth the world. It's a reality that the two parties have two very different approaches to this project, and that's why it's okay to say that this is a lot about words. To put it plainly: The further progress of Rv 2 right up to Kongsvinger depends on an understanding between the government parties and the Workers' Party. If this isn't going to be nothing but words in the loose air. Then I must be allowed to say that it is clear that 60 pst. toll ratios are not readily simple. But at the same time, it shows how important this path is to have in business and among people who are using the road to daily life. Otherwise it's been kind of a rule that a 50-50 distribution should be the right thing to do. When we all agree to a 60-40 distribution, I think it's more than anything else that tells us the meaning of the road. Now I don't think it's much more to add than we take inwards that we finally got a project as close as possible to start-up as it's possible from Stortinget's side. We see that it is already starting in the autumn. We are pleased with the progress we have received, and I believe that the Transport Committee here overall has done a very good job of getting to this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e218	Eirin Faldet claimed that there was a unanimous committee that was going to go into this project. But of course, the Progress Party is not going to go in for tolls. But what made me take the floor was the representative of Sahl. He started his post by saying that the Progress Party was ‘in a higher division’ than the Christian People's Party. That's absolutely right. If one sees the policy in context, the policy of the Progress Party is in a completely different division and in a much higher division than that of the Christian People's Party. The natural thing when a representative is on the pulpit of the Storting and realizes this would be that he notified transition to the Advance Party. I know the representative Sahl very well, so I welcome him. Then he says that the Progress Party uses "fictitious money". I don't think there's any such thing as fictitious money in this room. I can imagine that the representative Sahl perceives oil money as fictitious money. I could have imagined that Jan Sahl came up here and explained to me the difference between the use of what is called oil money – money that comes from the profits from the sale of oil or tax on oil companies – and tax money, the profit from, for example, increased tax revenue. What's the difference between these two types of money? I thought that a crown in Norway was a crown, no matter where it came from. It is also amazing that the representative Sahl says that we are using ‘fictitious money’. When you look at the increase proposed by the Advance Party in the ordinary budget, and see how much oil money the Government has now spent, there is no difference. The government spends as much fictitious money as the Advance Party. So it's amazing that you hear this. It's amazing to hear the representative Sahl standing here talking about the rule of action for the use of oil money, when, as I said, this government spends as much oil money as the Advance Party. Then it's said that there's a full local consensus that you're going to expand this project. I have not heard of any referendum that has been held. I am aware that the local government has adopted this. But now it's like we also had almost full local consensus in the Tønsberg area. There were over 80 pst. by the inhabitants against tolls. It led, as you know, to a race in the election, where most of those who voted for the introduction of tolls were removed. So, local democracy worked. This means that even if a local government goes in for tolls, it is not possible to say that it is the same as full local connection. In fact, it is the people of each municipality that is the local connection, if any. And there has not been a referendum, I confess, in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e233	The president is a little confused about what kind of division you're talking about in this context, but the president will assume that this last article was mostly about divisional music.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e239	I must first say that I am pleased that the President likes the tone of the Advancement Party and therefore finds it musical. In the case of Rv2, as it also shows, it is a very important communication vein. As Akershus representative, I therefore see very positively that something is being done with the road as it appears today. As speakers have said, these are the problems that are at stake today. And they're important. But as the Progress Party sees it, the problem is that one does not see the great importance of Rv 2 as a communication vein, with the needs that will have to come. If you had seen a little ahead, you would have taken the step fully, with full expansion to the motorway standard already now. Taking this step later will result in new rounds and much more costly construction work. As far as toll financing is concerned, it is clear that the Progress Party is not in favour of it. There are limits to how often you have to pay for the same path. Governments mentioned Rv2 as an approximate route around Oslo. The council forgot to mention that she now also wants to establish a de facto new toll around Oslo. You already have tolling one around Oslo, but also soon a tolling two something further out. It consists initially already of the Oslofjord Tunnel, the whole border towards Eastfold, now Rv 2 and possible plans for road pricing elsewhere in Rome. It would have been desirable, in fact, when you're talking about the relationship, that you might also see all of the old-fashioned passageways in the same context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e254	That's pretty typical, isn't it? Now the atmosphere was so good in this hall, and everyone was satisfied. And then the representative comes up and describes a note from the Progress Party and the Workers' Party that doesn't value the paper it's written on. I remind the representative Hernæs and Right that in connection with the previous national transport plan we had the great pleasure to see how high the Right flew with their money. Where did they go? Where was it of the billions that the right at that time blew up above? What is said in this note is just short and good that we hope that it will be followed up with money, so that we can complete Row 2, preferably long before the plan, because there is so much need for it, both for people living there and for the business community of the region. But the comment is actually well-meaning, and it is actually serious. Everybody should notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e261	The president had the impression that what the representative Hernæs said was that the note was worth the paper it was written on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e267	And then finally, we're going to have an extended link between E6 and Kongswinger. We've all been looking forward to that. It's important for the business community in the area. It's important for safety, not least, on a very bad road. Now, in the first stage, we take the very most important part of it, the particularly bad road at Nybakk. What got me to speak, however, was the contribution of representatives of the Progress Party. It is a well-known matter that the Progress Party has more money than anyone else for all good projects. When it comes to using tolls to finance such projects, I have no doubt that there are many who think this is less beneficial. But when the question is asked if you want the project, or if you don't want it, I think that's reason to say that then people say yes locally. And the thing that is obvious in this case is that with the arrangement of the Progress Party, this road project had not been realized at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e274	I perceive that I have stepped on a pair of sore toes with my post. First to the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen: My main concern with what I said about SV's comment here was that I believe we are not served in any context where road and rail go parallel, necessarily to create contradictions between them. It has to be possible to look at the possibilities of using funds for both. The fact that we create such a contradiction is, in my opinion, no good for us, and it does not serve the cause in terms of the development of the railway. So to the representative Kenneth Svendsen: As far as I know, I did not at all mention the use of oil money in my post. But I have noticed that the Progress Party is strongly in favour of the oil fund being used as a pension fund. That's where we agree. And if it's used as a pension fund, we can't spend the money twice. What we're doing today is we're taking out the returns of the fund and using it. I also did not mention the so-called action rule for the use of money from the oil fund. What was my point was this: I am convinced that when it comes to a total budget framework, it is notable that money, because it will go so far beyond other areas, not least one area in which the Progress Party is very concerned, namely health and care. We have seen this in negotiations with the Progress Party where we have hoped that there would be more money for transport. When priority needs to be given, the Progress Party has prioritised health and care over means of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e283	I find that on this joyous day Eirin Fallet's mood is ruined. I understand that, since I allow myself to point out that two parties that stand for two different angles of incidence for this expansion stand together in a note. What is important here is that the majority of the committee, all parties including the Central Party, but without the Advance Party, write in the vote: ‘The majority support, on this basis, the Government’s proposal for a partially toll-financed extension of the route Klöfta-Nybakk on Rv 2. This is the first of several stages in the development of Rv 2. The scheme is based on the decisions taken in the municipalities and counties concerned.» The premise for these decisions is precisely that there should be a fissure layer. So that's to say that you require state participation, totally unnecessary. That has been said in the majority vote. In the special remark about which the Labour Party and the Advance Party stand together, they say these of course, but it is said from two parties that have two very different approaches. And after the submissions heard from the representatives of the Progress Party today, there will be no further funding of Rv 2, neither to Klöfta–Nybakk nor to Kongswinger, if the policies they adopt are to be in place in this Chamber. That's why I repeat what I said in my first post: if this is going to be something other than words, it assumes that there is an understanding between the government parties and the Workers' Party, and then I don't think sparse nerves should easily destroy a good mood. You should be able to get this pointed out. I think that makes a lot of sense. Now we're looking forward to a new sense of humor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e293	If the President knows the representative Fallen right, it will do more to ruin her good mood. Eirin Fallet has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e299	It was the representative, Bjørn Hernæs, who made me lighten up a bit from the floor. I just want to make it clear that the comment we are referring to – now the representatives of the Progress Party can speak for themselves, they are doing well – it points towards the annual budgets. I have understood nothing other than that there is a willingness to grant money to the roads we are talking about then. We're talking about the annual budgets. National transport plan is a plan. So the representative here may well know that it is when everyday life comes in budgetary terms, that it becomes sad to be the one who has promised too many billions who no longer exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e304	I didn't intend to interfere, but I can't do that. I could maybe give the committee the idea that we could have a discussion about tolls every year, instead of having him 14 or 17 times a year, associated with concrete things, because he's just equal every time. Now there is no room for that kind of debate in the Stortinget without them being linked to specific issues, but it would have saved us too many day's work, I believe. When it comes to the Progress Party, it reminds me of a young person who says, "Mom, I've saved money, I'm missing 100 kroner for a chest of drawers, can I get them from you?" Then mother says, "You can get everything from me." But then it turns out that mom doesn't have the money, and then the girl doesn't get the comfort. It would have been like this in Samferdsle-Noreg. Those who ask to be allowed to arrange themselves, with some state support, have to be allowed to do so, because it's real money. The money Progress Party promises they will not. Now the Progress Party says we have to spend more money on the way forward, but we probably don't have the amount of money they have. So this note that's been hurting. I don't understand. There's more insight into what it's like to build the distance on a continuous basis. We save 10-20 pst. if we build the most continuously, so that we don't run in the excavators for a few months and then take them out again, then run them back in after a year. Here you can save a lot of money. There is an increased understanding that this will be necessary to achieve the full impact of investment. Drammen doesn't have to be that when you get a quadruple bridge, traffic stops in a two-field tunnel. This is an insight that the Government is also reflecting on – including Hernæs’ party, I believe – in the national transport plan. These include: added that in the Drama, the last piece must be captured, because before one takes the last piece, one does not enjoy what has come in advance. I don't quite understand why that remark hurts. We in the Working Party have at least got a sense that we have to be much better at building sense, so that we get the most possible way for money. This is what we write in this case about the Klöfta–Nybakk. It's not because this thing is special, but that's because that's how we have to think forward when we're building, for example. in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e313	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e321	Then the Stortinget is ready to go to voting in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e339	After the course of the debate, it is likely to be exhaustive to say that the President is bomb-proof that the Progress Party wants to vote against. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28.ana.ud2049e358	There is no record.
