ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e28	We are continuing the debate on case No. 1 and to the treatment of Framework Areas 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e31	First, I want to correct an error in the budget setting. The Framework Area 2 Roman Numeral Decision V 1 concerns birth money, which has not taken into account the reconciliation with the Advance Party. Equalised by the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, Roman Numeral Decision V 1 shall be replaced by the following: «Unique birth and adoption benefit, §§ 14-12 and § 14-20 of the Act 33 584 per child.» Then to the budget: First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their constructive and good cooperation on the budget, including the cultural budget, which we discussed earlier today. There has been a demanding process, which has challenged us in many ways, but we got well in port, if anything, overtime. The budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party ensures the main features of the Government's policy in all areas. We are pleased with the outcome of the budget agreement also in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We have had tidy, constructive and good negotiations, and I will pay tribute to the Progress Party, which has helped to ensure a majority in the government's policy in our three disciplines. The government is receiving broad support in its work on user rights and improving the efficiency of the public service provision. If citizens are to be more well-being in the future, it is important that all parts of the public sector operate as efficiently and effectively as possible. Competition is important to contribute to the efficient use of society’s resources. The government receives broad support in its work on an inclusive and stimulating working life. The State must have an active human resources policy, where public employees have exciting, challenging and evolving jobs, and at the same time they must feel secure and involved in the job situation. In particular, it is important to ensure women in leadership positions. The State must also take the lead as an inclusive employer in relation to older, disabled and ethnic minorities. On the right, it is very positive that we now have a modernisation department that has been given a comprehensive responsibility for key areas of competition policy, IT policy and management and personnel policy. The Ministry of Modernisation shall take full account of the modernisation work carried out by the State and contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Government's work on modernisation and user rights in the public sector. Public sector and public services are provided for individuals and businesses, and the perspective of services must be central to public services. At the same time, individuals must be assured that they receive the public services they require when they need them. It's the people who have to be in focus. It requires flexible and targeted public funded services that meet individual needs and wishes. IT is an important key both in the state modernisation process and in order to increase the overall uptake of modernising and simplifying society. The fact that IT policy is now integrated in the Ministry of Modernisation provides opportunities for the establishment of efficient and public-friendly IT solutions in the public sector more quickly. The government also receives broad support for its child and family policies. Safe and healthy conditions of growth for children and young people are among the most important tasks in a society. Responsibilities for the whole of child and youth policies are exercised in interaction between central and local authorities, non-governmental organisations, parents and other resource individuals. The parents are central to a child's life. Therefore, it is important to strengthen the situation of families and to pursue an active family policy that gives children a good start in life. Most children do well, but some people don't have equal opportunities. The government has a strong commitment to children living in low-income families, or experiences heavy challenges in everyday life, such as poverty, bullying, insecurity or carelessness. In the 2005 budget, the Government has received broad support to strengthen efforts to combat poverty among children and young people. The resources for youth action in larger urban communities shall be increased. They shall be used, inter alia: for holidays and leisure activities for children and young people and for measures for young people with disabilities. Children living in violent families should receive better help and efforts to combat violence against women and children should be reinforced. The number of children affected by life crimes is increasing strongly. Breakup is a tragedy for many children. The government has received broad support to increase efforts to address life problems and life crimes and to focus on a more comprehensive prevention of family work. It is also widely agreed that family policies should facilitate the combination of professional activities with care and time for family life between women and men. Mothers want paid work, and fathers become increasingly aware of their responsibilities as a father and a home worker. It presupposes good leave rights, adequate childcare facilities, continuation of cash support and measures promoting equality between mother and father. The birth grant scheme must be based on the fact that parents are equivalent caregivers. Fathers must be entitled to maternity benefits based on their own professional activity and their share of employment. For this reason, the Government of the 2005 budget has taken its first step towards this objective. It was adopted as we know it at Odelstinget earlier today. Family policy must be based on freedom of choice and fair distribution. Right wants parents to have freedom of choice with regard to the choice of care solutions for the smallest children. They must be able to choose between kindergarten and cash support. Greater justice in state transfers to parents who do not choose kindergarten was also an important reason for the introduction of cash support. It is not fair that government subsidies should only benefit those who have kindergarten facilities. At the same time, freedom of choice and fair distribution must mean giving it to those who want kindergarten. The development of kindergartens is a high priority in the 2005 budget. Kindergartens for everyone who wants to do so are the most important element of growth policy, because kindergartens contribute to positive growing-up conditions and work in a socially balanced way in society. Good kindergartens are a prerequisite for gender equality, and women's opportunities in working life. They are a prerequisite for the freedom of choice of parents with regard to care solutions. If we are to be able to develop safe and sustainable communities with stable housing and access to skilled labour, kindergartens are as important as school and health services. We have a diverse kindergarten sector, and the Right wants to secure and further develop a diverse kindergarten tradition with a great diversity. Kindergarten reform is a major welfare reform that requires a great deal of a lot of people. There has never been so much construction activity in the kindergarten sector, and kindergartens are being built as never before. Many of the new places have gone to children who expand their space from part-time to full-time, only 10,000 places. The government follows up the kindergarten agreement on increased appropriations and state full funding of new regular posts. Further steps are now being taken towards non-discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens. The objective of full childcare coverage and the introduction of maximum price step 2 is established. The Ministry will have final status on expansion in 2004 in the new year 2005. This will be important, together with ECON's assessment of the introduction of stage 1, when the Government of Spring 2005 provides a big message on the experience of maximum price step 1 and phase-in of equivalent treatment of municipal and private kindergartens in relation to government grants. Cash support is an important family policy reform which, together with kindergartens and maternity leave, gives parents freedom of choice in care solutions for children. ==References== 70,000 children, that's beyond 70 pst. by one- and two-year-olds, receiving cash support. Even with a fully-fledged kindergarten sector at max. 2, there will be a great many who want to combine cash support with part-time work in kindergarten. Cash support is important for a group of parents who work at adverse times, and where it may be difficult to obtain kindergarten. For these parents, cash support will provide a better opportunity to find care solutions for their children than kindergarten. Removing the cash support, as proposed by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left in its alternative budget for next year, is fundamentally unsocial and threatens the freedom of choice of families. Many of these children would probably not have been in kindergarten even if the cash support was removed, but the families of children would have a worse economy. So to say overnight, the families of children would have been deducted net amount of NOK 3657. In addition, it would deprive parents of the freedom to choose which care solution is best for them. The right will be a guarantor of the maintenance of the cash support. We want to build kindergartens for everyone who wants to, and we want to extend the leave of fathers and make it possible to combine different care solutions to ensure freedom of choice for families.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e88	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e91	I need to correct an obvious misunderstanding. Saying 'overnight' was now a little drowsy. The Labour Party has said: ‘to wind up the scheme from 1 June’. It's not overnight, I guess. After this post to the representative Sjøli, I could say, with the shisslas: think 'about the whole world had it so well'. But that's not how it is. That is why the Labour Party has said that we must have a child representative who should act as a watchman to those who do not have it so well. I just wonder what the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli feels when she has been on a note that says in the setting, where it underlines: ‘The Children’s Ombudsman shall have a free and independent role. The majority, however, are concerned that the Children’s Ombudsman is acting in such a way that it is perceived as agitating for a particular political viewpoint. In the population, this may be seen as a combination of roles, which may in turn weaken the legitimacy of the Ombudsman.’ Could it be possible to ask whether this could be related to the child ombudsman’s statements on the cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e103	We are concerned that the Children's Ombudsman should have a free and independent role and, of course, should have the opportunity to speak the children's case. It's kind of the role of the Children's Ombudsman. But we have experienced, as the representative has so rightly pointed out, that the Children's Ombudsman has taken a clear political position on a question of cash support, without it being possible to substantiate his claims. That's kind of what's been our starting point. If you want to achieve such a strong outcome against a politically chosen form of care as the cash support is, it must be documented. So much do I expect from a children's representative, that they are not personal opinions, but that the results that had to come are actually documented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e108	The representative, Mr. Sjøli, says from this chair that what the Children's Ombudsman has said is not well documented. It depends a little on which islands are reading the NOVA report that the Children’s Ombudsman has said about. It is not stated in this note that the Children’s Ombudsman did not express himself in line with the truth of the cash support. It says here that he is agitating for a particular political view. What does the Right mean by that? And then I'm going to ask another question, and it's about the state's resources in relation to the supervision of child protection institutions. Here, the Right Party of the Christian People’s Party and the Centre write in a note that ‘criteria for the approval of child protection institutions are established’. But this has nothing to do with the piece of supervision. What do you really mean by the comment here, that this should be better the role of the statesmen? It's the resources of the statesmen that are a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e115	I am convinced that the Children's Ombudsman has not provided any research to substantiate his claims that the cash support could be a threat to children who are suffering from care failure, abuse and abuse. That's what the reaction came up. I maintain that he will of course be allowed to say what he wants, to whom he wants. But it's important for a children's representative to have legitimacy in the population. And if it is that someone then eventually doesn't believe in him, because he hasn't documented his claims enough, it might be a problem. With regard to the supervision of child protection and the resources of the county, there are many who are currently to supervise child protection and, in particular, there will be more supervisory functions in the new regional child protection scheme, not just the county. I have confidence that the County Council will follow up its oversight role in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e122	I also want to enter the children's room. It's not long since this house was dealing with the oversight message provided by Right-State Council Victor D. Norman, and then it was stressed that supervision should have a free and independent role. That is why I found it very special that the Right agrees with that comment and makes itself as critical as they do, to the children's environment. It was very unexpected. My question to the representative, Sjøli, is then: Does the Right also consider stepping up the right to express the rights of equality and the Consumer Environment, in order to require documentation, or does it need to be attached to research reports before they express their views?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e129	I must say I'm glad that the role of the Children's Ombudsman is more involved. I just have to stress again what I have said in my two previous answers, that of course the Children's Ombudsman should have a free and independent role. It's not sharpened into any area at all. But it was, as I said, the outcome that came, we reacted to the fact that cash support is blamed for everything that is wrong with children. That's almost how you could see it. As I said, it is important that the Children’s Ombudsman has a strong position. He shall play an important role. And if the population sees it as a mix of roles, it could weaken the legitimacy of the child ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e136	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e140	The Workers' Party would stress that good public welfare offers provide individual basic security and are a prerequisite for all to have equal opportunities to develop their skills. The provision of services shall be based on the needs of users, be of good quality and have room for individual adaptations. We also believe that the content and quality of services must determine the choice of organisation and instruments. We do not share the government's strong belief in the separation and privatisation of public activities as a means of achieving better Community solutions. Faith in competition and privatisation becomes an ideology – which is becoming more important than anything else. Separation of own performance units may impair the competence of the administration. On the other hand, we will stress the importance of political governance of public activities. The Workers' Party will warn against developments in the separation of important societal tasks and in which vital decisions are left to governments without responsibility for the overall development of society. Exclusion and decentralisation can also lead to more expensive services for users, and to more administration and bureaucracy. It's e.g. significant costs associated with the implementation of internal invoicing systems. However, this need not be simplified to become a debate for and against competition. Competition can be used as a means of achieving policy objectives. However, I would like to stress that the Community solutions must be taken into account when they conflict with the competition rules. The Workers' Party would stress that public services should be good and effective. Public service offices, service declarations, form simplification, day-to-day management and coordination of legislation and services are good examples of modernising the public sector. In order to ensure good supply and efficient use of resources, it is also necessary to develop and renew the public sector. This requires coordination across departments, a coordination of the Ministry of Modernisation may take place. The working party is concerned that modernisation and renewal should take place in close cooperation with employees. Good change processes depend on cooperation between all participants. I believe that the government is opposing this by weakening arrangements such as the job protection in the Civil Service Act and by changing the maintenance and waiting pay system. I would like to stress that there is a link between the fact that an official is required to perform his statutory duties in an unwarranted manner, and the protection of the position. It is necessary to question the claim that the difference between the Labour Environment Act and the Civil Service Act leads to little mobility between the public and private sectors and whether this is a problem. The need, competence and pay and employment conditions initially govern this. This can be achieved, for example, by: outcomes from the requirement of specific competence during the employment of officials, requirements which may differ in the private sector. A deterioration in the rights of employees can help the opposite. To the extent that there is a need to modernise the Civil Service Act, a sample composed of parties must be set up to assess any changes to the arrangements for civil servants. I would like to stress the need for a well-functioning working life, which is characterised by a balance between labour supply and demand, high professional participation, space for all, security and safe working conditions. It is therefore essential to follow up the IA Agreement on an inclusive working life in the country. With regard to the supervision of public services, I would like to point out that the county offices have been entrusted with many new tasks in recent years. Despite this, appropriations for 2005 are below the 2003 level. There is therefore reason to ask questions as to whether the supervisory tasks are properly carried out. These are tasks that safeguard the legal certainty of individuals and are therefore important in a democratic society. In particular, the supervision of child protection is important. It is essential for the children in such a situation that the quality of the supply is good enough. It is therefore important that supervision functions in such a way that errors and shortcomings in the provision of services are followed up. We are doing a re-priority of money from the Competition Authority, which has been greatly increased in the draft budget, to the county offices. Its purpose is, among other things: to contribute to better supervision of child protection. It is vital for the children that we have a well-functioning child and youth protection. I think it is worrying when we hear that the number of requests for child protection is increasing. This says a lot about social development. It is important that these children get help quickly. Some time ago, I had an interpellation about child protection. In this regard, the Council of State, Laila Davøy, said that we do not have so-called folder children, i.e. matters waiting for investigation. I would like to stress the importance of not having such cows again. There's reason to remind you that we're talking about individuals who need help. The Labour Party believes that good growth and living conditions for children and young people need to be facilitated. For families with children, it is particularly important to have a predictable and secure financial framework. Unemployment contributes to the opposite and can lead to economic and social problems, which in turn affect children. Work for all is therefore essential for the individual’s economic security and to prevent social differences. The welfare society should not be for the few, but for the absolute all. I believe that the government has not done enough in the fight against new poverty, and that the 2005 state budget creates greater divisions in Norwegian society. It has to be more, not less, to get people to work. In fact, there is something in the old saying, "When the crib is empty, bite the horses". Domestic violence is not a private matter, but a social problem. Only the one who has been subjected to violence knows what a humiliation it is. Those who are subjected to violence need qualified help immediately. When violence occurs in the home, there must be an offer to care for those who are exposed to the violence, and not least the children, who are always the innocent party. A majority of the Committee has adopted a decision on the state financing of the crisis centres of 80 p.m. and 20 pst. from the municipalities. The crisis centres usually include women who have experienced domestic violence or rape. It is important that the State has an offer to the raped, whether it is at a rape ward or other medical or hospital facility. It is important that a well-qualified assistance service to those at risk of rape is readily available and that victims of rape ensure an equivalent offer across the country. As far as crisis response is concerned, we know that many crisis centres are struggling financially. It is therefore important to ensure these large enough public funding. I am therefore pleased that a new financing system for crisis centres has been adopted in the Stortinget. This will ensure the importance of the provision of centres to women and children in very difficult situations. Now the next challenge is to ensure the incest centres' economic stability and financial ability to increase the competence of those working there. I'm afraid incest has existed for centuries, but now this problem is on the political agenda, and it's up to us politicians to ensure the operation of this important crisis response. Most children grow up in safety in Norway, and of course we are happy about that. But we must not be so satisfied with ourselves that we forget those who are not well. Then we have to be able to look beyond our own country and think of all those who come here as asylum seekers, without mother and father. Minor asylum seekers need more than some to be taken care of by qualified child protection in order to be helped to deal with trauma, anxiety and loneliness. In this sweet Christmas season, as it is called, we should have room for care for those who need an adult and safe hand to hold in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e182	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e185	The typical cash support mother works part-time and has mostly evening and night work or weekend work. Cash support is important for a group of parents who work at adverse times, and it may be difficult to obtain kindergarten. It is gratifying to see that the representative Giske has also enjoyed this arrangement. Removing the cash support, as the Workers' Party will, is clearly unsocial. Many of these children would probably not have been in kindergarten even if the cash support had been removed, but the families would have had a worse economy. Does the representative really not see the Fall, who is a socially engaged person, how unsocial it is to remove the cash support so to speak overnight, without the children having the opportunity to have kindergarten? So what are they going to do? The working party says in the financial position that they will remove the cash support from 1 March, but in the trade committee they say 1 June. The question is whether it is possible to agree with yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e194	Typical Right! They have to keep up with the swings. We have said that we will wind it up from 1 June. It was adopted in the context of the financial situation. If you read it, you'll see it there. But so on with the cash support and whether to remove it overnight. There's no question about it. We go in to provide opportunities for good care in the nursery. We believe that securing the cash support is not the best solution. Because there's no question about it improving the family's economy. Maybe some of these women actually would have been out in work. Isn't it worrying to the Right that women are prevented from doing what they want most? So I want to ask the jam right back – but that might not be possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e203	You'll have to do it another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e206	I have lots of questions!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e211	In this article and in a number of other contexts, the Labour Party has expressed scepticism for the free play of market forces and fears that strong capitalists dominate the market and make arrangements that weaken democracy and the position of consumers. Competition supervision is our weapon against those who abuse their market power. Oversight this year has been given almost a whole new law to deal with, with a large degree of revision. In addition, challenges have been faced by implementing a shift imposed on them by the majority of population. With these challenges and with the Workers' Party's constant call for market forces, the Workers' Party proposes a cut of 9 million. to the supervision. This appears to me eye-catching and directly illogical. If you're worried about an area, why are you kissing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e216	Competition supervision shall ensure fair and fair competition in accordance with laws, regulations and administrative provisions. But when we now amended the Competition Act, I must be allowed to smile a little. In fact, something was corrected in the committee, but the proposal made by the Progress Party made it even more bureaucratic! So I don't know if I'm so concerned with the attitude of the Progress Party and think about the performance of the Competition Authority. In addition, at the county council, we spend that money on control, security and security, so that children can feel a stronger security for their everyday lives. We actually believe that that is a much more important priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e225	The Labour Party's fight against the family is expressed more than just through the attitude to the cash support and that you want to choose on behalf of the families. In the examination of the Child Protection Communication, the Committee concluded that when the family fails to function and one has to take a step as a care take-over, other resources in another biological family should be considered first, while in today’s setting the Workers’ Party is not included in a comment that also says that one should first look at resources in another biological family. Then I wonder: is it such that you think there are no grandmothers and grandparents, some aunts and uncles who can step in, and that sometimes it can be a better situation for the children to get in than to have to get into a whole stranger and new setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e232	I think it is so nice that no Christian People's Party has more faith in child protection in Norway. Child protection is, of course, the key to the professional assessment of what is best for children at all times, and they do so inexorably. There is no prohibition on using close families as foster parents or on taking care of them. But that must be a professional assessment. Actually, I think child protection has the best thing to do. When it comes to the best of the children, I actually want, although it is not a direct question, to give a small example of this sacred cash support. It could have actually given four to five months of additional maternity leave or two years of six hours, which had also been very good for the children, and which had given the family opportunities to a far greater extent than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e239	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e243	I'm going to start by saying a few words about Framework Area 1 – The Ministry of Modernization. It is no secret that the Advance Party was the party most critical of Meyer's predecessor, Norman. We had hoped that Norman would become a state council that provided for a revolution in central government in the form of efficiency improvement, competitive outsourcing and other administrative reforms. However, we were disappointed. The only thing he'll be remembered for is some questionable bills and a senseless move of some state supervision. We see in these days how this movement has gone. The relocation of the Air Safety Authority is about to end with a total failure. The transfer of the other supervision has resulted in considerable costs and the closure of many competent people. There is little doubt that the quality of supervision is impaired. The result has been that some jobs have been moved around the map. However, there will be no more jobs in Norway. So far, we haven't seen such thoughts at Meyer State Council. We therefore have another hope of speeding up the modernisation process, and we hope that the title of the Council of State, the Minister of Modernisation, will bear this in mind. It is important for the Progress Party that public administration be made as simple and cost-effective as possible. Norway has major challenges here. It is our hope that the Ministry of Modernisation will be an engine for this work in consultation with the other administration. We are at the top of the world in terms of the proportion of public sector employees. If we compare with other countries, it is beyond doubt that Norway has a growth in the public sector that is out of control. Over some years, the number of new jobs in the public sector is above 30 per cent. daily — every day throughout the year — when you look at it statistically. Both in Sweden and Denmark, this development has been stagnated, without these countries being accused of ravaging their welfare systems. In Norway, however, the arrow points only one way up. There is a great need for specific projects in terms of efficiency and competitive outsourcing. We need to get a hold of this area. If it had been done in the past, perhaps the crisis in Kommune-Norway that we are constantly hearing about would not have been so great. If it had been taken into account in both state, state and municipalities such as using competitive outsourcing, many municipalities and counties could have saved large amounts. So a few words about Framework Area 2 – The Ministry of Children and Family. This year we have had very good budgetary cooperation with the government parties on all the framework areas of the family, cultural and administrative budget. But in some fields there is still a significant distance between lots. This applies, inter alia, to: the State appropriations for equal opportunities and for gay organisations. The Progress Party believes that it is wrong to establish and operate selective measures for healthy and ready-to-work adult people only on the basis of their gender or sexual orientation. We believe that women and men, whether heterophilic or homosexual, know their own needs and rights, and we believe that they themselves can take care of them in relation to any discrimination that may take place. We actually think that making such special measures is to devalue the individual in relation to their sex or sexual orientation. Kindergartens are also located within the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. As far as kindergartens are concerned, the Progress Party is committed to the agreements and settlements we have agreed on. This applies to development, maximum price and non-discrimination. In the financial position, we also got the government parties to say that, in the context of the issues raised by the spring party, we should have an assessment of the unit cost principle, in order to achieve greater equal treatment between private and public kindergartens. And we are very pleased about that. Another area within the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs is the cash support, which has been the subject of considerable debate in the previous two posts and the exchange of replies. In this field, we see continuous attacks by the socialist parties. The working party and SV seem to be life-savers of schemes that increase the individual’s freedom of choice. Parents who choose kindergartens receive substantial public support. There's no doubt about it. The cash support is a small compensation for those who choose differently. This provides flexibility in the form of care as many demand. Cash support is an important family policy measure that gives children freedom of choice and more time. Back there I started, with frame area 1: Within this field we find, among other things. the county offices. In the view of the Progress Party, these should be kept in substantially tighter lines than at present. It is clear that the county offices are doing a large and important job within, among other things. control activities, but may often be detrimental to local democracy. We will refer here to the document No. 8:90 for 2003-2004, proposal to limit the right of objection in matters of planning and area by the county. Finally, I registered the representative Fallet's answer to my question regarding the lack of funding from the Workers' Party to the Competition Authority. However, I am not quite sure if I understood the answer – or what should have been the answer. It was something about what the Progress Party had proposed in connection with the law, but there was no clear and clear response to the question I actually asked: When you express such scepticism to the market forces and the dominant players in business, why do you go into the allocation of the Competition Authority, which is actually the only solid weapon we have, against those who abuse their market power? I think it is directly illogical that, when you are very concerned about an area, you cut it down. I can't quite understand that. Of course, we also agree that close control should be exercised in the area of child protection, just as the Workers' Party is calling for, but that we should take money from the Competition Authority to achieve this, seems pointless to the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e277	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e280	The Progress Party writes in a note that they wish to wind up the Equality Centre, but are aware that such closure must take place over several years, for the sake of employees. How do you imagine this slowdown, how many years are you going to maintain the Equality Centre? Question 2 concerns the development of kindergartens. 23 250 children were on the waiting list in August this year. The party of progress, together with the government parties, has put in appropriations for 9 000 new posts. We need many, many more. I know it's an estimate. But does not the Progress Party agree that a clear political signal is being given that there are 9,000 new places to be built here? The Advance Party can guarantee that it will stand for what is stated in this note – that if it is built more, for example. 20 000 new places, will they be funded by the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e287	As far as I understand it, the budgetary rules state that an estimate is actually an estimate. When we and the government parties say clearly that if we end up in 20,000 new places, it'll be the actual fasit, and then you can relate to it. I don't know how things are with SV, but when the Progress Party writes something in a note, it's actually so that we mean what we write. In the case of the Equality Centre, the Progress Party has intervened for significant cuts in that area. We don't see any reason to maintain it beyond a horizon of one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e294	I just want to say to the last thing that was said, that if the Progress Party and the Government believe that more than 9 000 new children's playgrounds will be built, they will have to budget with it. It is contrary to the budgetary rules, including for estimates, if they are to be budgeted under what is planned. When you say 9,000 new kindergartens, that's what the state council is going to do, and that's what the department's policy is going to do -- that's what it's going to do. It's very special that you reduce ambitions when we're long on form in the first two years. It's very hard to explain. Another thing that is difficult to explain with the Progress Party's action in the context of kindergarten treatment in the Committee is that where the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre now join forces and are concerned that equal treatment between private and public kindergartens will not be the result, where the Advance Party jumps off. The main issue of the party was that private kindergartens should now have the same framework conditions as the public. When we see that this might not be the result, for example. because we have a different cost development, we have pension costs and a quality increase to ensure that children in private kindergartens get the same thing as those in public, then the Progress Party is no longer with it. I wonder what the reason is for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e301	I should like to leave page 65 in the setting of the representative Trond Giske, because he could hardly have read what was written there. It says: ‘This means that if it is built e.g. 20 000 new places, all these will be financed by the State.» It is a clear and clear statement from the majority in this case. As regards non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens, the Progress Party has been the main champions of this. I can't see where Trond Giske got it from. It is also, in fact, further down on page 65, referred to the decision taken during the treatment of the financial situation, to which I also referred in my main report, on the principle of unit costs which could provide even better equal treatment between private and public kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e313	I hardly think it is such that a note on page 65 of a budget statement from the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration can change the budget regulations of the Stortinget. With the method of the Advance Party, we could have saved a lot of dollars. We could have set the target at 20,000 unemployed next year, not 100,000. Then we could have put up the budget after that, because it's also an estimate, and then we could have spent the money on tax bills or other bad purposes. But that's not the way budgeting is. It must be said that this is what we want, this is what is realistic. We want 14,000 babysitting places, then we have to find space for it in our alternative budget. You can't say that a budgeter of 9 000, and even if it was 20 000, you get the money. 100 000 unemployed also receive money, even if you budget with zero, because that is an estimate. The question is: what is the goal of the Progress Party, what signal do you want to give to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs? We, the majority in this room – the Advance Party, SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party – could have ordered her to build 14,000 seats. It'll probably be 9,000, maybe fewer, thanks to the fact that the Progress Party has joined the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e322	Trond Giske would like to continue to give his interpretations of the budget regulations, but the fact is that it's inside this book, which is the setting we're dealing with today, it says what the majority of people want in the post on kindergartens. It says, among other things: on pages 64 and 65, and I have now quoted the most important and most central points of Trond Giske. I can't see that it leads to further repetitions, as it doesn't seem that Trond Giske will understand. For our part, then, we stand firmly by our promises and the points of view we have made in the past, as it says here: ‘This means that if it is built e.g. 20 000 new places, all these will be financed by the State.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e330	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e333	The Socialist Left Party is committed to maintaining a strong and vital public sector that ensures access to welfare services according to needs, irrespective of economic or social resources. The government’s regulation for the modernisation of the public sector emphasises greater efficiency, and the instruments are competitive outsourcing and privatisation. Competition has clear limitations, particularly in terms of distribution and environmental considerations. Competition does not guarantee fair distribution either. The OECD carried out a study in 2002 on the experience of the launch and release of public services. Most of the countries included in the OECD study have gained the same negative experience. The launch and release of competition have proved to be bureaucratic, inefficient and undemocratic. Politicians' control of welfare services is weakened, as are people's confidence in services, administration and the political system. We are reducing in our alternative budget cap. 1500 with 40 million. to the modernisation work of the Government. A crucial prerequisite, we believe, for a better public sector is a human resources policy that is motivating. The former State Council of the Ministry of Labour and Administration would have total cost calculations in the case of conversion, because this would make the effect visible and make decision-makers aware. We agree with that, and we also submit a proposal on that. Bad municipal economy over several years has led to continuous conversion in several municipalities. This, in turn, has led to great wear and tear and a high level of sick leave. An employer policy must be pursued in the public sector where equal pay, working time, career opportunities and opportunities to develop skills are key elements. Part-time jobs that do not confer social security rights must be abolished. It must be a right to have a full-time job, and shiftwork and rotation must be equated, because otherwise there is a breach of the Equality Act. SV wants more projects with the six-hour day. We promote proposals for social accounts in the conversion of the country, an equal pay commission and a statement on the use of small positions in the country and municipality and what it means for the development of equal pay in Norway. The people have reported that they do not have enough resources to carry out their tasks. Some statesmen have no capacity to implement more than 50 pst. by the supervision of the protection of children. This is very serious! At the same time, the county has set up its own posts to take care of the Government's commitment to conversion and to improve the efficiency of municipalities. This is badly related to the municipal freedom of the government, and a clear political role is assigned here to the county. SV increases the county budget by 50 million. to strengthen supervisory tasks, including: in the protection of children. A society offering equal opportunities and rights to children and young people needs to be provided. Child poverty must be combated. It cannot be accepted that there are thousands of children in Norway, in the richest countries in the world, living under persistent poverty. Labour relations and return to the labour market of parents and sole dependants who have been excluded from the labour market are one of the best ways to reduce long-term poverty. Kindergarten is good for children. The maximum price and full child care coverage are a prerequisite for children’s families to have a genuine freedom of choice as regards child care solutions. It was a happy day when the kindergarten agreement was a fact in the spring of 2003. We believe that the agreement has not been followed up in this draft budget, because only 9 000 new kindergartens have been allocated. It's an estimate, but it gives a political signal when the majority goes in for 9 000 places. SV contributes funds to 5,000 additional nursery places in its alternative budget. We would also like to make it clear that it is absolutely necessary to put in place the maximum price step 2 from 1 August 2005 so that we get the real need for kindergarten places on the table. At least we learned that from the introduction of maximum price step 1, that the lower the price, the more space is needed. It has been shown that the cash support does not work as intended. It has not significantly increased the time that parents and children have together. SV will have a family policy that facilitates good care for children, while at the same time enabling parents to combine parenthood and work through equal parenthood. SV removes the cash support in its budget from 1 January 2005, as we have done in the last four budgetary rounds. We use the funds in our alternative budget mainly for measures for children and young people, better leave rights for self-employed people, we expand the family quota, we strengthen gender equality work, and we adjust the price of child benefit. Child social security is one of the most important cash transfers to families with children who function in relation to poverty. In St.meld. No 6 for 2002–03; Action plan against poverty, the Government has just shown that child welfare is an important source of income for low income groups. Adoption aid is slightly lower in Norway than in the other Nordic countries, and we raise the adoption aid to the basic amount of population benefit, 1 G, in the alternative budget of the SV. Child protection suffers from a lack of resources to help children and parents in a serious crisis. It is necessary to explore more closely the measures we are taking in the field of child protection, so that we know which measures are targeted and good enough. SV strengthens measures in the field of child protection and child care in its budget. In 2003, there was an increase in the number of child protection measures that were granted. 4 pst. There is a large increase in the number of child protection messages, and several municipalities indicate that poor local economy controls the measures. Several municipalities report that the threshold for granting measures is higher than before. SV is concerned about how we care for our minor asylum seekers. It has emerged after the report by Redd Barna that these children are not being followed well enough, and that the offer to them is not good enough. This is discriminatory and is contrary to the Children's Convention. It said in Moss Avis for approx. three weeks ago that child protection did not follow up these children, despite the fact that concerns have been sent from the reception. This underpins the Redd Barna report. We therefore promote the proposal that minor asylum seekers under the age of 18 should be protected by child protection upon arrival in Norway and treated in the same way as Norwegian children who are without caregivers. It is a discrimination that these children do not have the same rights as Norwegian children who do not have caregivers around them. The crisis and incest centres play an important role for violent and incestuous women and children. We are pleased that the crisis centres are now receiving more predictable funding in 2005, but will recall that the incest centres are still in the same uncertain financial situation as before. SV provides equal funding for the incest centres and for the crisis centres in the budget. The Government proposes to reduce the grant to the National Association of Lesbian and Homofile Liberation. The reason is that the Government believes that the anti-discrimination project conducted by the organisation should be terminated. SV believes it is essential that this project be continued in order to combat prejudice and discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians. Here I actually think we should all think about ourselves well after the fall we've had in this big business, and we're increasing this appropriation by 700,000 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e371	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e374	A mandatory third of the maternity leave, as SV suggests, may lead to the loss of families above NOK 100000 if one of the parents cannot take out his or her part of the leave. Some mothers are sick or very tired after a heavy pregnancy and need to be home longer than their share. When the birth money goes away – because the family doesn't fit into SV's pattern – the families with the worst advice are hit the hardest. It's probably just a mother or father with good advice who can afford to be at home beyond the ratio SV will distribute. So my question is: doesn't SV see that the mandatory third of the maternity leave scheme that they recommend so strongly will affect families socially, and that there will be a strong over-management of parents' choice of care for their own children?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e381	I get to say it again, what I said when we dealt with the feather quota here earlier today: we haven't suggested this third. We have asked for an investigation into the Icelandic model – that is what we have proposed. And then it's not like the representative Afshan Rafiq says, that if mother is sick, this will go out on mom. In fact, in Norway today, if you are ill after birth, dad can take that leave. This is done in many cases, and it is also done when mothers are hospitalised and are ill with pregnancy. Then Dad can be sickened to care for children they already have. Then we'll adjust child welfare. It has not been done since 1995, and it is a great loss for the families. We also do not remove the infant supplement, as the government parties have done, which is very targeted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e390	From the Progress Party, and also – as I understand it – from the Government, cash support is seen as a flexible and good reform that gives increased freedom of choice and more time to the children. However, when I read the comments of the SV and the Workers' Party, it says that this is not an increase in freedom of choice. Well, I didn't quite understand that! If you choose to be at home and choose to work full time, isn't it just a practice of freedom of choice? I could imagine hearing the SV's definition of freedom of choice. Is SV's definition of freedom of choice to choose what SV decides? Is that the only option?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e399	SV's freedom of choice is probably also the freedom of choice of the Advance Party, because we have been together to say that as long as we do not have full child care coverage in this country, we do not have freedom of choice. We have spent NOK 20 billion on cash support so far, and we spend NOK 4 billion next year. It's not accurate. It has meant that you are one and a half hours more with your children, but then it is not included in the assessment that men with children work more overtime than men without children do. Then we're back to the 1950s, when Mother was at home on the kitchen bench, and my father only saw me on Sundays. He worked overtime because it was economically impossible to make this happen. Price-adjusted child benefit, small children's allowance and maximum price step 2 in kindergartens with full needs coverage, we believe that we actually give a greater freedom of choice for families than cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e406	There are things that get a little fuzzy here, but now SV is going to have an opportunity to give a little clearer answers. One third of the maternity leave is proposed in the SV’s programme, and the SV’s representatives, among others. Heikki Holmås, has been out and fronted the matter of a mandatory third quite powerful. It's no wonder that some of us believe that this is what SV stands for. The Christian People's Party believes that this is a bad idea, which is among other things. District Enemy. It will be incredibly difficult for mothers who are breast-feeding, and who live in a small village in the interior of Agder, to be able to maintain breast-feeding, if you have only one bus, that goes out of the village in the morning and into again in the afternoon. It will be difficult to get opportunities for breast-feeding with a mandatory third. It will also be that if your mother is not sick enough to get sick, but knows that your body does not function completely after birth, your mother will not be able to take the part that becomes mandatory for your father. We believe that will also weaken those who have it tough after a birth, and it will be a policy for super families.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e415	I will clarify again: we have made a proposal for an investigation in relation to the Icelandic model. It is also a proposal in our work programme that this model should be introduced in Norway. The country meeting will decide whether to go for that model or not. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to facilitate an equal parenthood in Norway. What government parties are saying we're going to do is expand the spring quota by four weeks. That means that you force your father to be home for four more weeks. What we're saying is we're going to extend the length of maternity leave, and then we're going to say that one third of that father is going to be able to get, one third is going to be able to get mother, and one third is optional. The breast-feeding process is actually such in this country that most people are full-time for six months. It's a long way within Mother's leave. That's how we breast-feed up to one year, we who had ten and twelve weeks' leave as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e424	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e427	On the front page of Our Country on 9 December we could read that ‘Children are asking for more time with adults’. More time with adults comes high on the list of children's Christmas wishes. The middle between Barbie and mobile phone comes to want more time with the adults higher and higher up on the Christmas wish lists. Now it's not long until Christmas Eve, and the question is whether we're now creating a society where it's possible. We know that for nearly 80 000 to 90 000 children, the cash support has allowed families to choose the form of care that best suits their daily lives. In other words, the Christian People's Party gives the children and the parents what they themselves want, namely the hard packages, while the left-hand side gives the soft packages that mother state thinks they must have. For some, kindergarten is what best suits their everyday lives. So, with the government's and Storting's offensive bet in kindergartens at a reasonable price and the possibility of using cash support, it's a little better prepared for families to get their everyday lives together. A new study shows that there are several users of the cash support. The left-hand fears that this would lead to increased use of day-olds, especially 'black' day-olds, have not been turned on. The evaluation of the cash support, which was submitted by the Labour Party Government, but ordered by Bondevik I, shows that in the cases where the cash support was used, children were mainly cared for by one of the parents in two thirds of the cases. The interesting thing about this study is that it shows that many people who currently use the cash support have a relationship with the labour market either on paid or unpaid leave. It confirms what I have said in some contexts: today's young people may not want to be home for 18 years, as part of the parental regeneration was given the opportunity, but for a few years, while the children are young. Then the challenge is to get more fathers to take care of them at home. Here, the spring quota is an important tool. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the step we are now taking to give even more fathers the right to earn on their own basis. It is a goal of the Christian People's Party to extend the feather quota, and it should be added to existing leave. I see that part of both the Workers' Party and the SV is in charge of a third. We in the Christian People's Party think that is a very bad idea. Today it is nine weeks that are reserved for mother, four weeks are reserved for father, and the rest can be shared. It's up to families to decide for themselves. Although it is gratifying to think that we are getting ahead of equality by locking it in three parts, I would warn against this. This is a setup for super mothers and super families who don't live in the district. If Mom, for example. is the founder and needs to get out of work quickly, there will be no longer the possibility for father to take most of the leave. Or if, for health reasons, the mother is unable to combine work with a newborn but has nursing capacity, the family will lose three months of birth money. That could be up to $100,000 to the minus, and it's not easy at the start-up stage. The Equality Ombudsman also warns against this, because it is a point of balance where we can risk getting parents out of work instead. We need good and flexible solutions that facilitate different types of choices. A good offer for families with children requires a good kindergarten offer. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the entire Committee stresses that a high-quality childcare facility should be characterised, and that everyone stresses that there is no need to make changes to the laws and regulations that reduce the quality of children's daily lives. The Christian People's Party emphasises that the objective of full child care coverage and the introduction of flexible max. price step 2 is established. In the kindergarten agreement, it has been established how these two main elements are to be implemented. In the agreement, it is stated: ‘The maximum limit for the parental payment is set at 1500 kroner per year. a month in kindergartens from 1 August 2005, subject to an approximation of the full level of needs to be met in 2005. [[step 2]] [[2002-krone price and cost adjusted]] If the objective of near full coverage of needs is not achieved in 2005, the date of introduction of step 2 at the maximum price has to be re-assessed.» The Ministry will be given final status for expansion in 2004 in the new year 2005. This material, together with ECON’s evaluation of the introduction of the maximum price level 1, will be important in the preparation of the forecasted gross domestic product notification coming in spring 2005 and will also look into the expected expansion in 2005. Not all families manage the important job of giving their children a safe and healthy upbringing. In the current period, the size has dealt with several issues in the field of child protection. It is a quite significant and comprehensive reform that is now in the implementation phase. The acquisition by the State of the second line service in the field of child protection took place on 1 January 2004. This conversion creates an increased need for training in the various departments in order to ensure consistency between legislation and practice. Unfortunately, in 2004 the history of child protection reveals that children have been abused. For the Christian People's Party, it is a fundamental goal that children and young people living in a child protection institution are guaranteed a good offer with high legal certainty. We need to be sure that children for whom society has taken care of, and who are very vulnerable, are not subjected to new abuses. It is particularly important that the public ensure that this group of vulnerable children is not subjected to abuse when under public care. We are therefore pleased that from 1 January there has been a state authorisation system and an amended regulation on the supervision of child protection institutions. There will be alarming reports that despite vigorous efforts it has not succeeded in getting enough foster home supervisors. It is important that all children in foster homes are appointed supervisors. The Committee asks the Ministry to monitor developments in this field closely. Supervisors are very important to ensure good foster homes for children and young people. Good foster home provision is essential for child protection. Recruitment and training, via PRIDE, must be continued. The Committee visited the Helgerud Home Resource Centre in the Region of East during the fall and received insight into a 24-hour foster home watch call service. It is essential for foster homes to be able to contact someone to ask for advice and guidance when situations arise at home. Such situations do not always occur within the office hours. The Committee asks the Ministry to consider how this experience can be shared with other regions. Through the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002, the Stortinget underlined that child protection now had an increased focus on the need for family and networks, local solutions and provision to be a starting point for the work of child protection. The Committee would stress the importance of finding measures that strengthen the family's ability to provide children with good care and growth. Home-Start Family contact Norway is a voluntary prevention measure for families with young children in a difficult life situation. The Committee is pleased that Home-Start will receive a 2 million grant. kr to especially follow up families with chronically ill and disabled children, a group that has it extra difficult in our society. The Christian People's Party is concerned that child protection statistics indicate that a growing proportion of children and young people with refugee and immigrant backgrounds have difficult growth conditions. However, there is insufficient knowledge of methods and responses to this group of children and young people. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees that there is a need for a strengthened knowledge base for child protection to address different issues and provide children with a better offer in dialogue with children and parents. I will commend the Council of State, Laila Davøy, for her commitment to strengthen the work against children who are subjected to abuse and violence. The Committee agrees that the ‘Children living with violence in the family’ project must be strengthened. In the case of minor asylum seekers, it is important to ensure that they are best cared for when they are in Norway. All children are covered by the Child Protection Act and, in the case of reports of concern, the situation of these children, which for all others are under investigation, and the protection of children, where appropriate, shall take action. There are several happy things about this budget. The adoption aid is increased by 30 pst. for the first time to pass NOK 30000. It has now been established that the initial-born course can be started in 24 municipalities in 2005. We're not done with everything we want to do for the families of children, and we hope the voters will give us new trust after the election, so that the families don't just get soft 'this is for the best for you, because we know best' packages from the next fall, but that they get a hard package that adds up to freedom of choice for the family, in the situation in which the family is in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e473	The Christian People's Party would so much like to think that they themselves put children in the focus of their policies. Unfortunately, however, the number of poor children has increased in recent years. For me, it is not possible to see a different child and family policy at the Christian People's Party than it is important to keep the cash support, so that women stay at home. It is therefore disappointing, I think, that they almost deny that Norway may have street children, by not taking part in the comment that the Children’s Ombudsman will look at this in 2005. What does the Christian People's Party really think must happen in order for us to figure this out, and what means will they use on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e481	We are pleased with the care of the Workers' Party, which believes that we want so much, but not so much. Then I just want to remind the representative, Torny Pedersen, that it was this government, with the councillor, Laila Davøy at the head, who made a family announcement that was historic in Norway. For the first time, one dared to put the family on the agenda, with a comprehensive family policy that was based on a commitment to life, a good parenting and a comprehensive policy around it, also for the families who are struggling. In the case of street children and why we are not involved in this comment: it is because we believe that it should not be the role of the Children's Ombudsman to identify such a problem. It should be the responsibility of the public. It should be the responsibility of child protection and the responsibility of public authorities. If there are street children in Norway, it is different from the Children’s Ombudsman to monitor this. We believe that child protection should address this, and we have not opposed it to finding out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e488	Does the representative of the Christian People's Party think that extending the father's quota for father is freedom of choice? I don't understand. That's the exact same thing when we propose a third and you extend the feather quota that's reserved for father. In the case of cash support, a NOVA report is always referred to. The representative has done that many times. It says an incredible amount. I guess that's also the Children's Ombudsman's comment. It says, for example.\t\t You can change the «Through this study, we have been given insight into processes that show how cash support has helped raise the threshold to apply for kindergarten for the smallest children, and also helps to keep the parents at home there longer. These are consequences that are considered unfortunate for the families who are at the centre of our survey, because it delays the movement into more extensive social contexts for both adults and children.’ It also deals with this with families with low income and families with a minority background, and I'm worried about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e500	Only when it comes to the father quota: we believe that the balance point of having nine weeks to mother and a total of ten weeks – which is what we want – to father when we're done can be a suitable driver to get more people to participate in the home track. But there's a balance point, and a third directly could give $100,000 a minus. With regard to the cash support in the NOVA report, it clearly shows us that the use of kindergarten as a child-rescue measure has not fallen since the cash support was introduced. So that's going to be equal to two times. I would like to read a little message that was in the evening post. There was one who had argued against the cash support: "But then I became the mother of a boy who didn't like the kindergarten. I immediately put a question mark on my and my husband's assignment, what would we have done wrong, all children would prefer to choose kindergarten instead of mother? After a longer assessment, I stopped working and took my son out of the kindergarten, and thanks to the cash support, we managed to do so financially. I experienced a new everyday life full of closeness to my son, thinking and energy could be dedicated to the family in a different way from before». This she will lose with SV's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e514	The representative Eriksen uses as evidence that the cash support is a desired scheme, that there are so many who use it. I guess I would sign it as a proof of the opposite. One cannot automatically conclude that those who do not have children in kindergarten receive cash support, necessarily make it the most desired scheme. The Christian People's Party says they're very concerned with freedom of choice. But freedom of choice must mean that you have several real options to choose from. If both are to choose a professional career, there must be enough nursery places. It is the number one for a real freedom of choice, and there the Christian People's Party slows down the ambitions for kindergarten development, from 12,000 per. years to 9 000 per year. years. The second must be that you have a real opportunity to be at home. I don't know how many representatives Eriksen think can afford to join the job for 4000 kroner a month. Where you can afford or afford to quit work for 4000 kroner a month, it is very often the least-serving person, i.e. The woman, who does. It must be a much better arrangement to spend this money on extending parental leave. Then you get a real choice and you can choose to be home with the children, and both mother and father get that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e521	We have always arranged for it to be a real freedom of choice. That is why we have had the offensive effort we have had in relation to kindergarten development. I just want the representative Giske to listen extra now: we have arranged for 9 000 seats. It will give many more than 9,000 children stays in kindergarten. This year it was prepared for approx. 7,500 places, but there were 5,000 more children than what got space, because we've had some structural changes. So we, together with the Advancement Party, have added up to an offensive expansion to 9 000 places, and that will give room for many more children in kindergarten. In the case of cash support, two thirds of the cash support children are cared for by their parents. I believe that the representative Giske and other parents choose care solutions that are good for their children. Among them is the cash support, as an important part of freedom of choice. The freedom of choice may never be kindergarten or kindergarten, cash support or cash support, but it may be cash support and kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e528	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e531	The centre party wants a family policy based on the freedom of choice for families with children. It is important for the Center Party that it is arranged so that special young children's parents can choose the kind of care they think is best for themselves and their children. Full needs coverage in the nursery sector is a clear commitment if one is to achieve real choice. Unfortunately, the rate of expansion in the nursery sector is too late. The target of full needs coverage by 1 August 2005 remains firm, but signals so far indicate that it may be difficult to achieve this objective. There's a bunch of puddles behind the nursery arrangement. For a long time, there has been a lack of certainty about the time aspect, and I must respectfully claim that the Government and the Council of State do not seem to be looking for measures that can help to increase the rate of expansion. The investment contribution to new places is a good and targeted measure, but it is in my opinion passive by the Government to propose that this be continued at the present level. At least it should have been price adjusted. Cash support schemes have always created a debate. There are many who claim that the scheme is anti-female and anti-equality. For the Centre Party, cash support is a hood that can contribute to the freedom of choice of family members. When it is claimed as negative that about 11,000 women take out cash support to be with their own kids, we believe on the contrary that it is positive and in line with our goal of increasing time together for children and parents. The spring quota should be extended and based on their own cooked dishes. Parental guidance measures and co-operation measures have gradually been widely dismantled. Many parties that were negative to this in the mid-1990s are now fully behind it. That's what the Center Party thinks is very positive. Thinking prevention over repair is a thought that lies close to the Center Party's heart, and I will actually give credit to the Council of State for offensive work in this area. To bet on a more holistic prevention work, such as the provision of a day's life course to all first-time parents, is unparalleled positive. The centre party has been concerned that crisis centres should have a stable and prudent financing mechanism. So essentially we would have 100 pst. State funding, but subsidising 80-20 funding. This has been followed up by the Council of State in the budget proposal. At the same time, it is positive that the Centre now has the possibility to retain contributions and gifts in addition to funding from the State and municipality. In the proposal, it is announced that the Government will submit an agreement on a new management and financing scheme for the incestcentra in the autumn of 2004. So far, the department has not provided anything to Stortinget about this, and there are not many days left in the autumn of 2004. The central party announces in Innst.S. No 226 for 2003-2004 that incestcentra should be financed in the same way as crisis centres. There are many centres that today experience the unworthy situation of walking on beggars to get their budgets to go somewhat together. There is an unsustainable situation. In many contexts, the size has focused on the need for help when needed, and incestsentra provides help and support to some of the weakest in our society, namely the young. Abruption of children by people who are close to them makes the abuse extra stressful. For the Central Party, it is important that a stable and prudent financing mechanism be put in place as soon as possible. Five minutes to two framerange is scarce time. When it comes to Framework Area 1, I would just like to comment briefly on the fact that postponing competition and improving efficiency must not overshadow the objective of the most important thing for individuals to exercise their rights to good and safe services. Not all policy areas are suitable for postponing competition. We're going to facilitate the functioning of the big community, and the efficiency lever of the Government has, in a number of areas, unfortunately led to services that were easily accessible in the past, now being made difficult for both individuals and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e557	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e560	Just a small question to the representative of the Center Party, who says that 11 000 fewer women's annual works are a positive result of the introduction of cash support. SV is concerned that we have equivalent opportunities in the workplace and equivalent opportunities related to being a parent. The Children's Convention clearly states that a child is entitled to two parents. It is also the case that the first two years of a child's life are the most important in terms of attachment. So we not only know that 11,000 more women are at home – it's not among men that there's been fewer annual work – but we also know that men who have children work more overtime than men who don't have children. Does the Central Party really believe that this is a good and important development? These are the results of the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e569	Yes, this is a consequence of the cash support. When the Senter party joined today's cash support scheme in its time, it was with the argument that we wanted parents to be able to choose time with their kids. But I would like to stress that that freedom of choice is not real until we have full coverage in the kindergarten sector. The central party’s cash support model is related to the non-use or non-use of nursery facilities to trigger cash support, but parents really spend time with their children. I believe that there is a fundamental unease between SV and the Center Party in this area, and so far in the programming process before a new expansion option, there is nothing to suggest that the Center Party will change its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e580	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e584	Norway has a welfare level and a standard of living few countries can compete with, but we are also facing major challenges. Our ability to make decisions and implement changes today will largely determine the level and quality of our Community solutions in the future. Higher life expectancy and lower birth rates increase the proportion of older people. This challenges the community in the form of increased expenditure on pensions and a greater need for health and care services. At the same time, we become less active behind each pensioner. We know that petroleum revenues can only make a certain contribution to the financing of the growing public expenditure. Should the generations that come after us have security for our welfare level, changes are necessary. The creation of value in the private and public sectors forms the basis for welfare development and creates security for the good Community solutions. A well-functioning, dynamic and modern public sector means a lot for the creation of value even in the private sector. Therefore, the Government wants the focus on innovation and innovation to be as strong in the public sector as in the private sector. We need to be able to solve public sector tasks in a smarter and less resource-intensive way than what we are doing today. Modernisation is also about adapting services to the different needs of individuals. Such adaptation requires flexible production of public services, with citizens at the centre. A greater degree of custom-made services also increases the scope for better targeting of services. So an important goal for the Government is that the meeting with the public will be easier for most people. In this work, it is important that public administrations make better use of new technologies. Through smarter use of information technologies, the Government will facilitate dialogue between citizens and businesses on the one hand and the public sector on the other. The government sees IT as an important key in modernising and simplifying society. Services that people today spend a lot of time on can be solved more quickly and easily through digital interaction. A wide range of countries see IT development as an increasingly important tool to increase their competitiveness, secure value creation and secure welfare development. The government’s vision is that Norway should be a leading international provider of public electronic services and use IT to create new business opportunities in the business world. At the same time, we must invest in skills and structural changes. The technology shall be used to tear down the silo walls, not build them higher. The IT systems of the management must be capable of interacting across sectors and levels. Obstacles between public authorities shall be removed. This is how we ensure efficient resource use and better public services for citizens. A central principle in the organisation of public activities is the establishment of clear distinctions between administrative and regulatory tasks, service production and supervisory tasks. State service production should be improved in interaction with and in competition between public and private actors. The Government wants more competition to be pursued in several areas, both where there is already a well-functioning market, and in areas where competition can contribute to the creation of a well-functioning market. In order to ensure the resources of 700000 public employees, good human resources policies are essential. Staff policy must aim at maximising the ability of public sector staff to meet citizens' increased and changing public service requirements. Modernisation therefore involves both developing the skills of employees and developing the services offered. The results of the modernisation work will enable us to better meet the challenges of the future – through increased value creation in the public and private sectors, and through more and better targeted services tailored to the needs of citizens and businesses. Modernisation work undertaken by the Government is concerned with taking care of and further developing the important Community tasks — with new solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e608	The draft budget of the Ministry of Modernisation states that the claim that the difference between the Labour Environment Act and the Civil Service Act leads to little ‘mobility’ between the public and private sectors must be called into question. What does that even mean? Furthermore, the proposal states that the Government ‘desires a greater degree of harmonisation of working conditions in the public and private sectors’. I stand here with a feeling that the Council of State will weaken the rights and possibly pension rights of public sector employees. Can the Government order me to be wrong? I kind of have a certain impression that the cooperation between the government councils and the employee organisations is not good enough. What does the Council itself feel?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e615	There were many questions, more than 1 minute allowed, but I want to spend time on the most important thing – the need to make changes that create more flexibility and more mobility. In both the private and public sectors, we face a challenge that is linked to the lack of the wise heads, the good hands and the warm hearts. In fact, we are facing a situation where it is important to make changes to relationships that involuntarily lock people into a single sector. If we are to take care of well-being and further develop the safe, good Community solutions, we are facing a reality where we must ensure that the competent labour force flows as far as possible and where we need it most. It is therefore important to reduce barriers between the private and public sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e622	The government is busy with local democracy. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State whether he believes it is right that the county councillors are being allocated funds and posts to push the municipalities of Regeringa's conversion policy. This goes beyond local democracy. Another thing that I brought up with the Council of State in the persuasion debate was proposal No. 3, ‘on the use of small jobs in countries and municipalities and what it means for the development of equal pay in Norway and what concrete measures the Government will take’. He answered me that this was a municipal problem, and that the municipalities had the freedom to fix this for themselves. However, these small positions are precisely those that protect the users – the women employed in these small positions – of whom the Council of State is concerned. In fact, this slows down the development of equal pay in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e629	The answer to the representative May Hansen is yes. I am very pleased that the county officials have been given earmarked resources to assist municipalities with the necessary conversion work. It is reasonable to use money not to build up a parallel competence in all parts of the public sector, but actually to enable municipalities, not least the smallest, to seek good advice and to have good advice in the county offices. It is not the case that the conversion workers of the county officials advocate the policies of the municipalities of the government. But the reality is that for many municipalities, county councils are one of the most important environments that can provide good advice, which can be counsellors, and which can actually contribute to decisions that mean that citizens receive better services within the same financial framework. It's worth spending money on in the future too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e636	It is not unknown that the Workers' Party disagrees with the Government's strong belief in the separation and privatisation of public enterprises. We believe that exemption often leads to more expensive services for users and to more administration and bureaucracy – I only mention the internal billing system. The right gives the impression that they will put out competition and privatise for the privatisation itself. The Council of State does not see the uncertainty that exists among employees in state enterprises with constant restructuring, redundancies and transformation into sub-companies, change in unemployment benefit, change in waiting wages, etc.? Does the Council of State think this is the right strategy to motivate employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e643	This government does not have privatisation as a strategy in the modernisation process. I must remind the representative, Torny Pedersen, that privatisation reached its peak under the government of Stoltenberg in months before the Cooperation Government joined. I hardly think that the sale of SND Invest, as this government is behind, can be said to be a threat to well-being and community solutions. On the other hand, we continue to believe that conversion is necessary also in areas where the Workers' Party has now chosen to back up and return to the solutions of the past and yesterday. One example: the conversion of the Road Service’s production activities will actually bring benefits to citizens and business; it will amount to approximately 600 million. kr more for road and road maintenance than before conversion. Such changes are worth continuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e650	State Council Meyer is not only a minister of modernisation, but also an important player in the field of culture. He is responsible for the practice of the competition law in relation to the industry agreement for the book industry. We have become aware through the media that the Council of State and the Government have granted exemptions from the Competition Act for a book business agreement. We think that is positive. A transitional arrangement has also been established, with the existing agreement in some areas in force until 1 January 2006 and until 1 July 2006. In one area, the agreement shall be phased out as from 1 January and bookshops shall be able to make the same discount as book clubs. There is a ambiguity I would like to be clarified. When you cancel this from 1 January, it is the old book business agreement that applies, with 25 pst. Discount both in book clubs and bookstores, or is it the new agreement, where you get a different discount, namely 12.5 pst.? What discount are bookstores and book clubs due after 1 January 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e655	Despite the fact that this is a budget debate, I would like to answer questions about how book buyers can get a better offer in bookstores – and in bookstores – so that we get a better cultural offer overall and lower prices on books. The government has put down some important posts – posts that are absolutely necessary to get the book industry back to the negotiating table. It is the principle that all sales channels should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner and no one should be given an exclusive right to discount the fixed price from the publishers of a book out to the end user. In addition, we have put down posts in relation to the closure of the school book monopoly, and we now have the new book agreement for handling, which will be held at the hearing in the next three months.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e664	Such a perspective falls largely within the scope of a budget debate. It concerns an important part of the responsibility of the Council of State — it is under his department — namely the competition authority. Hopefully, we agree on the goal, namely to be able to read books as much as possible, to buy books at a reasonable price, while publishing – the book industry – has to have framework conditions that ensure that books are widely distributed. We have had a very successful literature and book policy in Norway. We give more books than any other country we can compare to, and we read more books than they do in many other comparable countries. From 1 January, a new regime applies. Then the book clubs and bookstores will give the same discount. And so my question was, what discount? Do you want 12.5 pst, as the new book business agreement says, or are you going to have 25 pst, which is the old discount for the book clubs? This is essential for bookstores, because you can imagine what it would be like for a small bookstore in the district to give 25 pst. in competition with book clubs and with the large chains on the bookseller’s side. I think it's going to be very problematic for the little bookstores, and that should also worry the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e674	This area is a good example of how competition policy and cultural policy can go hand in hand and how important objectives in both areas can be achieved through courage to make changes. I am concerned that more people are going to be happy in books, that more people are going to be happy to read, and that there is going to be more writing and reading in Norway. Trond Giske refers to a very successful policy. That policy also implies that books have become 50 pst. more expensive than other goods over the last few years. It is hardly what stimulates more people to buy good Norwegian literature. So the government has put down some important posts. There is equal treatment for all sales channels. The privileges of one sales channel to discount their customers for a period of time will be liquidated by the Government. We have also made sure that over time school students and municipalities will get cheaper books through the fall of the schoolbook monopoly and that the fixed-price system within the schoolbook area falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e683	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e686	First to the question in the reply: I hope we can get an answer to that in the course of the debate. And if the guy who's waiting at the diplomat's house knows the answer, I hope we can get it brought in. In June 2003, we made a kindergarten settlement, where all the parties in the Stortingen merged to bring about a big boost for kindergartens. It was an important settlement, because it showed that we have some common objectives in kindergarten policy: full childcare coverage during 2005, a maximum price of DKK 1500 in 2002 for one, as we call it, standard offers and equal treatment between private and public kindergartens. It is important that the Committee, in its budgetary position, also unanimously states that the objectives and instruments of the ECHR are firmly established. The agreement has been important. We've got an increase in the appropriations for the kindergartens that are missing the same amount. We've got an increase in the rate of expansion, we've got a maximum of one in place. What was said by some was almost an impossibility has been made possible, and we have increased support for private kindergartens. Nevertheless, developments in the kindergarten sector have not come as far as we had hoped. The expansion both in 2003 and 2004 had an ambition of 12 000 places, and then we were to build the rest in 2005 and reach full coverage. It has been much slower, and we are far behind the form. When a skater is far behind the form and goes 37-round instead of 36-round, he really has two choices: either he can stick to the same form and get the lap time down, or he can keep the lap time constant and change the form. The government parties and the Advance Party do none of the parts. They actually reduce the level of ambition, and it's a strange strategy when you've got a big lag. It should be believed that when fewer kindergartens were built in 2003 and 2004 than planned, the objective and budgeting should be to increase the number of kindergartens, to try to recover some of the lost. The Ministry also goes far into the budget by saying that maximum price 2 should not be introduced from 1 August 2005, as planned. The kindergarten agreement clearly states that this should be decided at last during the spring of 2005, when evaluation of the rate of expansion and maximum price 1 is available. I assume that the department will follow this up, of course, and that the Storting will take that decision during the spring. It is argued that an introduction of max. 2 will delay the development of kindergartens. I think it's the opposite. The Ministry itself writes that during 2005 73 pst. of the municipalities have full childcare coverage at max.1. In these municipalities, it will not be built a single nursery until maximum price 2 is phased in, because it is only when we have an additional need revealed, which also gives reason to build more kindergartens. That is why we see from the Labour Party that a delay in maximum price 2 will actually contribute to a delay in the development, instead of the opposite. Equal treatment is an important element of the childcare arrangement. The Ministry has chosen a model based on actual costs, and we have no objections to the model chosen by the Government. Nevertheless, we question whether equal treatment is really going to be the result. We know that costs may have evolved differently in each nursery from the time the cost level was measured to the present day. At the same time, there is an important limitation in the model chosen, namely that it does not allow private kindergartens to enjoy the standard raising and the pension and working conditions that public kindergartens may already have. There are things that it'll be important to come back to if we're going to achieve the goal that all children will have an equivalent place in kindergarten. We have also become aware through the media that the Minister for Children and Family Affairs has sent out a new Children's Home Act at the hearing. There is reason to stress that the Committee unanimously states that it: «considers that changes to laws and regulations which result in deterioration in quality could undermine what is contained in an ordinary offer». In this way, if such a law is adopted, there could also be a breach of the childcare contract. I'm not the one who calls for a breach of the nursery contract every time someone does something that we don't like from the Labour Party – we leave that to others. But I want to say that it is very much on the edge of the intentions of the kindergarten agreement that you are now reducing the nursery rate. We find that to be very regrettable when full coverage is one of the main objectives of the entire agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e713	The government is following up the pediatric conciliation. We are committed to further rapid deployment to ensure even better access, and we are committed to quality in order to ensure better content. The Ministry has carried out a ‘quality initiative 2001-2003’ in kindergartens with good results. Kindergartens have been active and involved in quality development, and knowledge and cooperation in the sector has been strengthened. 2005 will be an exciting quality year. The size of the store will be transferred to the new nursery law in the coming spring. The draft new Kindergarten Act is known to be out of consultation, with a deadline of 10 January. The draft suggests that the law should continue to ensure high quality childcare provision, which the Committee is also concerned with. All the different parts of the law — both on the purpose, content, child participation, clear division of responsibilities between the levels of the sector and the supervision of the municipality as a kindergarten authority — aim to ensure the quality of kindergartens. We want to ensure that all children receive an equivalent offering of good quality regardless of their place of residence. Therefore, we need to have a common understanding of what a kindergarten offer should mean. The Government therefore proposes a significant extension of the content provision and strengthens the quality requirements. I am pleased that the Committee highlights the report ‘Actions to protect children from abuse’ and the further work to follow it up. The proposals are an important part of the Government's commitment to the development of positive family structures and the fight against violence in close relations. The work group’s proposals underline important fundamental points: if the child has been subjected to violence or has been a witness to violence, this shall be given priority in a matter of association or permanent residence for the child. Conspiracy is strong here in the country, and that is basically good. However, the parents’ right of association should not be at the expense of the child’s best interests. Children shall not be forced into association with them for which they are afraid; they shall not be afraid of association. The rights of a father under the Children’s Act shall not endanger the safety of a mother if she needs protective measures such as: blocked address. It's not hard for a father to get out of a child where his mother lives. The report has been at general consultation, with the consultation period now in the summer. The Ministry has summarised the opinions received, and they are broadly in favour of the proposals in the report. Several of the hearing opinions indicate that they are consistently in line with the report and proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act. Several suggest that the child does not have sufficient protection in child distribution matters today and that there is a need for changes to protect children. The Ministry is now working to follow up the report and the consultation opinions. We aim to present an odelstingsproposition with proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act during the next session. In recent times, family policy has been in focus again – I am delighted about that! The fact that the cash support has given more time between children and parents seems to fall some heavily for the breast. Again, a «female back to the kitchen bench» image is called. Today's enlightened women, or men for that matter, are not allowed to live in that kind of old-fashioned rhetoric, nor is it a setback to spend time on their own children. Such arguments reveal, and I regret to say, that the A4 tankway still has too many trailers. What gives cause for concern is quite another, namely that some people produce a scare picture in which parents who take care lose both career and development opportunities. With such an approach, it is likely that the next step will be to reduce both maternity leave and other arrangements for young children’s parents, so that their work relationship will be as short a break as possible. Do we really want such a perspective on child and family policy? My answer is no. On the contrary, the way must be to facilitate the combination of family life and working life, even if it is accepted for a slightly longer period of leave, when it is considered to be right for the individual. The government's family policy is based on increased freedom of choice and flexibility in family policy. An improvement in the efficiency of fathers will be adopted in this budget and further improvements will be made. Self-employed people are entitled to maternity benefits, and in a short time we will send out a consultation note which also concerns this group. A more flexible maternity leave scheme will be presented to Stortinget for spring. The cash support is fixed, and the babysitting has never been higher. However, this freedom of choice is at stake – it is clear from the alternative Workers' Party and SV has presented. In parentheses, I also have to say that when these parties remove an important welfare reform, it is consistent with bets in the same area – in fact, a clear down-priority of the sector from these parties if we look at the budget. Finally, the major reform of child protection that is now underway is important – it is incredibly important for our vulnerable children. I will commend the whole child protection sector on the State side for the commitment and the great initiatives that are underpinned by this major reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e743	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e746	I understood it this way at the input of the Council of State that we were afraid that the cash support forced the women back to home, in a way was a little old-fashioned, and that it was the government's cash support policy that looked ahead and was modern. In our modern society, we've got a lot of new residents, and a new study shows that there are actually most immigrants who use cash support. I wonder whether the Council of State is satisfied with that, with regard to the integration policy that we are so much talking about, and not least the Norwegian language. The working party is concerned that the cash support seems to affect the behaviour of mothers only in relation to working life, and not the behaviour of fathers. What does the Council of State have to say to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e753	This government does not want what the left-hand parties want, namely that everyone should enter an A4 solution that the Workers' Party and SV should decide. We are committed to freedom of choice, and as far as the question of immigrants is concerned, freedom of choice should be the same whether you are Norwegian or you have come to this country in another way. I want to read just a few words that a young woman writes in Stavanger Evening magazine Saturday, December 11: ‘What’s wrong with women choosing to take care of their children for a year or two? Yeah, because that's choice, not coercion. They can't. Does Giske&Co think that women themselves are unable to choose? Are we so stupid and oppressed that we are pressured to be home? By whom then, then?' And on the other hand, "What are they afraid of? Well, some women have to choose different ways than they do/have done. The women's movement and the left-hand side of the policy have always claimed that the best thing for women is to get the most out of work and stay there. For the sake of equality. To make it sound nice, they have also said that it is for the sake of the children." That's very well said!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e771	The council answered me in a questioning time here in this room: ‘Neither I nor the UDI have registered that care failure has been reported in relation to these children’ – i.e. minor asylum seekers. And on the other hand, ‘I am very concerned and have taken this up with the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. We have to try together to figure out where these children are. I do not accept that children live under unworthy conditions in the reception of asylum. I don't, but I don't know who they are." I have a letter here, and I referred instead to a newspaper article. In the letter, the Child Protection Service answers that it has received several other concerns that raise doubts about the ability of the recipient to provide sufficient assistance and/or care to the children for whom they are actually responsible. Nevertheless, the Child Protection Service finds it very difficult to be the body to investigate and compensate for any lack of professionalism, staffing, in state institutions with a national function. What does the Council of State think of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e786	As for the first statement, there was a quote from a previous post from me here in this room, and it was in relation to a report that Redd Barna has produced on behalf of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. It is quite right that this report stated that there were a number of alarming conditions and concerns at some asylum recipients where Redd Barna had been in and examined the matter, and I was very concerned to know where these children are, whether that was right. We have not actually received this proof. Having said that, all the concerns that come with child protection must be followed up, and if the representative May Hansen has some examples from a newspaper or where it might be, that child protection has not followed up, I would very much like to know, then we must also make sure that we take action in relation to this through the state child protection or county. Otherwise, I just need to clarify a manifest misunderstanding in May Hansen's first post: the Children's Protection Act applies to everyone – in any case – in this country, whether they are in reception or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e795	The size cut a considerable amount of work when we take the decision called the nursery agreement. At least there is a broad consensus that we should have full childcare coverage, and we should introduce the maximum price step 2 on 1 August 2005. But if we are to get to the goal, as has been said from this pulpit earlier, we need 14,000 new seats. The government started its budgetary work early in the summer, the budget was presented to us early in October, and already in the proposition it was announced that we would not get into the goal. My point is that almost a year before we have step 2, we're capitulating. Is the Council of State considering other measures to increase the rate of expansion?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e801	There have not been so many kindergartens built in as short a time as in the last three years. The increase in capacity in the kindergarten sector, just to take last year, actually represented 12,000 new places. 7 400 new children came to kindergarten. In addition, the capacity increase by going from part-time to full-time, was 5000 new places, so that we arrived at the capacity increase last year. Targets are set in the nursery sector. And I want to show that we have no less than between 20 and 30 different information measures. I can't go through everybody. Then I might have to have a few more minutes, and I probably won't. But we've done an incredible amount to build kindergartens. Perhaps the most important incentive we have is for the state to fully finance all new kindergartens. But it's not this council that builds up the kindergartens, it does the municipalities and the private.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e806	I record in the media that it has pleased the council that those who are in favour of cash support also use the arrangements that exist for families with children. But it may not be as enjoyable that the cash support for most of us has a zero impact on the time you have with children. There is simply one criterion for receiving cash support, and it is that you keep the child away from kindergarten after the child is one year old. The first studies show that the cash support in very many of the cases had no impact in the sense that children and parents were more together. So we spent $3 billion without getting one minute more in the relationship between parents and children. Now the latest surveys show that we may have achieved something, by women leaving the workplace to be with the children. My question is, do we have nothing against giving children's families money, and the families of children have nothing against getting money, but would it not be better to spend that money on expanding maternity leave, so that you had a real choice to be at home, and that both mother and father could use that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e813	After all, we all want to extend the maternity leave scheme, but why on a global scale do you have to reduce the amount of cash or remove it for that reason? You only get even more choice if you keep it too. Thus, with regard to the last survey recently reported in the newspapers, this applies to the long-term effects of time spent with children, and only to women. Only women are involved in this study. It is the Ministry of Children and Family who have ordered and paid for the report, and the next phase will be to examine the time-use now of fathers in terms of the long-term impact of the use of cash support. And it's going to be exciting, because we know that there are more and more fathers – including Geske – who also use the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e820	The Christian People's Party has been talking about extended maternity leave throughout this majority period. We have not received a single day of extended maternity leave. There's money to expand the maternity leave, we heard that in a debate earlier here today. It costs about 200-250 million. kr per. weeks with extended maternity leave. That means that the cash support could be given many, many weeks, yes several months of maternity leave, a little depending on the level of income you calculate for it. So it's a priority question whether you spend the money on cash support or on maternity leave. And maternity leave could then give a real choice for everyone. It is not that family caregivers around Norway can stop working for 4000 kroner a month. It's nice to get $4,000 a month, if you're home anyway, but you can't stop working. And if you stop, it's the lowest income that often does, and unfortunately, it's often women. It is thus a contribution to less equality in employment, less home equality and less freedom of choice. Because you don't really have the opportunity to be home. You'd have that with maternity leave. And this the council can't talk away. I want a more logical explanation of how this relates.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e827	I get to say it simply, then: we do not want to liquidate the cash support. We want to keep the cash support. We want this choice. The system is in place for parents to have more time with their children, so that there would be more justice in the transfer arrangements for families with children, and so that there would be freedom of choice. And I stand for that. We're not even going to propose to wind this up. The maternity leave scheme shall also be extended. I am proud to be the State Council of the Bondevik II government, which has made the first family message ever, and which in this message proposed a grip on the Dad quota. We will make an amendment in 2005, which the Committee is well aware of. Then we're also going to expand so that all fathers come under the scheme. There are 11,000 fathers who are not yet in the scheme. And then we're going to expand the paper commission. But we also follow what is stated in the Sem declaration of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e834	So the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e837	The budget adopted today is a very good one, which continues the great effort of the Co-operation Government in the area of children's and family life. Continued high pressure on the development of kindergartens and new steps towards equal treatment of private and municipal kindergartens constitute the most important part of this budget. In addition, better father rights are provided in the birth grant scheme, and I refer to Ot.prp. No 7 for 2004-2005, adopted unanimously at Odelstinget earlier today. Here, fathers are guaranteed maternity leave on their own merits. Strong increase in adoption support, increased efforts to combat poverty among children and young people, further efforts to tackle co-operation and prevention family measures are a high priority in this budget. The government's proposal to strengthen the kindergarten sector by SEK 1.4 billion shows that children are given priority. The aim is to provide 9 000 more children with a childcare facility in 2005. At the same time, the cash support is continued. This is also how we take care of the freedom of choice of young children's parents and improve the situation of families. It's worth stressing that beyond 73 pst. children between the age of 1 and 3 years in this country participate in the cash support scheme. Cash support was paid out to 83 100 children in the first half of this year. 2/3 of the children for whom cash support is provided are mainly provided by one of the parents, and almost 1/3 of the parents say that it is the cash support that has made this choice possible. The right notes with this that cash support is still a popular scheme. Unfortunately, this will not take the socialist parties inward. If the Workers' Party had received what they wanted in their alternative budget, the cash support had been phased out from 1 March 2005. Their alternative budget is 1 March 2005. SV proposes in its alternative budget for the next year to wind up the cash support from 1 January. A family that has made up its economy in relation to the cash support and may have taken leave from work for a longer period, would overnight be deducted from NOK 3,657 in the month. This we don't think is a good idea. Cash support is an important family policy reform because it gives the families of young children, regardless of their background, freedom of choice. Politicians shall not be required to force families of children into A4 solutions, but to give them the opportunity to arrange everyday life in the best way for the family. For us, therefore, cash support is an important step towards a society where one puts children and parents in the centre, where parents make choices, and where they can tailor from their everyday life and life situation the measures that best suit them. On the left, the claim that the cash support brings women back to the kitchen bench is a gross underestimation of the several thousand women out there who make a choice, who give priority to their own children and will give them care themselves. Violence against children and women is a growing and serious problem both internationally and here in the country. Violence, abuse and assault are an extreme expression of the oppression of children and women. The fact that children and women are subjected to violence in their everyday lives severely limits their ability to participate actively in society. In addition, this is an infringement of their fundamental freedoms and fundamental human rights. The high proportion of women with a minority background seeking refuge in crisis centres must also be taken seriously. These women often have a lack of networks outside the family and weak links with the labour market, and the problems therefore become more complex for them. In this context, it is important both for help staff with skills and knowledge of other cultures, and for action to respond better to the needs of these women to help them become self-employed and to get work. Greater emphasis must also be placed on man’s own responsibility for the exercise of violence. It is unacceptable that the perpetrator of violence should remain in his own home, while partners and children must seek refuge in the crisis centres. I am therefore very pleased that the Government's budget proposal to step up efforts to prevent and help children, young people and women who experience family violence is fully endorsed here today. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at the budgetary agreement we have reached with the Progress Party in the Committee. We have thus been given a good and responsible budget, which continues to strengthen the efforts of the Cooperative Government in the area of children and family and modernisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e865	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e868	I would like to say a few words about equality. Unfortunately, the gender equality work goes too far, and I think the government has to work even more actively to get us on the road. The Labour Party will stress the importance of achieving real equality between women and men. It is important that further efforts are made to ensure a fair distribution of opportunities and commitments between the sexes and that the gender perspective is integrated into all public activities. I would like to stress that Norway has a long way to go in the field of equality. We see discrimination between women and men, not least in terms of equal pay for equal work. Women are not represented in executive positions in the same way as men. Public intervention must contribute to active gender equality in society. At the same time, legislation must prevent discrimination and discrimination. A good example is the rules on gender representation in the boards of public limited-liability companies. The government has delayed the introduction of such rules by waiting and seeing whether the companies themselves meet the gender representation target in the boards, 40 pst. women and 60 pst. men. This does not make progress in the work. The Labour Party is opposed to bringing together the Equality Centre, the Equality Ombudsman and the Centres against ethnic discrimination. It is important that equality work does not come into the shadow. Unfortunately, we have a party that will not take the issue of equality seriously. It is, of course, the Progress Party, which believes the tradition is in favour of significant reductions in gender equality. It is very optimistic to think that something will take care of itself – if it was really the goal. Finally, I must stress that it is also important to combat prejudice and discrimination based on orientation and sexual identity. It is therefore important that the public actively contribute financial support to projects and organisations with this objective. Such an organisation is the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil Liberation, such as the pursues an anti-discrimination project which should be continued. There is information and information for society to look at gays and lesbians as everyone else. Here I believe that the Christian People's Party has something to learn, and if you believe today's VG, it may also apply to the Advancement Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e888	It is not true, as the Danish Council of State Davay says, that the Child Protection Act applies to minor asylum seekers in line with Norwegian children. It is true that if Norwegian children are without parents and caregivers, it is child protection that takes responsibility for them, examines their situation and finds an offer tailored to their needs. In the case of minor asylum seekers, the UDI is responsible. Child protection is neither inside nor considering the reception in which they live, nor is it responsible for any kind of care. They receive a message when the children arrive in the country, but only if child protection receives a message of concern from the reception or guardian, that they go in and investigate the situation of these children. UDI has been visiting Vårli in Moss, which is a reception for minor asylum seekers. The council answered my question here in the hall that neither UDI nor she had heard that there were any concerns about child protection. UDI, as mentioned, has been visiting the Spring Day, and Moss’s newspaper — the Council of State, of course, will receive a copy of the article — says that action has been taken to improve the situation of children. That's what it says. ‘If children need more help than this, it’s worse. In the PP service, they have to wait six months for help, in child protection and child and youth psychiatry they have to wait three months». The receipt goes on to say that you have ‘requested the protection of the child for assistance to three of the children at reception. But child protection did not have the capacity to help them. Fortunately, we managed to solve the problems on our own that time. Now we have another child with serious problems, but he must also wait for three months. This time we are afraid that the situation will get much worse before he can get help» The installation is here. I also referred to a child protection response after another message, where they say they have received many enquiries and messages from the reception office and from auxiliary workers, but you do not have the capacity to go in, you do not have the economy to go in. It is clear that there are no clear guidelines here, and this is the responsibility of the Council of State. UDI has heard this. This is referred to in the newspapers. Both the Councils of State and the UDI know about this. This is not in line with what the Council of State answered me in the question-time question. These kids have it really bad. Many of them are unexploded bombs, as was said at an open seminar in Moss 14 days ago. What does the Council of State do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e908	First, I would like to correct that I was wrong to say that the Workers' Party in the Financial Institution would remove the cash support from 1 March and not from 1 June, as stated in the Committee's position. The representative could now tell me from the bench whether it was in the Workers' Party's alternative budget that it was 1 March. However, the fact that the Workers' Party will remove the cash support from 1 June does not improve the situation of the families with children who have opted for cash support. They get five months to spend on their finances and provide their children with another care. Worse still, SV's proposal. They only have 14 days on them. The typical cash support mother is, as we were in the past, one who works part-time, has evening and night work or weekend work. Very many jobs in low-wage workers in the health sector. Removing the cash support will make the family economy worse. I stand by the fact that this is fundamentally unsocial. 3 657 kroner net is a lot of money for a family of young children. In my reply with the representative Fallet, I did not get a response to what she wanted to offer these families instead. I have to say that I just don't understand what the problem is that parents choose care solutions other than kindergarten, or that they step down jobs and careers for a period to take care of the children and perhaps choose to take care of themselves unless for a while. It must, in the view of the Right, be the choice of the parents. The working party and SV clearly believe that they know what is best for each family. They're all going into the same A4 form. And every time the Right promotes suggestions to strengthen people's ability to determine their own lives, it's just no and no from SV. The representative May Hansen and SV have an extreme confidence in their own ability to control people's lives. The proposal to regulate the time for mother and father to be at home with children does not lead to an increase in equality. The representative Hansen says she has not proposed a third. I have been in debate with the representative Hansen in P4 and with the representative Heikki Holmås in the ‘Policy Quarter’ about this, and then they insisted that this was what was to be done. Clearly it has been that it has created a touch among other representatives of the SV group. But I now notice that the representative Hansen and SV are on the defensive and only want an investigation. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for a good and committed debate. We also need to adopt a good budget. It is reassuring to have such a great commitment to child and family policy. I think that's a good promise. It is also reassuring that there is a solid majority in government policy, both in terms of child and family policy, and in terms of modernising and getting a well-functioning public sector that both citizens and businesses will benefit from.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e921	I just need to clarify one thing. We point out that if 9 000 new children are to have children's playgrounds, well over 9 000 places have to be built. This will result from the fact that there are still going to be shifts from part-time to full-time places. The offensive instruments agreed by Stortinget to increase the number of kindergartens are well established. The investment grant is fixed. The state's funding of all new sites is determined. The shrewd spot is there, all the tools are as I said. There may be other things, for example: in the construction industry, or municipal plans, which means that kindergarten development needs to take a little longer. But all the positive incentives that Stortinget put in place are solid. I think this will facilitate an offensive expansion of space. But we can't magic.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e928	I want to make some comments to the representative May Hansen and say a little bit about equality, if the time goes by. Now, the newspapers may not be good enough witnesses of truth in all matters, but the reality is that we have clear guidelines in child protection today. Children shall be treated equally. I expect that I will receive the documentation that the representative has, so that it is possible to investigate and put in place measures. It's sad that as a child protection representative, you don't know what's going on in child protection. In fact, for those children who remain alone, in the case of asylum-seekers and others, there is a high level of appointment. This is done for asylum-seekers, and it is also done for Norwegian children when they become orphans. Child protection does not automatically take care of any child; it is assessed on a case-by-case basis. Here, too, we have equality with regard to asylum-seekers and Norwegian children. So a little bit about equality. The accusation of delaying the government, for example. the introduction of 40 pst. women in the control rooms, are totally unimaginable. After all, it is this government that has put forward proposals on this. There is no other government that has ever dared to make such a progressive proposal, and then you talk about this government delaying a matter that we have put forward and received the approval of the Storting. It's amazing. So I just want to point out -- this is just taken from my head at full speed -- some equality measures that we're working on: Simplification of the maternity allowance scheme. It'll also be important for equality. The self-employed person received a maternity allowance last year. We're working on a short-term consultation note. We have an annex to the State budget to integrate gender equality into all parts of the public sector. We have an equal pay project that ends next year – very successful. We have a new action plan to get more men in kindergartens. We've given the paper issue on a self-benefit basis, which the Storting has joined in 2005. We have changes to the Gender Equality Act on the steps — important changes that are coming. And the last: The new retirement message that came last Friday improves the position of women in relation to the Commission's proposal. This is just some of what we're going to do in equality. It is not exhaustive – not at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e968	The representative, Sjøli, is very concerned about these families of children who would lose the cash support from 1 June if the Workers' Party got its way. In fact, I think it's not such a short conversion time, really, because my counter-question is: how long does all those who lose their jobs get reduced daily pay, unemployment pay? Right should worry about the local economy, because the welfare is created in the municipalities. It doesn't seem to involve so much, despite the fact that families of children get increased expenses for the SFO, they get increased expenses for cultural schools, which it's so good for the Right to talk hot about, they get reduced unemployment benefits, commuters lose their deduction, and we're talking about a mobile labour market. This is also part of the total economy of families with children that should worry Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e973	May Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e976	The representative, Sjøli, is concerned with freedom of choice and that every time you talk about the right choice, SV gets freezes. Yes, I get some freezes of the Right Choice, that's quite clear. But as long as we don't have full babysitting, we have no freedom of choice. As long as there are women who are low-paid and in part-time positions, we don't have full freedom of choice, because families actually have to choose that it's mother who's at home – because of economics. The cash support does not give the freedom to choose for families with children. Själi is concerned about removing the cash support overnight, but the government parties did the exact same thing – they took away the baby supplement overnight, from one day to the other, and gave it to those who had cash support, for those who were supposed to have babysitting would not have baby supplements. Then you haven't adjusted the child's health either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e981	The committee leader asked what was the Workers' Party's alternative to the cash support. She had not received a proper answer to that. First of all, we want a faster kindergarten expansion. It had given a greater freedom of choice for all the parents who send letters to their municipality, ask for a nursery place and get a refusal. There's not much to choice when you're standing there without babysitting and have to find other care solutions. We want to keep the baby supplement in the child's back, as opposed to the government parties, which – as the previous speaker said – cut the baby supplement overnight. It was supposed to hit the poorest small children's families in a way that Sjeli seemed very busy in his previous post. We want a maximum price in kindergarten. We've achieved that. Now we also want to get it phased in fast. That might mean $1,000 cheaper babysitting space a month. It means a lot to the economy of small children's families, and it gives greater freedom of choice in relation to the use of kindergartens. We want a tax bill that gives lower taxes for those who earn the least, and higher taxes for those who earn the most. The representative, Sjéli, is free to copy our proposal and put the Right Policy in our direction, if she is concerned that people have too much advice. Then we want extended maternity leave. Councillor Davøy has talked very much about the fact that the Christian People's Party is the source of the maternity leave and the paper commission. Well, once we've had bourgeois governments in this country, the maternity leave has not been extended by one day. From 1981 to 1986 it was constant for five years. From 1989 to 1990, under a civil government, it was not extended by one day. From 1997 to 2000, during the Bondevik administration, it was not extended by 15 minutes. And from 2001 to 2005, we haven't had one minute more maternity leave. All increases from 18 weeks to one year have occurred under labor party governments. So I think you have to go back to the history book if you want to figure out where this comes from. And it's going to be like this again. It is only a government shift in 2005 that can give parents greater freedom of choice to be at home. It must be quite obvious, says a teacher who earns about 300,000 kroner a year, 25 000 kroner a month: Is it possible to cancel that job and be at home for 4000 kroner if you have housing costs, if you have fixed costs on a car, and what do you now have? It is not that that freedom of choice is real to all, most of them. It is possible that there are some in the government circles who can just cut out the job and be at home for it. But for the most, most, and ordinary families of children, that's not the reality. Instead, spend the money to extend the maternity leave! We can get four, five months or six hours day, and 80 pst. time account for two years. It would give a great opportunity for parents to choose to be more with their children. And we could get more equality, because we could give part of it to Dad. Then we had learned father to take care of the children to an even greater extent, and we had given mother the opportunity to have a career in professional life equal to that of father. There would be equality in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e996	In fact, the Bondevik I government proposed improvements to the paper commission in 2000. And isn't it the Bondevik II government that today gets a majority in the Storting to give fathers birth money on self-earnings within the Dad quota? The answer is ‘yes’ — both. Then I would like to remind you that according to a recent study on what parents think about the cash support, 70 pst. by parents – we say in their childbearing age – have the cash support as a choice. They will choose for themselves. So I allow myself to read – I did not read the whole article from this amazing mother who wrote in Stavanger Evening Magazine on Saturday. So the rest of the post is the following – for those who are concerned about their careers: «My career has not been destroyed by the fact that I spent time with the children when they were young. Neither have they destroyed my children. They talked in the whole sentence when they were 16 months old and read when they were 4. They also became harmonious, safe and social.» Finally, she says the following: "We don't need mulla Giske to choose for ourselves and our children what's best for us. We ourselves are able to do that." I think it says a lot. And I agree that you can choose for yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1015	The representative, Giske, wishes to speak for the third time. He then gets the word of a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1018	It's time for it to be against elections, so we can get a government change. If we have an equality minister in Norway who seriously believes that women choose to be out of work for many years, while men continue to be there, do not have a bearing on equality and career opportunities in business, then we actually need a new Minister for Gender Equality. It is quite obvious that the bias that the Council of State says she is concerned about — by the power of the business community, the power of Norway, where 90 pst. Professors at universities in Norway are men, and that we are not allowed to do anything about it — get worse when women are out of work for years, while men continue to be there. You don't have to score high on these TIMSS and PISA studies in order to understand it. It's obvious to everyone. What you're adding up to is aggravating it. An extended maternity leave where father can get a large part of it would improve home equality, improve employment equality and increase freedom of choice. You don't have to be a mule or a priest to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1023	Otherwise, the president wonders whether mullas and priests understand so much more than others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1027	My point is: it is not the cash support itself that destroys equality in this country. Cash support lasts for a maximum of two years, so most of us work for 40 years in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1032	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1136]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1047	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1156]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1062	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1156]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1079	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1156]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1094	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1156]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1109	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1157]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1124	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1157]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1139	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1157]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1154	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1157]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1169	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1157]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1185	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1157]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1200	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1158]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1215	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1158]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1230	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1158]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1245	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1158]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1260	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1158]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1275	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1159]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1290	I can comfort the staging president that I should be very short – don't keep any long posts. The debate is a sign in Odelstinget, and SV's original proposal was drawn there. It was found that a number of parties wanted to deal with this at their respective national meetings. The centre batch has been invited to make this submission for a submission, and this has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1297	The representative, Eli Sollied Överaas, has made the proposal to which she referred about a transmission proposal. Several have not asked for the word. [[Fotation, see page 1160]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1314	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1160]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1322	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e1329	During the debate, 29 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 8–15 and 26–29, by Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals Nos. 2–4 and 18–23, by Trond Giske, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on proposal No. 5, by Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 6, 7 and 24, by Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 16, by Eli Sollied Överaas on behalf of the Central Party, proposal No. 17, by Trond Giske, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 25, from Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Progress Party We're going to vote for the minority proposals first, and we're going to start with the smallest fraction. Proposal No. 16, from the Centre Party, will have an impact on the framework of the next year's budget and will therefore depend on the framework. Consequently, no voting can be taken up and must be considered as a lapse. The next thing that's going to happen is the proposals from the Socialist Left Party. Among these, there are four proposals that are framework-dependent – the proposals No. 9, 13, 14, and 15. Therefore, these proposals cannot be addressed to voting and are considered to be obsolete. It is voted on by the other Socialist Left. That is the proposal No. 1, 8, 10–12 and 26–29.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e3573	Proposal No. 25, from the Advance Party, is dependent on the framework and cannot be taken up for voting. It is therefore to be considered to be lost. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6, 7 and 24, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e3605	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e3625	Among the proposals from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are the proposals No. 19, 20 and 22 frame dependants and will therefore not be weighed over. So they're gone. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 3, 4, 18, 21 and 23, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e3675	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 17, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e3693	Then we have finished voting on the minority proposals, and we are going to take the vote's motion for a resolution. So let's start with area one.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e5850	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e5863	Let's move on to Box 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e7260	Under this framework area of the proposal for a decision of the opinion, there is a correction presented in the debate by the chairman of the Committee. Under point 1 of V, the rate shall be NOK 33 584, not NOK 34 820, as stated in the adjustment. The President shall assume that the voting under this framework area is equal to voting under the Framework Area 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e7275	Then the border area 3 remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9014	The President expects that the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Centre will now support Roman Num IX in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9031	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are behind the vote, so the President expects the Workers' Party and the SV to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9214	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left from the Odelstinget meeting on 18 November 2004: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting within two years with an evaluation of the consequences of the 60 per cent regional breakdown introduced, and whether this has worked according to the Government’s intention.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9232	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 18 November 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget within two years with a visualisation of media developments at local level within the four media markets newspaper, television, radio and electronic media.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9250	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 18 November 2004: ‘The Government requests the promotion of its own case on the limitation of ownership of broadcasting at regional and national level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9268	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 18 November 2004: ‘The size asks the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate form to make visible the way in which the 10 pst. cross-ownership limit has functioned according to the Storting intention.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9286	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 18 November 2004: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote its own cross-ownership case of 10 p.m. shall also include television and electronic media.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9304	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 18 November 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Storting with a review of the impact of the introduction of step regulation at national level of multimedia concentration.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9322	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 18 November 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote its own case on the development of electronic media at all levels and to draw up proposals for ownership regulation also in relation to the deployment of digital networks.’ [[local, regional, national]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9341	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 18 November 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward its own case as to how the King of the Council of State may be a Board of Appeal in matters of principle of major social importance, without conflict with the role of the media as independent of the authorities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9359	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 18 November 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the best way of regulating vertical integration in order to ensure a diversity of actors’ access to the media market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9377	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Sollied Överaas on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 18 November 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a separate case with proposals for the final organisation of the new language institution as soon as the functional period of the created interim board has ended.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9395	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Sollied Överaas on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 18 November 2004: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals on the legal capacity of the new language institution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9413	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 18 November 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with legislative proposals that ensure and achieve important language policy objectives.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9940	A vote shall be taken on the proposal of Mr Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 18 November 2004: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and assess changes in the law that ensure legal equality between persons in marriage and partnerships, including the assessment of a common marriage law. The Government is asked to return to Stortinget with this as its own matter by 15 May 2005.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9958	This is a proposal by Eli Sollied Överaas, on behalf of the Central Party, submitted from Odelstinget on 18 November 2004. Eli Sollied Överaas has asked that this proposal be converted into a transmission proposal. Therefore, the introductory part is replaced by ‘Recommendation...’ and the proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine the issue of gender-neutral marriage law, including the relationship with existing legislation, and come back to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-2.ana.ud464e9972	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, submitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 10 December 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that spy software, known as ‘ad-ware’/‘spy-ware’, should not be used to monitor other people’s ICT equipment without the user’s explicit permission.’
