ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e68	The representative, Modulf Aukan, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Telemark County, Inger Stokstad, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e89	For business and Norwegian jobs, a good capital market is important. Many of the companies have their primary source of new equity from the stock exchange and depend on the functioning of the market. With a high proportion of foreign investors at Oslo Børs, it is also important that the Norwegian securities market be seen as functioning internationally as well. The implementation of the Market Abuse Directive is one of several measures undertaken by the Co-operation Government to modernise Norwegian securities market legislation. Odelstingen has recently taken decisions on Ot.prp. No 89 for 2003-2004 on the introduction of international accounting standards for listed companies in Norway. In Ot.prp. No 12 for 2004-2005, which we are dealing with today, a number of clarifications and adjustments are made to the legislation, including: in the Securities Trading Act, in order to harmonise it with the recently adopted EU Directive 2003/6/EC on market abuse and its complementary acts. The proposal includes linguistic changes to the prohibition on insider dealing. Requirements are introduced for the keeping of inside lists, i.e. lists of advisers and others giving access to inside information. There will also be an obligation to maintain lists of internal employees who have such information and there will be stricter rules on the disclosure of inside information. These changes improve the possibility of both preventing and investigating insider dealing. Market manipulation, like insider dealing, has consequences for owners of shares where prices are manipulated. In the circumstances, transactions which appear to be legitimate and accepted on the market may constitute market manipulation or attempted. Therefore, a number of rules are introduced to this effect, many of which are relatively complex and are to be laid down in the form of the regulation. Investment recommendations, e.g. in the form of share analyses, is also relevant in relation to market manipulation. Misuse of investment recommendations can lead to misprices and losses for too many shareholders. The implementation of the Market Abuse Directive involves some new rules, including: to prevent conflicts of interest, for example: between those drawing up the analyses and their clients or between different clients of the same investment firm. The proposal also contains new rules on reporting obligations to the credit supervision in the case of transactions suspected of insider dealing or market manipulation. This applies to those who conduct or facilitate transactions in financial instruments on a commercial basis. The reporting obligation has similar features to those for the purpose of money laundering. Reporting obligations will clarify the roles of the securities market and benefit those involved. Agents usually have a confidential relationship with their customers. The reporting obligation does not allow clients to claim confidentiality if criminal acts such as insider dealing or market manipulation are planned or committed. Insider dealing and market manipulation may not only be prohibited, there must also be a certain risk of being taken. Regulatory enforcement is at the heart of the EU Directive. The government will therefore provide credit supervision with effective means of securing evidence. Today’s decision provides for supervision according to the model of the Competition Act § 25. This includes, inter alia: that credit supervision may, for reasonable reasons, require access to premises, properties and other warehousing sites, including housing, for the purpose of ensuring evidence, in the event of a breach of the prohibition of insider dealing or market manipulation. Surveillance may include items, copies of documents, PCs and similar items, and seal premises. This type of evidence assurance may be a significant intervention against those who are exposed to it and must therefore be approved by the tribunal. If there is no time to obtain a court order, the Credit Authority may require the police to suspend an area until the decision of the court is given. In addition, access is given to the collection of history of telephone use. Thus, in the event of market events giving rise to such suspicions, the Credit Authority has good means of enforcing the legislation and taking action at short notice. An overall committee supports the Government’s proposal to implement the Market Abuse Directive. The political will to contribute to a reliable investment climate for investors at Oslo Stock Exchange is therefore very clear. Ot. pp. No 12 also contains some amendments to the statutory act, both to clarify the auditor’s access to consultancy services and to implement new EEA rules on the use of the concept of ‘just image’ in the audit report. The Board of Auditors, by letter to the Committee, expressed a wish to clarify the relationship between the terms ‘precision’ and ‘reservation’ in the audit report and the relationship between the audit report of the parent company and the group. An overall committee endorses comments and proposals that provide the clarification of the statutory act § 5-6, fifth and seventh paragraphs as requested by the Board of Auditors. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e115	I agree with the statements made by the rapporteur, but would like to raise the Advance Party and the discrepancy of the Kiss Party on §5-6, fourth paragraph, a new No. 1 of the statutory act.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e120	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 267]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e137	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Beate Heieren Hundhammer will have the floor instead of the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e144	The right was part of the majority of the committee as in the Innst. S. No 82 for 2003-2004 joined the main principles underlying the proposition we have for treatment today. However, we are aware that regional health companies still have problems dealing with contracts with private subcontractors within the time limits that apply, and are therefore concerned that the amendment of the law is implemented in a tidy manner with deadlines that both parties have to deal with. The right considers that a new agreement should be concluded by 1 May 2005, as provided for in the proposal, but that amendments to the law should only enter into force on 1 September 2005, so that private operators who may not be agreed will have time to convert. The proposal foresees that the agreements between the regional health establishments and the private establishments, as they are now, will regulate the type of services to be provided from the establishment. We agree to this, but at the same time underline that the agreements must be designed to meet the overall needs of patients. We are concerned about distortions of competition by the fact that the agreements with private individuals are too narrow and limited to a different number of studies, while own activities have full control over their own production. Agreements shall be used as an economic management tool and not as a tool for monitoring own activities. This must also be reflected in the design of agreements. It is therefore important that the agreements are not narrow and short-lived but, as a general rule, have a minimum duration of two years. In our view, it must be a prerequisite for agreements to be concluded between the private enterprises and the RHFs, rather than the individual health business. In addition, we believe that in the same way as for private hospitals and specialists, there has to be an agreement with a regional health company that is crucial for reimbursement from the Rikstroygdverket. The proposition uses the term ‘in the patient’s own region of residence’, which, in the view of the Right, does not comply with the principles that now underpin the patient’s freedom of choice and reimbursement to private health providers in the specialist healthcare service. The right is concerned that the competitive situation between public and private undertakings is maintained. If the private share of the business is weakened, we are concerned that the unit costs of the public enterprises will increase. It is therefore important not to base the level of activity for 2003 but to maintain the level of activity for 2004 at about the same level in 2005. We are aware that preliminary activity figures for 2004 are uncertain and do not provide a basis for the Ministry to set a minimum amount for each regional enterprise. Quality assurance figures will not be available until July 2005. Against this background, we know that the governance documents of the regional health enterprises that are sent out before the new year assume that regional health enterprises will take account of growth in 2004 when assessing the scope of services to be offered. Finally, I would like to point out that there has been an error in the setting on page 4 of the second paragraph. It says: ‘The majority will also stress that, in the same way as for private hospitals and specialists, there has to be an agreement with one RHF that is essential for reimbursement from the RHF.’ The last word here is going to be RTV, not RHF.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e175	Then the bug is fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e178	This matter is very clear on the part of the Ministry through proposals to amend Section 5-5 on social security benefits to cover expenditure on private laboratory and x-ray services. It is made clear that aid is to be granted to cover the costs of samples, studies and treatment only when agreement is reached between the private laboratories and x-ray institutes. This is a principleal attitude The Labour Party agrees and has agreed for a long time. This is also a follow-up to what we said in Innst. S. No 82 for 2003-2004 in the context of the treatment of St.meld. No 5 for 2003-2004. It is therefore established that regional health establishments can offer these services through their own health establishments, or they can enter into agreements with private laboratories and x-ray institutes. It is through this form of regulation that patients are guaranteed the right to benefits from social security and thus acceptable peculiarities. I believe, like the ministry, that regulating this use through agreements gives health care companies the good opportunity to manage the overall laboratory and x-ray service. It is important that referral health professionals do not require tests, studies or treatment in private without a full understanding of the patient. Otherwise, the patient will get costs he probably didn't expect. I believe, like what is expressed in the proposition, that there is good reason to ensure better control of the large volume of demand for laboratory and x-ray services by general practitioners. There, cooperation between specialist health services and general practitioners needs to be significantly improved. With the cleanness and clarification of the proposition, I am somewhat amazed at the majority, that is, the government parties and the Progress Party, its very strong argument in the comments to facilitate private operations, as we also got it from Beate Heieren Hundhammer. It goes beyond what is expressed in terms of the proposition. But I have noticed that this has not been reflected in the legal text by the majority. In this way, we can adopt a law-making change that is orderly and ensures that healthcare businesses have reasonable cost-management both in terms of their own economy and in terms of the costs of public health, while at the same time protecting patients against undue self-payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e193	Initially, I want to join the vast majority of the representative Heieren Hundhammer took up his post. It is important that the private X-ray institutes and laboratories have good agreements. Long-termity and predictability must be ensured in the contract work, not least within certain frameworks, so that one actually knows what one has to deal with. For a period of time, there has been some uncertainty in some undertakings as to whether or not to obtain a contract, and not least whether, when the contract is concluded, a renegotiation is automatic — or how the undertakings wish to act. It is also important that the 2004 figures are taken into account, so that the growth that has been achieved is included. I am a little surprised at the end of the speech by the representative Asmund Kristoffersen. He refers to the comments of the majority and that, in the form of a comment, one goes beyond what is stated in the legal text itself. In this respect, it is interesting to note that the majority opinion of the Committee and that of the Committee will be considered to be the preliminary work of the law and thus to be included in the assessment under consideration. This is not the way to get the impression of the representative, Mr Kristoffersen, that we are free to ignore the comments made by the majority in the vote. They shall be included in the further work. But this is also a matter where you see a big difference on the left-hand side of the committee and the government parties and the Progress Party in how you look at private providers. Private providers in this area are very important, that's what creates competition here. That's what both public and patients have earned, because then you can measure against each other. I'm glad that this law is supposed to be passed as it is. It will create more predictability, so that the private X-ray institutes and laboratories have more to deal with the future, and it becomes a deeper process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e204	So what we are discussing today is a legislative change that is supposed to be the starting point for an agreement between health companies and private laboratories and x-ray institutes before the right to reimbursement is triggered. There's a system for which SV is. We have called for reimbursement not only from social security but also for the whole reimbursement system to be incorporated into health establishments, and for health establishments to dispose of the funds allocated to the provision of services relating to private laboratories and x-ray institutes as a whole. We have discussed the same with private specialists, including psychiatrists and psychologists. There are many examples of the need for such coordination to provide a critical review of the use of resources. Some time back, I myself had a personal experience with it. I was referred to a X-ray and MR examination of the knee for a relatively de minimis complaint in one knee. At a phone call from the person who referred me to a private X-ray institute here, it took three days for me to get to that survey. Of course, I was happy with that until I spoke to a patient who had been diagnosed with cancer, and who would then have a follow-up study, including that with MR. The person told me that she was going to investigate three weeks later at one of the hospitals in Oslo. It was a rather shocking experience for me that I should have had to wait for something that I could have waited for – probably for several months – a study three days later, while a patient who had already operated on a cancer diagnosis would have to wait at a public hospital for over three weeks to get the same study. You could say, as the representative Heieren Hundhammer said, that in a competitive situation, the private sector has won by developing a more efficient system. But it's not that simple. It's not like the patient is standing back winning if those who were to have the highest priority, as in the example I mention here, end up having to wait the longest. Of course, it should be that they coordinated the patients referred to by the private X-ray institute and by the public, so as to give priority to those in the health queue who had the greatest need. Of course it should have been I who had waited, and not she. I notice that Heieren Hundhammer says in his post: ‘Rights are concerned that the competitive situation between public and private undertakings must be maintained.’ If there's something that's surprised us in SV, it's that you stick to that kind of goals. What could provide patients with a better health care service could not be the competitive situation, see the report. the example I mentioned. It must be cooperation. It has to be that by getting the public and the private to cooperate more closely on the patient, getting at chains that hang together, making sure that those who have the highest need, are also given priority first, we are developing a better health care system. Health is at all very little suitable for competition. What we see in any competition situation is that if someone wins the competition, it's the other one that loses. If what we're concerned about is developing chains in health care, is that we need to strengthen every segment in the chain, of course, we can't develop a system where you're going to compete in the chain, so that single joints in the chain are lost on the road. That means that you no longer have a chain; you have a term that works in a simple way, but that doesn't work in a relationship between you and me. In SV, we are much more concerned that we should look at each level and look at how we can get that level to work together with the other levels, so that, in sum, we ensure that patients who have the most needs are also those who take priority in the health sector. So this could be an important step on the way. Of course, it should be in the interests of healthcare undertakings to enter into operational arrangements which optimise the use of public and private capacity in joint cooperation so that the worst patients are given the highest priority. I am addressing the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party that is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e226	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e229	The centre party is pleased that we are now, hopefully, getting a better deal between the private operators in laboratories and x-ray institutes and the public specialist health service. It is important that we ensure this because of the enormous growth in the use and expenditure of private laboratories and the X-ray institute that we have seen in recent years. The Committee has also pointed out that this need to be better monitored. At the same time, we must ensure that the patient's needs have priority. It's very important, and that's why I'm a little surprised that the majority, consisting of the government parties and the Progress Party, at least officially seems to be most concerned with competition in this sector and privatisation, almost costing what it will cost. Fortunately, at least the legal text is so precise that it would be possible for what is now happening in the legal context, to have a clean relationship and thus also to have control of resource use. It is important, as the last speaker also pointed out, that we have used the capacity both in public and private activities in the field of laboratories and the X-ray institute. However, it must not be such that the competitive advantage is to be given to private individuals in such a way that the cost growth continues to be enormous. The Central Party and the Socialist Left took up in the context of the examination of the 2004 budget and also now for 2005 that social security benefits to cover expenditure on private laboratory and x-ray services in their entirety should be transferred to regional health establishments. We believe that by means of such channelling, there will be a better prioritisation and cooperation, and thus also a better use of resources, and that there is a significant rationalisation benefit for these services to coordinate it this way. We believe that the specialist health service in this way can also get a better overview of this work and thereby get a faster run for the patient where priority in referral and referral time gets better. Therefore, the SV and the Central Party are promoting this proposal, where we ask the Government to make a legislative proposal whereby reimbursement to private laboratories and the X-ray institute is carried out through regional healthcare companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e240	This proposition makes it clear that only benefits should be provided to cover the costs of testing, investigation and treatment involving agreements between service providers and regional health care providers. These are arrangements and a proposal that the Christian People's Party is behind. We think this is a good way of ensuring that patients' needs are being looked at in the center. The purpose of these proposed changes in the financial instrument for private laboratory and radiologist services is to ensure that regional health professionals are responsible for and better able to plan and prioritise the pooling of supply of laboratory and radiologist services within the health sector and within their own health region. Laboratory and radiology tests are essential to ensure proper diagnosis, treatment and post-control, and patients should therefore continue to be guaranteed good access to such services. At the same time, financial instruments need to be set up so that these services are viewed in conjunction with other treatments and diagnostics. The current right means that the responsibility for managing access to these healthcare services within the health region and the responsibility for managing the use of resources within the sector is not collected at all. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that today's division of responsibilities does not take into account the objective allocation and good use of the resources available. This distribution of responsibilities means that businesses have not had sufficient motivation to focus on the use of resources in the planning of the collaborative laboratory and radiology services. This is also some reason for the unlikely increase in volume we've seen. The great distance between the person who is to dimension a service and the person who contributes significantly to the funding poses a risk of undesirable effects, e.g.: the use of services is significantly greater than the medical needs. The conditions under which private laboratories or radiologists must agree with regional health care providers in order to trigger social security disintegration for the patient will allow some to control the cumulative costs in this area. The Christian People's Party therefore supports these changes from the Government. Then we from the Christian People's Party's side are a little surprised by the strong argument that is used about what's in the committee position relative to private. It is true that some regional health agencies have had problems dealing with contracts with private subcontractors within the time limits to which they are subject. Private subcontractors often find that contracts are concluded without any negotiation of new contractual periods, and that therefore one operates a business where one cannot have a viable framework. The Christian People's Party is therefore concerned that the law changes are implemented in a tidy way, with temptations that both parties must adhere to. The Christian People's Party is therefore in the committee position in conjunction with the others to ensure that the change in the laws will not take effect until a few months later, so that private actors who may not get an agreement get the time they need for conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e251	Regional health enterprises are responsible for specialist health services for the population in their region. The legislative proposal, as set out in Innst. O. No 35 will increase the responsibility of regional undertakings for the overall supply of laboratory and radiology services. In recent years, expenditure on laboratory and radiology services has increased significantly both in the public and private sectors. The system we have today means that responsibility for managing resource use within the sector is not collected at one time. The changes now proposed by the Committee will result in better control of the use of resources by regional health establishments, for the benefit of patients. An overall committee wants the agreements to be an economic management tool, not a self-monitoring tool. 35-40 pst. by the services of the private sector are currently carried out outside of agreements with regional health establishments. Private operators are thus an important supplier of laboratory and radiology services. There has been some dissatisfaction with how regional health companies have managed agreements with private actors. It must be stressed that the tendering procedures are carried out in a orderly manner and that the procurement rules are complied with. The Committee wishes to postpone its entry into force from 1 May 2005 to 1 September 2005 and proposes two clear deadlines to which the parties must relate: The agreements shall be concluded by 1 May at the latest. The amendment will enter into force on 1 September. The budget foresees that tariffs will be halved from 1 May 2005. In the case of a postponement of the legislative amendment to 1 September, there is a lot of talk that the proposed halving of the tariffs should also be postponed to the same date. This will involve a shift between budget chapters. Such a proposal will be promoted in the context of the 2005 revised national budget. In addition, the majority believe that patients’ freedom of choice must also be exercised in laboratory and radiology services. In its proposal, the Ministry has proposed that agreements between regional health establishments and private enterprises should regulate the types of services to be provided from the establishment and thus trigger social security suspension. The Committee agrees and stresses that the arrangements must be designed to meet the overall needs of patients. We must strive to ensure that diagnosis is carried out in the best possible way for patients. The Committee does not consider it appropriate to limit the agreements to a narrow range of services in cases where the range of the services offered by the undertakings is wide, and also to stress that, as a general rule, the duration of the agreements should be at least two years. This is the general rule for the current regulation. The Ministry of Health agrees that this principle should be maintained. The Committee considers that there must be an agreement with one regional health undertaking which decides whether regional health undertakings should grant reimbursement. Here I assume that it is aimed at the social security disintegration. In order to contribute to a good transition, the Minister of Health proposes that regional health enterprises buy a minimum volume of services for two years. In order to be able to quantify the minimum volume before the tendering process starts, it is originally assumed by the Ministry that the volume for 2003 will be taken into account. The majority of the Committee requires undertakings to take account of growth in 2004. This will be ensured by the Ministry in the order documents of the regional health establishments. As the Committee is aware, preliminary activity figures for 2004 are uncertain. Therefore, undertakings would have to apply some judgement to the issue. As regards the proposed amendment to the Patient Rights Act, which is of a purely technical nature, it should enter into force as soon as possible after the adoption of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e292	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 273]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e307	I ask for the word just to take up the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that is included on page 6 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e312	The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 273]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e329	The realities of this matter were discussed during the budget debate last week, so I will not go into them. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that a majority in the Committee is opposed to this introduction of tax havens in the Saltwater Fishing Act, while the tax haven is likely to have a majority during the Odelstingen treatment today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e336	I refer you to the rapporteur's statement, and on that basis I allow myself, on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, to take up the proposal of the minority in the Committee, which is set out on page 3 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e341	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 276]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e358	As in the previous case, we took the debate on the realities in the context of the budget procedure in the Business Committee. There is a majority in the committee, but a minority in Odelstinget rejects the government's proposal and a minority in the committee, but a majority in Odelstinget are in favour of the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e365	Here we get the second very good file rapporteur in a row! And on the same basis and with the same reason, I allow myself to take up the Committee's minority proposals on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, as set out on page 5 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e370	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e387	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e396	From being a minister I had respect for in substance and knowledge when she joined in 2001, State Council Erna Solberg today stands for what I would call an increasingly inhumane refugee policy, the whole goal of which seems to be that Norway is increasingly approaching the strict policies of the other countries of Northern Europe. I believe that this matter is an example of this. The issue is that we exclude a group of people from being allowed to participate in the introduction programmes that were introduced as mandatory from 1 September this year. We have several groups that will be able to participate in the introduction programs. We have the group that gets to live as quota refugees, which are the people who are being transferred over the UN quota, who come from the UN refugee camps. We have the group of people who get asylum. For 2003, there were about 600 people. Those who receive asylum are the people who are allowed to stay because they are considered to be individually persecuted in the countries from which they come. They are allowed to participate in the introduction programmes, and the municipality receives a sum of money, called integration grants, to finance these programmes. We have great faith that the introduction programmes will lead to more people getting into work, and there is also a guarantee of income, where those participating in these programmes receive twice the basic amount, approximately 117 000 kroner, while they participate in the training. It is therefore a targeted programme of Norwegian training, which is aimed at ensuring people's competence and skills, so that they can manage themselves in the Norwegian labour market. In other words, the refugees who receive asylum receive this programme. Similarly, the group of people who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis is given. One group is given individual residence and therefore asylum because they are individually persecuted. These people are individually persecuted in the sense that they, for example, are has been engaged in political work. If you are a refugee from Iran, you will be regarded as individually persecuted and given asylum. If you are collectively persecuted, as a refugee from Darfur, you will not initially receive asylum, but you would like to have a stay on humanitarian grounds. So if you've fled from somewhere, and the family is left somewhere on the road, you'll want family reunion with your wife and children – mainly wives, because there are often men who come alone. And then the Government believes that the people who are individually persecuted, in this context, are in a completely different situation than the people who are collectively persecuted. Thus, in the opinion of the Committee and in the opinion of the Government, they are unable to promote one single factual argument as to why they believe that there should be a difference between these two groups. The only argument it highlights with some weight is that since 2003 an obligation has been imposed on those who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis to earn 170,000 kroner before they are reunited with their families, it is therefore the responsibility of each person to take care of them. I think this will lead to more municipalities refusing to accept people who have been accommodated on a humanitarian basis. Several of the metropolitan municipalities in the West have already notified it. The council's own municipality, Bergen, has said that this is a practice that they find totally unsustainable. I think this will put the integration of refugees back in step with what we've actually come together to achieve from 1 September this year. It is fundamentally unfair, and it is a fundamental inhuman practice, to distinguish clearly between these two groups, that is, those who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis and those who receive asylum. In addition, the government's policy is in stark contrast to that of working specifically for the integration of immigrant women and children. I would like to take up with this the minority proposal that we have with the Center Party, the proposal to remove the requirement of living for this group of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e419	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e422	As of 1 September of this year, all municipalities have had an obligation to offer new arrivals a two-year introduction programme. In this proposition, the Government proposes that the personality of the law of introduction be narrowed. It is the family reunion of persons who have received a humanitarian stay, who will then have the right and obligation to Norwegian training instead of participation in an introduction programme. However, the individual municipality may choose on a free basis to include the group in its introduction scheme. Right supports Government proposal. Different relationships indicate that this narrowing of the circle of persons should be carried out. Firstly, the Stortinget has previously decided that from 1 May 2003, family reunification will require maintenance for those who have been granted a humanitarian residence. The aim is that the person should become self-driving through the introduction programme and connection to the labour market. If the person living here is integrated into the labour market before reunification, it will be easier to help the family adapt to a life in Norway. In other words, it is assumed that he is caring for his or her own family by virtue of his or her position as an employee. We look at this group in the same way as migrant workers who are also supposed to be able to support their own family members by virtue of their position as employees. In this context, it is important to note that the 2G introductory service is not high enough to meet the maintenance requirement. It has been argued from a different angle that the maintenance requirement is not real and therefore does not work as intended. We take this into account and now ask the Government to consider an increase in the amount. Both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are behind the majority view on this. Norway should pursue an immigration policy that does not differ significantly from the policy pursued in most of our neighbouring European countries — as in this case too. With the exception of Sweden, maintenance is required by other countries, and in some other countries, family reunification is subject to stricter requirements than in Norway. In the United Kingdom, for example, the principal must have lived in the country for four years. In Germany, the principle is that there is no family reunification for this group, and in Denmark the rules are stricter than in Norway. The government has reduced a sample to review and propose a new foreign law. The committee's proposal shall be made subject to consultation. According to the sample, non-residents with a need for protection should no longer be allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis, but on asylum status. If this is adopted, the new provision on humanitarian grounds will in that case become a pure provision for humanitarian stay, while people with a need for protection will be granted asylum status and better rights. I think such a change can have a lot to do, and meets both the hearing opinions and the forthcoming treatment in the Storting. In conclusion, I would like to clarify that the new system of right and duty to training in Norwegian and social knowledge is not affected by the change in this case. The group we are talking about here does not come under the law of introduction, but will have the right and obligation to Norwegian training, at least 300 hours, but mostly 3,000 hours, after an individual assessment. I refer to our proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e439	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e442	On the basis of two different arguments, the Government argues that family reunifications who have lived on a humanitarian basis are no longer to receive induction aid and that the municipalities where they live will no longer receive integration grants. One argument is: ‘If it is integrated into the labour market before reunification, it will be easier for him/her to help the family adapt to a life in Norway.’ The second argument is: ‘Family reunification of persons with such a residence or work permit is no longer considered to be a group for which the Norwegian State can be said to have a specific responsibility.’ In addition, the Government says: ‘A consequence of the fact that family members of persons with a residence or work permit granted under the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act are no longer exempted from the maintenance requirement under the foreign legislation should be that they are no longer covered by the introduction scheme.’ The Party of Progress shares these arguments and these points of view. It is this that is essential in the matter that we are dealing with. The proposed amendments to the Introduction Act will result in the introduction programme not covering the costs of those who themselves are involved in family reunification and who are initially expected – and should be expected by all – to be cared for by those who are behind the family reunification. This considers the Progress Party to be important premises. It is also in line with the intention that the Foreign Affairs Act is built around, precisely this, that the person who collects family members on reunification has an independent responsibility for caring. The progressing party has focused several times on the fact that the dependant requirement is too modest. In the light of the proposed amendment, this underlines the need for stricter dependability requirements, as family reunification needs to be integrated. If these two elements are not seen in the context, one could risk those people depriving themselves of the integration process and therefore falling to a greater extent outside society. Therefore, it is important to focus on the maintenance requirement and is likely to reinforce the requirement. That is why I am pleased that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are united in assessing whether this requirement should be reinforced. I don't want to hide that in that context we also want to have claims for owner-occupied housing, that's very important. With regard to what the rapporteur said about the process of integration and women, I share those views. But here I will refer to the treatment of Ot.prp. No 50 for 2003-2004, where the Committee stressed in particular the need to focus on women. For I also believe, like the rapporteur, that it is important that we focus on the fact that the integration process must start from that point of view. But that doesn't mean that the Progress Party will follow the Socialist Left in providing even more assistance in that these cannot be integrated as independents into Norwegian society. We in the Progress Party are also somewhat skeptical, as is said here, as to whether this will result in major challenges for the community sector. That's why we're awake, and we're already going to signal – and I don't think so either Christian People's Party and Right are opponents of – that we're still going to focus on how this will affect the municipal sector, and possibly come back and make evaluations and adjustments that are more accurate, if it turns out that this won't work in relation to integration into the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e475	If you were to seek advice on a strategy to prevent the integration and inclusion of the most possible immigrants who have recently arrived here, I think there are seven advices that would point out. First of all, there's some doubt about the background that the individual immigrants or refugees have come to Norway, by carefully sorting out the basis for them to come. Did they get asylum? Did they get suspended here because they needed protection, or did they get abstinence on a humanitarian basis? Secondly, pay particular attention to women. If one integrates them, one could risk integrating the whole family. Thirdly, remove for all parts the integration add-ons for several. Then a guarantee will be that the municipalities will not be so committed to integration. Fourth, reverses the successful construction that has been for single refugees and that KS and the department together have announced that they are very content. It must be stopped immediately. This may result in more people being integrated and included. Fifth, set the maintenance requirement so high that it's difficult to both participate in an introduction program and save yourself money to get the family to Norway. Sixth, don't listen to the municipalities for all. Keep very deaf ears so that inflections on different fields can lead to less bets on the part of the municipalities. And, as if that wasn't enough, a seventh point: make sure that future ones are not certain. Give some rules for one year that will be reversed in the second year. I find this reason to remind you that the basis for family reunification was removed in 1997 but reintroduced in 2003. It's a trick, because it creates uncertainty in the municipalities about what they're going to bet on. I include an eighth point: keep all the permissions low on organizations that work locally with integration and inclusion. One might think that there was such advice the Government had now listened to, when it on the one hand submits a separate notice of participation and inclusion to be addressed in the Stortinget after Christmas, and, on the other hand, in the 2005 budget, comes with the restrictions in Ot.prp. No 2nd@item: I want to say on behalf of the Center Party: it was the most we didn't believe what we were reading. The Minister of Local Affairs and Representatives of the Government are regularly out there saying that they should strengthen their ability to be integrated into the municipalities. They should increase the focus on non-discrimination. They shall increase the focus on the situation of women. It is said that they should strengthen the integration contribution. At the same time, they take it away from some groups. They're happy that they've built more of them by themselves. They say they have good dialogue with the municipalities. And then this entire proposition is just a long proof of the opposite. The game is a long distance from the proposals that are presented here. We think they would lead to uncertainty for municipalities when it comes to constancy. We believe that this will lead to fewer people being busied, and we believe that fewer people will be included and integrated. In the end, when it comes to entertainment requirements, I would like to see those who are able to participate in a programme as well as to think so much that they are able to meet the requirements that have been set for entertainment in order to get their relatives to Norway. It may look as if they have been deliberately set up to prevent those who come on humanitarian grounds from getting their family to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e507	Today, we are dealing with a change in the law of introduction. I guess that's good and good. I'll say a few words about the introduction law in general. Once it's become so that asylum seekers or immigrants who are co-residents can get 2 G when they move in and get status in that country, and citizens in that country get 1.5 G, it's a question of whether not citizens of this country should have been asylum seekers, so they would have got 2 G, too. I am not against immigrants and asylum-seekers getting 2 G, but the rest must also have it. There is something that is completely wrong when we give more money to those who come into the country. Some of these people throw their papers and refuse to give their own identity. They don't come because they need help, but they come for completely different reasons. And at the same time, once they have gained asylum seekers' status and become immigrants, they get 2 G – much more than the people who live in this country get. It's not on your fingertips. We're all asked if we'd all become asylum seekers, so we'd have 2 Gs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e514	I don't think I'm going to let Heikki Holmås' assessments of what are factual reasons, be the basis for saying that we don't have a single factual argument in this context, as he started by saying. It is that we treat family reunification with people who have been given humanitarian residence, and it is not about collective persecution. All those who have been granted humanitarian residence have been individually assessed in relation to their need for protection. So these are not collective grounds for persecution. We treat those who become family reunited, in the same way as everyone else who becomes family reunited in Norway, with the exception of those who are family reunited with refugees. That means that everyone else who becomes family reunited, those who marry here to the country, and others, gets exactly the same treatment as those who have been given humanitarian residence. Of course, you can choose to say that this is a group that you have to compare with those who get asylum based, or you can choose to say that you should compare them with those who come to this country and get an assessment of whether they can support the person who comes. I think that is important for the sake of integration. I actually believe that both Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Heikki Holmås are wrong if they believe that it is not important to make sure that there are incentives that make more people come to work faster, even though we also have the introduction system, by making sure that there is a carrot, such as carrot. a family reunification may be. It is true that we have a record of living alone this year, after the bill was promoted in Stortinget. The bill is known. We have increased the integration grant to the municipalities in order to get up in the municipal sector that has asked for it. And one of the questions that the municipalities have often raised in the past is the uncertainty about living alone, because they have been afraid that there will be more in the family, and that this will result in a family reunion later on. That we introduced the dependability requirement, which meant that after five to six weeks it was not suddenly discovered that there would be more people than those who had first agreed to settle, many municipalities seem to have been fine. So I want to say that this government is strongly committed to integration. We have both expanded and systematized the integration work. We have stated that there should be more rights and obligations within all groups of immigrants coming to this country. And it's not that those who become family reunited with people who live on a humanitarian basis do not come under integration measures. They come under the same integration measure, namely the right and obligation to Norwegian education, which all those who marry this country get. It is also very important to ensure that we have a good job in the municipalities. But to say that you give an introduction benefit to people who are originally told to be dependants is illogical to many. The fact that you're basically saying that you should try to see if a person can have a dependability for the person who's coming, and that it's a principle that the person who's already here should take care of the one who's coming, and then after day two in Norway, you're actually going to get 2 G in salary during the introduction period, is also illogical. It makes sense to participate in and have the right and duty to Norwegian training, to have the opportunity. And we need to strengthen our work in the future. We need to get people to work faster, including in the group who are marrying here to the country, not just those who are allowed to stay under the humanitarian housing paragraphs. It is also important that we ensure that when you have a dependant, it is an actual dependant. It is therefore not certain that municipalities will have more expenditure on these than on non-residents who marry Norwegians in Norway. There's no greater burden to it. I have noticed that some municipalities claim that they will then have greater financial burdens with them, including: by having medical services, schools and all these things — yes, but all those who move to Norway because they have married a Northman and are happy in him. There are expenses that any municipality has, regardless of who had to move there, or what the basis of the law on foreigners must have for it. In fact, it is part of what the local authority transfers are supposed to take into account, to provide financial assistance to the municipalities in order to enable them to have a general offer to all the inhabitants of the municipality. What we're trying to do is make this make sense. Putting this into a perspective that we're going to be negative to integration, as the committee leader tried to do in his post, I think it's contradictory. In fact, we have systematically made proposals to the Storting in order to improve integration work, both in municipalities and in relation to rights and obligations for immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e529	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e533	The proposal for consideration, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party, reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government in the ongoing work on a general maintenance requirement for family reunification to focus on a comprehensive economic assessment. In this context, the Stortinget Government is also asking the Government to assess an increase in the amount.’;» My questions to the Council of State are: What other areas is it possible to assess in a comprehensive way in order to impose family reunification requirements? In addition to what goes on in general economic terms, are there other areas considered by the Council of State and the Government in this context? My next question might go a little beyond what is happening today. But there are a number of people who are not included in these matters as well. For example, the Government and the Council of State have ongoing assessments in relation to, for example: the obligation to work for those who have to go on social assistance, etc., and are not included directly in relation to this type of restriction?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e545	When one of the proposers asks me to explain his proposal, I would say that we should consider what we perceive lies in the proposal promoted by the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. In the case of family reunification, the main question is to discuss the amount. In the context of family reunification, there are also questions about types of economy other than wages and salaries. Some people may have wealth, there are not many of them who come and apply for a stay, who have it, but there are people who have it. Some people may have other means of living, and it may be appropriate to look at them more closely. There may also be questions about guarantee obligations, about whether there is an economic development of a person that would make it very likely that one could get above the family reunification threshold. But I think we need to spend some time looking at this. I would like to stress that one of the main challenges in making the entertainment requirement more real than it is today is primarily the question of how our social arrangements are designed. The second question asked is: social law provides for the right to require compulsory employment. It could have used significantly more municipalities than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e556	I repeat my claim that the Council of State has not yet managed to produce any factual arguments as to why this scheme is being modified. I would like to highlight the paradox or contradiction here in relation to what is said in the motion for a resolution, where it says: ‘Family reunification of persons with such a residence or work permit is no longer considered to be a group for which the Norwegian State can be said to have a specific responsibility.’ Interestingly, it is in this way that policy changes are taking place – especially when Kari Lise Holmberg says that she believes it would be good for a larger proportion of this group to be granted asylum in the context of the treatment of foreign legislation and thus to be within the group for which it is said to take special responsibility. Can Erna Solberg explain to me the consistency between Right’s policies on the Stortinget and Right’s claims in government? And can she also be so kind as to explain to me what it is about the integration grant scheme for this team that has worked so poorly, since she has now decided to remove it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e568	It is therefore that no proposal has been made for a new foreign law by the Government. We're going to review the suggestions we get. Neither is it the case that all those in this group would have asylum. There are relatively many, but the majority of the group who get humanitarian residence would not come under the asylum rules with the new law either, but some of them would. And that's exactly what I, as the Council of State, have actually been concerned about: that we have too few who get asylum, and too many who get humanitarian residence. That signal has also been received by the foreign authorities. That's why more people get asylum today than it was before this government joined, precisely because we've been concerned that we're going to meet the criticism that you're a little too easily cutting things off before they get up. It is clear that there have been changes. The most important changes I have made, with the consent of the Storting, along with the same parties that join this law, was that on 1 May 2003 we introduced a dependant requirement for this group. We put in place a law on an introduction system that means that everyone who comes under this law has the right to get 2 G in wages, while actually being cared for by the one who has already come. It'll be illogical, we'll clean it up, and I think that's actually pretty factual.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e575	What is a logical argument in this matter has been a question. For me, a refugee who has been detained on a humanitarian basis will have the same anxiety for his family, if any, who is reuniting somewhere. And then it has to be logical to say that we get a code that makes it easier and not harder for that person to get his family settled. Secondly, it would be logical to listen to the experiences of local authorities. There I understand the council so that KS and the municipalities have given a different signal to the ministry than they have given to the committee. So we've read that there's a number of municipalities that say no to busy more refugees from New Year's, because of these changes. We also got the same message from KS. I asked for clarification from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e582	I think what the Center Party and SV do is completely logical. They are opposed to having dependants, therefore, of course they would also say that municipalities should receive integration grants and that people should be covered by the Introduction Act. But they should also accept that we believe that the order is different, that there is a logical context here, and that it is actually related. It would not be consistent to continue to maintain a dependant requirement at the same time as not having a dependant obligation towards the person who is coming, because the government takes over the service through the introduction system, which would therefore be a strange distinction compared to other groups that have it. As regards the municipal question, my referral was based on the opinions used by many municipalities to justify that they would not settle lonely earlier, before we introduced the dependant requirement on 1 May 2003. It was uncertain whether it would be that when you settled a lonely, there would be additional family. There is no doubt that the KS and the municipalities wanted integration grants for this group, and I have not said anything about that either. It makes sense that they want money, but it's illogical when it's not related to the demand we make to people who are coming to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e591	The Council of State here refers to the requirement of dependance, as if that's what makes it logical that these things are connected. What we might have to ask is, what was the logic behind the introduction of this dependency requirement? Well, the logic behind this dependency requirement is that the Council of State Erna Solberg believes that it is easier to compare a refugee who is allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis, who is illiterate from Somalia, with a Norwegian who is marrying a Russian lady, and for whom dependance is therefore required, than it is to compare him with another refugee, who cannot nor Norwegian, and who comes from another place. It is this comparison that is the most hair-traveling, in my opinion, and that makes it an inhuman refugee policy instead of a refugee policy that focuses on the good integration of the refugees as it is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e598	Maybe it's important to say that there's another comparison here, that's that this Somali was essentially lonely. It goes on for a few years, and then he finds out that he wants to marry someone from his home country. Then we've always made demands for support. He may be equally illiterate, but we've always asked for a living when you remarry. If you have not asked for a living in the past, it has only been with the dependent group who was married before coming to Norway. There's a fairly large proportion where marriages are concluded afterwards, actually one of the largest shares we have of family reunions, of people who come to the country, who are just in the situation of coming here alone, and then you get married later. That, I think, is a completely comparable situation, and in such cases we have always made demands for support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e605	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e608	Today, the proceedings in Stortinget have gone faster than I have been able to calculate, so I am sorry that I have not been able to participate in the entire debate. It's surprising that the government, just a short time after the introduction law was passed and the personality was determined, comes to the Stortinget with a change in who will come under the law. It was actually such that the government scolded the unhindered by the introduction system when it was presented, even though there was a system that the government was required to put in place. Then it is surprising that the contractions come before the arrangement is properly started. The working party believes that this is tricking the municipalities. Many municipalities have planned to accept lone refugees, on the basis that the scheme would work as it was adopted. This does not create trust between government, population growth and municipalities, with a common task of settling and integrating refugees in need of protection in Norway. I have also noticed that the Progress Party has purchased the proposal for a reduction in the number of persons in return for the Government to investigate and increase the size of the maintenance requirement. It's not surprising. The working party is concerned about tightening the circuit. Applicants for family reunification following the granting of a residence and work permit to the principal will now be excluded from the introduction programme. It becomes a paradox when families applying for family reunification at the same time as the principal remain subject to the law and receive introduction benefits. This won't be easy to explain. We are concerned that the settlement of lone refugees again stops. Municipalities must be praised for having lived in many lonely areas in the autumn after the KS, UDI and Husbanken carried out a settlement operation. Several municipalities have already notified their skepticism of living alone with families in their home country. The Labour Party understands that with the poor economy that many municipalities now have, there is every reason to believe that withdrawals from introduction support will be a contributing cause for fewer people to settle. This is especially true in the press communities, and that is where the refugees want to live. The Labour Party will therefore follow developments closely and invoke the right to return to the case, if it appears that what is now adopted is slowing down the settlement, that lonely people become residents even further in reception, etc. The Labour Party does not agree that it should be disposed of differently within the framework of which the majority of the Grand Duchy, the Government Parties and the Advance Party have adopted for the following year. The fact that the integration grant is increasing is good and helps with a sub-financed reform, which Stortinget has imposed on the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e627	Even if we are late in the debate, the Christian People's Party will state that the integration of immigrants is a two-way process. It's about the will of the immigrant to participate and the will of the big community for inclusion. Equal opportunities, rights and obligations are important instruments in the integration process. Caring for themselves and their families through work forms the basis for family well-being and is the most important response to poverty. Work provides social recognition, creates economic autonomy and contributes to improved quality of life and mutual understanding. This applies not least to people with an immigration background. That's why it's a political goal for the Christian People's Party to secure a fit and a level playing field in the world of work for everyone. It requires society to create incentives that make it appropriate to take an active part in the world of work rather than to get out of work. This is the only way we can keep on working and developing well-being in our society. On 1 May 2003, family-unification maintenance obligations were reintroduced for people who have been granted leave on a humanitarian basis. The legislation we now manage is a consequence of this and results in the right and obligation of the introduction program falling away for this group. We believe that it stimulates faster self-help. If those who already live in the country are integrated into the labour market before unification, it will be easier to help the family adapt to a life in Norway. By means of the legislation we are now debating, the state indicates that these people are responsible for caring for their family members. These persons are not treated as a group for which the Norwegian State may claim to have a specific responsibility, in addition to the responsibility for the inhabitants in general. This group will now be placed side by side with immigrants. For them, the obligation to be able to support own family members by virtue of their position as wage earners shall also apply. The maintenance requirement and size may appear low. The Christian People's Party is therefore concerned that the Government should assess the size of the amount. The emphasis is on sound economic assessment. It must be assumed that the income requirement gives real access to family support. This is necessary to avoid family becoming dependent on economic social assistance pending the arrival of family members. Language competence forms the basis for participation. It is therefore important for me to make it clear that although this group is no longer included in the introduction programme, it is covered by the right and duty of training in Norwegian and social sciences. I would also like to add that, at the discretion of the municipalities, they can choose to offer the introduction programme to these people if they find it appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e643	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e646	I really didn't think I was going to do anything as rude as trying to sum up this debate. This is a debate in which part of the lines of Norwegian refugee and immigration policy are very clear. The government has a clear objective of placing more emphasis on immigration policy considerations. In other words, instead of thinking about what's right and wrong in relation to this group, you look at what you can do to get the least possible refugees from this group, as Kari Lise Holmberg said, while you should also focus on what's the good integration policy for those who come here. It is worth noting that there is not a single group, assembly or municipality outside this house that has stated that there is a lurking integration policy that we are now pursuing. On the contrary, everyone has said the opposite. It's like we're now introducing a clearer distinction, because we have a collective term on this group. We call them refugees. What we're doing now is we're taking part of the refugee group and saying that for them there's a different policy in relation to family reunification and integration grants than for the other group of movements. The municipalities are not primarily concerned about, as Erna Solberg says, getting more money. They are committed to providing a good integration offer to the coming group of people. Either they're early or they're late, it'll be so they won't get an integration program. The municipalities consider this to be a poor integration policy. And then I'm baffling with the Christian People's Party's family policy, which in this case is that they think it's right that people who come, who can't Norwegian very well, and who will therefore spend time getting out of work, should be long separated from their children and their family members. for they consider that it is right to pursue a family policy. At least it's not a very good family policy. I think I'll just end up saying that well, now this is going to be like it is. We have noticed that Erna Solberg is well disposed to be stuck up to the Per Sandberg Progress Party in this matter. It's possible that they'll be comfortable with that. The rest of us find it unpleasant. But on the other hand, it does reflect on how policies in this field have evolved over the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e661	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 278]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e676	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 279]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e691	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e700	Today, the Stortinget takes an important equality course by giving father birth grants in the spring quota on the basis of his own earnings. The Christian People's Party is satisfied that Dad's wage compensation in the father's quota is no longer dependent on his mother's job share. Fathers entitled to a parental allowance receive birth benefit from the new year in these four weeks based on their own share of employment. The proposal will improve the financial capacity of father to take out the feather quota, and at the same time it will simplify the legislation by not having to take into account Mother's working time in the liquidation of the feather quota. I am pleased that a joint committee supports the Government's proposals. The proposal is a legal follow-up to the 2005 state budget proposal. The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have made a proposal asking the Government to investigate how birth money is spent on those who give birth, on students and on those who give birth to more children. The same parties also wish to examine a proposal for an extended maternity allowance scheme for twin parents, parents of vibration, etc. There is no reason to disagree that many of these groups have a challenging postnatal situation. However, when several of us do not support this proposal, it is for our part that we do not want separate investigations on these issues. However, I would recommend that the Government look at these proposals in its further work and perhaps come back to the Grand Duchy with changes at a later stage, if it considers it necessary. The Socialist Left also promotes a proposal to amend the People's Rights Act so that both parents are entitled to benefits at birth based on their own earnings, regardless of the other's professional activity before birth. This is a proposal that the Christian People's Party primarily supports, but we follow the priority that an overall committee supports in the treatment of the family message. There was a consensus that the fathers who already have the right to a father's allowance should first be granted an independent right of use. Father's quota is not just about equality. Today’s decision will also give children more contact with father. That's what children need, and it's important for dad. Today, contact with mother is greatest, while father is less accessible. Father and child provide the basis for a good relationship already in the first year of life. Research shows that fathers who have longer time with their child during the first year of life will give more priority to the child throughout the infant period. Therefore, it is important that society facilitates increasing fathers’ time with children. It is a good investment to give fathers the best possible contact with the children early in their childhood. It will delight both mother, father and child. The Christian People's Party wants to facilitate that both sexes can combine work and family. It is therefore positive that most fathers are now using the four-week feather quota, and that these are now being given the independent right to income from birth. The independence of fathers was first introduced from 1 July 2000. That decision concerned that part of the leave which the parents can freely share, i.e. with the exception of the nine weeks of mother's birth and the four-week statutory spring quota. In the Family Communication, the Government outlined proposals for changes to the maternity benefit scheme with a focus on parents as equivalent caregivers, freedom of choice for the family and a simpler regulation. It is important to have an equal birth grant scheme, so that each parent is entitled to a birth grant on the basis of his own earnings. With today's arrangement, father receives birth allowance in the spring allowance based on his own job fraction if his mother works in at least 75 pst. position. However, the father’s right to birth benefit is based on her mother’s employment if she works between 50 and 75 pst. of a full-time job before birth, even if father is working full-time. The proposal does not mean that more fathers than today are entitled to a father's allowance, but that the compensation under the father's quota will be better for families where mother has worked in 50–75 pst. prenatal position. The amendment shall apply to all births or adoptions after 1 January of the following year. This proposal is an important step towards an increasingly equal birth grant scheme, regardless of the working situation of the other parent before and after birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e726	In a demanding infant phase, it is important that both parents take their share of responsibility. Today, fathers take a more active part in caring for their own children, but it is still mainly the mothers who make adjustments between care and work. Few fathers take leave beyond the father's quota, and few fathers work part-time. A greater degree of equality in the home arena is about more relationships. It's about mom having to let go of dad, it's about dad being conscious of his responsibilities, and it's about working life having to accept that men are also caregivers. The Norwegian labour market is gender-divided. Men and women work in different sectors, and in leadership positions we find mainly men. Many fathers meet with little understanding from employers when they want to give priority to family. The experience with the parental quota shows that a period reserved for father has had a positive effect both in relation to the distribution between mother and father and in relation to working life. The right considers it necessary to further strengthen the rights of fathers to maternity benefits. So far, the compensation paid by the fathers under the family allowance has been determined by the job breaks of the mother during the working hours. This means that not everyone has had the opportunity to use the birth rate, because the family is losing too much on it. Furthermore, a large group of fathers according to today's legislation have not been entitled to a federal quota at all. Then they have been cut off from the possibility of paid maternity leave, because mothers have not earned birth benefit through work and have not been out of work or education after birth. So far, it has also been the case that father’s rights under the father’s quota have been reduced by the corresponding mother’s job fraction whose mother worked in 50–75 pst. prenatal position. The government's bill, which I am pleased to have a unanimous agreement here today, will give fathers the right to birth grant under the father's quota based on their own professional activity and employment share. The family will not lose financially under the father's quota because Mother had worked part-time before birth. It's very positive that this law is starting to work from New Year's. With regard to SV’s comment on this case on one third of the maternity leave according to the Icelandic model, where one third are reserved for mother, one third are reserved for father and one third can be used by the family as it wishes, the Right considers this to be a major overarching of the family’s own choice. For the Right, the most important thing is to facilitate the freedom of choice for families, while for the Right, SV is more excited to deprive mother and father of power over his own life in the care of his own children. Today's birth grant arrangement, with nine weeks reserved for mother, four weeks reserved for father and the rest that they can do as they wish, works very well. Right will ensure the family's right to decide for themselves, and we are strong opponents of the SV override proposed here. I'm glad that the law adopted today by Odelstinget guarantees all fathers the right to paper commission based on their own earnings. This is an important step in the right direction of a more equal birth grant scheme, in which the family's freedom of choice is safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e749	In order for the two previous speakers to be reprisald, I must join in what they have said. But anyway, it's interesting to see the political dividing lines in a case like this. Even here, where the political parties agree on individual objectives, the differences are striking. The progress party is satisfied that the father’s wage compensation in the father’s quota no longer depends on his mother’s employment share. For us, such independent generation represents real equality. Father's pay compensation shall not be reduced even if mother works between 50 and 75 pst. before birth. The proposal thus gives fathers greater opportunities to make use of the parental quota even if mother is working part-time before birth. In the context of the family notification, it was stressed that the long-term objective of each parent’s entitlement to own-earning birth grant is a long-term one, regardless of the other’s professional activity before birth. In this way, it will be easier for father to take out the feather quota, even in cases where mother has reduced the employment rate. Of course, we're doing this to strengthen children's rights to both parents. We believe that fathers should have an independent right of access to paperwork, and that this should be increased to an extent. Therefore, all fathers should be granted the right to four weeks' paper commission based on their own earnings. There should be real equality between mother and father in terms of their ability to be at home with the child in the first year of life. For us, it's important to work for equal rights to leave for both parents. At the same time, we believe that it is important to look at the overall framework for compensation for young children’s parents. Several other parties, classic spending parties, do not see such limitations. They find it opportune to tempt young children's parents with several weeks' paid leave. The Progress Party believes that the current framework for maternity leave is good and that there is no socio-economic coverage for cost-intensive reforms in the birth grant scheme now. We believe that it would be better to return to a possible extension at a later stage. In the meantime, careful attention should be paid to the extent to which the withdrawal of parental leave is more equally distributed between mother and father. The rest we leave to the parents to decide for themselves, that is, the freedom of choice also in terms of who should have and should not have leave. In fact, the party of progress believes that each parent knows best what is most appropriate. We, like the Right, distance ourselves from SV's proposal for a third.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e766	I almost have to start the post with an answer to the representative Rafiq. The Socialist Left Party provides for a much greater freedom of choice for parents here than what the Right does. We believe that it is absolutely essential for an equal parent that mother and father have the opportunity to be home with children after birth. This has so far been an economic issue because Dad has not received compensation based on his own earnings. SV will also extend father's maternity leave by four weeks based on his own earnings. We propose this in our alternative budget, with introduction from 1 July 2005. There shall be no economic assessment on the basis of which mother or father should be able to take leave. This is an important step in the right direction towards an equal parenting and it is important for the child’s right to early association with two parents. SV also proposed to extend the parental quota by four weeks in the family message, and we also proposed, once again to the representative Rafiq, to issue a third of the leave after birth according to the Icelandic model, where one third are reserved for mother, one third are reserved for father, and one third can be used as the family wishes. We didn't propose the model. We proposed an investigation and refer in this setting to that investigation proposal. SV does not want the father’s right to a father’s quota to depend on the prenatal professional activity of the mother to be at least 50 pst. – it also does not apply to post-natal professional activity. We therefore propose the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Law on Social Security so that both parents are entitled to benefits at birth based on their own earnings, irrespective of the other’s professional activity before and after birth from 1 July 2005.’» In the event of an incursion, we have not come with «and after», so we are now rectifying it. I have noticed that the Ministry of Children and Family has sent out a hearing note with proposals to simplify the legislation on birth and adoption money. It is important that we now have a proper review of the entire legislation. This applies, for example: Those who give birth to premature infants, those who are students, those who give birth to more children. Many of these groups are coming out badly. There is no longer an auxiliary device in the municipalities like what you had before, for example. had housewives. It is also almost impossible to get home help for those who are currently giving birth to tremors. SV believes that when more children are born, father should be given the possibility of extended leave rights. We therefore propose the following proposals: ‘The government asks the government to determine how the benefit of birth money is for those who give birth to premature infants and for those who give birth to more children.’ We are also promoting a proposal to 'extend the right to maternity benefits for those who give birth to twins, triplets, etc.' in the revised budget for 2005’. There is a great burden of care to have more children at once, and these parents absolutely need the right to extended leave. It must apply to both mother and father. We are aware that the amendment we are dealing with today only applies to the right to compensation for pay under the father rate based on own earnings. However, we believe it is important to focus on the other biases of the law in terms of social security benefits at pregnancy and childbirth, as this is now proposed in a note that is out of consultation, simplified. We had thought that it would finally become a majority in order for Dad to be entitled to a father's allowance regardless of his mother's work relationship. Time is overdue in terms of giving this right, and it's disappointing that we couldn't adopt it here today. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e796	The representative of May Hansen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e799	The Center Party also gives its full support to the amendment of the law. Finally, it is agreed that the fathers who are currently entitled to a family allowance are entitled to compensation based on their own ignition. The centre party has pointed out this need in more terms. If this scheme is to function satisfactorily, the compensation for father’s pay must be based on his/her own wage formation. It is hoped that this will help Dad to take out more of the leave period that parents can freely share than has been the case up to now. I think it's likely to be important, when mom and dad are going to be able to figure out how to use the leave period, that it's now going to end with parents getting a total financial loss if mother, for example. has had 50–75 pst position. The centre part will underline that the family itself is the best place to make decisions about how to organise your daily life. Several parties have the right to an extension of the paper issue, and so does the Center Party. The debate has taken place and one has argued that an extended paper issue should be taken by the existing permit regime. It has also been argued that the share of parents themselves today must go to father. For example, we have SV's proposal for a third of the leave period. This does not support the Central Party. Today mother shall have nine weeks in connection with birth, and four weeks are set aside for father. The remaining time is up to mother or father to dispose of. According to the Central Party's view, an extension of the spring quota does not have to go beyond the existing scheme. The centre party has registered that birth grants can be financially unlucky for those who give birth prematurely, for students and for those who have more than one child. That is why we are in agreement with the SV on the proposal No. 1 and 2 to sort these out, and I have noticed that the case-speaker from the Christian People's Party is urging the government party to look at these proposals. In the case of proposal No: 3, from SV, the Central Party supports the intention of the proposal. SV would like to introduce this scheme from 1 July 2005, while the Central Party would like to return to this. That is why we are voting against proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e814	Politics is often about the small steps in the right direction. This case is an example of that. The left agrees with the majority, which says that it is a long-term goal that each parent is entitled to birth grant based on his own earnings. As usual, some opposition parties may overwhelm the Government, as they operate with money the majority cannot agree to grant. But the left is pleased with the steps that are being taken, and would like to join in on new ones. It's still going forward. It is positive that all parties are concerned with better equality and the rights and obligations of fathers towards their children. Creativity is also developing in the Left. Our Programme Committee has proposed replacing maternity leave with a flexible child leave, where parents can have a 15-month time account, not only in their first year of life, but up to the age of 16. Each parent must take at least three months, but otherwise one can freely dispose of the time, whether you want to be home full-time for a period, work part-time or have longer holidays while the children are young. Such a reform will increase freedom for families with young children. We would like to take part in the debate on the further steps towards increased equality and good care for the smallest children. The left will also increase the spring quota to the level of the mother quota in the next period, i.e. nine weeks based on own earnings. Today's decision is, as I said, a step in the right direction. It is an important measure to increase equality and increased contact between father and child. The left joins the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e825	I am pleased that the Committee supports the proposal that fathers be entitled to compensation based on their own earnings under the parental quota. It is gratifying to implement the first of the three proposals in the family communication on a more equal birth grant scheme. An equal birth grant scheme is important for gender equality with regard to the distribution of care and professional activity. The draft budget for 2005 provides for a new regime to apply to births and adoptions from 1 January 2005. Father's wage compensation under the father's quota should not be limited by his mother's share of employment before birth. The change can contribute to even more fathers than today's, because the family does not now want to lose financially to the fact that mother worked part-time in a 50-75 p.m. position before birth. The Committee has noted that the proposal does not have an impact on the conditions for entitlement to a feed quota. It will still be the case that the father's right to a father's allowance depends on the mother's work corresponding to at least half the position during the working hours. As was stressed in the family message, there is a need to work for a mother and father to be more equal in relation to the right to maternity benefits. Father's right is still in several ways dependent on mother's dispositions before or after birth. In the family message I pointed to that approx. 11,000 fathers who have earned a right today are completely without the possibility to withdraw a birth grant, either because their mother has not earned a right through work or because their mother is at home after birth. All fathers should in the long term be granted a four-week maternity leave based on their own generation and regardless of their mother’s dispositions. It is important that fathers take a greater share of the birth grant period. 15 pst. the number of fathers is higher than that of fathers today, and this should be much higher. Parents already have a wide range of opportunities to share the birth grant period between themselves, as others have pointed out. The ability to share is much greater than what is actually used. Experience has shown that earmarked allowances for father are the most effective means of increasing fathers’ income, not least to help limit employers. I have noticed that the majority will not extend the paper commission within today's order. I agree. I believe that the spring quota should be extended in the form of an extension of the total period of leave. Another solution would weaken parental freedom of choice and might be perceived as a restriction on established rights. The parent quota shall lapse if it is not used, which makes it suspicious to increase the quota in the first year of life of the child. It is also worth noting that the Icelandic scheme of one third to father, one third to mother and one third to distribution was introduced in the context of an extension of the overall period of leave. Changes that strengthen the rights of fathers are costly. The family message makes it clear that there is a need for priority in kindergarten. This limits the amount of bets that can be promoted in the area of birth money right now. However, I am working to strengthen the rights of fathers within these conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e850	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e853	The Labour Party shares the view of the Council of State that a third will not be the best in relation to the ability of families to use flexible leave in a good way. Nevertheless, it has been a very important goal for the Workers' Party to expand the part that father has, then through a total extension of the leave. I have recorded in many newspaper headlines that the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and her party have meant the same thing throughout this large-scale period, but during the period we have not received a single proposal to extend the leave by one single day. My question to the Council of State is: does she continue to have ambitions that the permit will be extended during this majority period, or does she consider it necessary to wait until the next majority period in order to implement what we have heard in the media for almost three years?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e860	That's about. one year since the family notification was dealt with in this cluster, where the majority joined these three remaining father-related maternity leave schemes. So we've said in the Sem statement that we have a sequence of this, which I also said something about in my post, that the babysitting is going to come first, and then we're going to look at extended arrangements. However, we have managed to take the step we are taking today. I have to be allowed to say that, after the papiermission scheme came in 1993, it was the Bondevik I government that made a general improvement in the scheme, that is, by giving independent earnings to birth funds for fathers. So it's the Bondevik II government that this year, in 2004, takes the step we're taking today, giving father compensation under the federal rate based on his own earnings. I'm just saying, what did the Workers' Party do in the years they were in position? At least they were unable to implement any of these.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e869	To clarify, we've proposed an extension of the total length of leave, and we've proposed an investigation of a third. What I want to ask the Council of State applies to two of the proposals from SV. One goes on to extend the right to birth grant for those who give birth to twins, triplets, etc. There are more people who do, because we have IVF in this country, which often makes you have more children at once. The second proposal is on how those who give birth prematurely, students etc. comes out in this context. I wonder if the Council of State will take this further into consideration when it comes to simplifying the system, and come back with a proposal for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e876	First, a little bit about SV's suggestions. This will reduce freedom of choice, there is no doubt about it. This could actually cause families to come out worse than today, because it should be approx. 15 weeks to mother, approx. 15 weeks to father and approx. 15 weeks of optional – and then I have included the weeks you want to expand with. That is, if Dad doesn't use the 15 weeks, the family is left with 30 weeks, which is a worse order than today, both in time and in economics. That's what makes me very disagree with the proposal from SV. The other thing that there are questions about here, I take with me as a wish from the committee. We've come a long way in simplifying the birth grant scheme, but I'm taking it with me anyway, and then we'll see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e883	I understand that the Council of State is very proud to have brought about the change that we are now adopting – and all credit for that, that is an important change. But when the history description is that here it's the Bondevik governments that's been at the head, I think she'll be happy that it's not part of these international studies on the level of knowledge in Norwegian history, language or mathematics. It was the Mannsrolle Committee under the direction of Jens Stoltenberg, an unfamiliar man here in the hall, who first proposed a paper commission. It was met with a certain head iron from the opposition. The then parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Kjell Magne Bondevik, said that he believed that the Mannsrollecommission was of little importance. Then it was Gro Harlem Brundtland who proposed the paper commission, the first in the world. My question is: does the Council of State, as an ambition, have the intention to expand the paper industry during this ageing period, as the Sem Declaration apparently went in for, or do we have to wait until the next period before it happens by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e890	My history was probably correct, because I wasn't talking about the introduction of the Dad quota, but about the two improvements: the one we're actually doing today, and the previous one, which also came while the Christian People's Party was in government. It is still true that the Workers' Party had the government power between Bondevik I and II, and then there was no improvement in the father's quota. When it comes to ambitions, I have ambitions all the time, much more than I can fulfill, unfortunately. It's because it costs a lot of money. A week extension of the paper commission will cost approx. 250 million. kr. The same thing will do to get all the fathers into the daddy's quota. I'm going to work for it, but I can't stand here and say what we can get to present in the next budget that this government is presenting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e897	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e902	It doesn't help to be big in words when you're very small in action – and that's what you can say in this case. The last section of Laila Bavøy is a confirmation of that, namely that the big grips actually cost money to carry out, and then it takes will to do it. Then, of course, you can be happy with all the five million plots taken along the way. But we have to be willing to take the big grips, and this government has not had the will to do so far. Big words in the family message, but so far no action. In connection with the debate that started after Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and I started the website «pappaperm.no», has among other things. The Council of State has been out saying that a third will turn out unsocial. But why would it look unsocial? Well, that's primarily because the Council of States has not managed to live up to its promises to achieve this cohesion. What has happened, and which is very pleasing, is that after this has come up as a big debate in society, there are three things that strike people as fundamentally unfair and as fundamental obstacles to the freedom of choice of families, if you want to make sure that both mother and father take responsibility for their kids. One thing is, and it wasn't done anything in this proposal that's presented here, that still has to work 50 pst. in order to enable him/her to take out the faecal release. It's fundamentally unfair. This is paper issue – but a leave that depends on Mom working 50 pst. before the baby is born. What is it, then? The second thing that is fundamentally unfair, and which, in my opinion, is insanely discriminatory in law, is what makes father rank as a secondary or secondary care provider. It's just that if your mom isn't in full-time work or in full-time studies, your dad gets his leave payments curtailed. What is it, then? The starting point is that if your mother is at home at all, her father is not close to babysitting at all. It is an old-fashioned and stunned and archaic view of a modern father’s role. I know that Laila Davøy often says that she disagrees that it is like this – and that's good and good, but when you can't do anything about it, it's still the vision that stays standing. The last is a change that I think there should be room for when you take the review that we're doing here now, and that's what the law says that if the woman, mother, chooses 80 pst. withdrawals, then father also has to select 80 pst. It should do something about it, just to reduce wages by 20 pst., is experienced by father in a lot of family relationships as a greater burden than if mother goes down in wages. Then I would like to welcome the debate and good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e917	It is not difficult to associate with the previous speaker's description of some injustices in relation to the opportunities of father and mother to take leave to care for a newborn child. These are changes that we have to look at and come back to. The paper commission has two intentions. One is to ensure that the child receives that care and the contact and connection to both parents that a child deserves and needs. The second is to ensure equality between mother and father in the care of children, that one tries from birth to facilitate the taking of an equivalent responsibility. But when said, the working party is probably different from SV at a significant point. We see that it is still such that a pregnancy and a birth are probably much more demanding for mother than for father. I guess that's still the way the obstetrician said to a very nervous father who walked in the hall and waited while he was born – it was before it became modern to enter the maternity ward: Relax, sir. Hansen, it's very rare it appeals to father something during birth. Clearly, there are very large individual differences in the need to have a leave after a maybe tough birth and a demanding pregnancy, and here families still have an opportunity to adapt it. This does not prevent a greater share of the leave from being given to a father. But it can be achieved by extending the total leave, so that dad gets at least three months that's earmarked for him. I think a month is good, but a month is still too small. Often, families use one month of paper magazine along with their mother’s vacation, and the whole family goes together. It is positive and certainly great for the family, but at the same time it is not enough to add habits and incorporate father's responsibility. Here I am talking – from experience – about being responsible for cooking, because the clothes are all right, so that waking up and laying takes place according to the well-known and accustomed patterns. I love that training and that experience. But at the same time, I think it's also very important, because what we see is that we're far too short in relation to equality in terms of responsibilities for children, and in terms of the amount of work at home. Then I think a three-month minimum paper issue will be what's needed. We can do that quickly. We can do it without taking off the leave that both can use, so we keep the flexibility that many families want.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e931	That's a great discussion. I think we all agree on the goals we want to achieve, and that we need to have more modern family policy arrangements than we have today. So it's quite funny that the SV in opposition always has a lot more money than anyone else, and can implement everything much faster than a government can often manage to do in position. I would also like to point out once again that for the first time, the Bondevik II administration sent out a family message, for approx. a year ago. There we invited the Storting to change these arrangements. So we had three steps to take. We take the one today, the next is to get everyone into the plan. The last big grip is expanding the paper commission. My party, the Christian People's Party, has wanted to extend it to a total of ten weeks. We're going to work for that. So the representative Heikki Holmås refers to the new website «pappaperm.no». That's a good idea. It's great to have a debate on the Internet as well. Modern forms of communication seem to me to be positive. However, what I hope – I haven’t been in and looked at this myself, but I’ll actually do that – is that the consequences of the proposal that SV is promoting have been taken into account there as well. The consequence of a lack of freedom of choice will be, or may be, that the family is left with approx. 30 weeks if Dad can't take the leave – 30 weeks, about 42 weeks today. It's a serious consequence, as I hope it's really well informed about on this website.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e940	Yes, I just have to take the word to say that it is offensive when the Council of State says that we have much more money in opposition. So in the children's and family's field, the government can afford an entire cash support scheme of NOK 4 billion. We can start to think about how many weeks of extra leave it would be possible to get for it, and we would soon figure out that there would be 16 extra weeks of leave. So this is going really well. But it's about how you want to introduce freedom of choice in this area, and it's about the will to withdraw. The debate is going, and I think what's about to happen is that more and more people are discovering all the injustices in this system. So it's exactly what Laila Davøy says, that in the cases where men refuse to take the leave, you will lose this. It is the experience from Iceland and the experience from Norway that we are based on when we are discussing family policy here. The experience from Iceland is that 85 pst. of the men who have the opportunity to take out a greater proportion of the paper issue. Not everyone takes out full three months, but quite a lot of people do. The experience from Norway is that 85 pst. of men withdraw the four-week leave. Then there's a part that doesn't, and in those cases, often the leave is transferred to the mother. We now see that the Council of State is about to change the legislation on this which offers less opportunities for transferring leave to mother. We'll have to have a discussion when the time comes, about exactly this. I assume that it is a goal for the whole of the Great Britain to ensure greater equality, where fathers come more on the job, where working life is facilitated for fathers to take out leave, and for fathers to have the opportunity – and choice – to take out leave. We see today that there are many fathers who say they would like to, but they do not dare because the workplace is slowing down. But the important thing here is that if we want major societal changes, we're going to have to take some big grip. The money is there if we want to spend it. I challenge the Workers' Party at that point. But that time comes when the harvest comes, if it becomes possible to get it. So we'll see how this works.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e951	I let myself provoke the representative from SV when he claims that these systems lead to injustice. I have to say that I am deeply disagreed with what the representative from SV here claims, that the Stortinget should go in and take care of the law, that is, that we should fall down in the form of law, how mother and father should dispose of the leave period. I think I'm unfair to parents and to the family's right and say the possibility of taking leave time as they think it suits their family. I want to give support to the Swedish Council of State Davøy when she says that it is the Bondevik I-government and the Bondevik II-government that have got some speed on these matters. I joined this Committee for the period 1993-1997. Then we were several parties that underlined in the setting how important it was for Dad to have his own right to set things straight. It is also true, as the Council of State says, that the impending government council of the Labour Party did nothing until the Bondevik I government had taken the initiative of the first'small steps', as was said by its representative on the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e958	When both cash support and maternity leave come up at the same time here, I have to state once again that from our side, from the Government side and from the Christian People's Party, this is about the freedom of choice for the families. Neither government nor big business should we go in and control the details to the extent of how families should handle themselves. They know for themselves what is best for their children and for their families, and there are many different reasons why a father can end up not being able to take out the paper issue. But otherwise, we agree on the goal: we agree that more people should do it. Today it's actually 89 pst. That takes out the paper issue, and a lot of people are going to take out more. Also in that part of the maternity leave you can share today, we see a gradual increase. In the last four years we've been mapping it, the proportion has increased from 10 to 15 pst. So I want to point out once again that in the case of Iceland, the third came through an extension. So that arrangement did not go at the expense of what you could share in, as is the case with SV's proposals here. There's a very big difference between that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e967	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 279]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e975	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e982	During the debate, Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e1558	There is a different proposal from the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The law of auditors shall be amended as follows:Article 5-6, fourth paragraph, new paragraph. 1 shall be replaced by the following:1. a clear statement as to whether, in the opinion of the auditor, the annual accounts give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions. If the accounting officer has made annual accounts in accordance with international accounting standards with adaptations to the EEA Agreement as provided for in Sections 3 to 9 of the Accounting Act, a clear indication shall be given as to whether, in the opinion of the statutory auditor, the annual accounts provide a comprehensive production.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e1622	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e1632	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e1639	During the debate Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for legislation whereby reimbursement to private laboratories and x-ray institutes is carried out through regional health establishments.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e1712	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e1722	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e1729	During the debate, Mr Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the need for support to child care for disabled lone dependants and disabled dependants to try and work.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e1981	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2037	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party want to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2113	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2143	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party want to go against No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2160	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2170	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2177	During the debate Ivar Kristiansen, on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, put forward the following proposals: «Agreements to the Act amending Law No 3 June 1983 40 on saltwater fishing, etc. 40 in the case of saltwater fishing, etc. Paragraph 46 is replaced by the following:§ 46 Control FeeThe Ministry may provide for inspection fees, including detailed rules on the obligation to pay a fee, the levy and the obligation to disclose information to the supplier and the recipient of the catch, where this determines the extent of the fee obligation. An alternative will be to vote between this proposal and that of the Committee, which is behind the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2217	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to oppose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2231	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2238	During the debate Ivar Kristiansen, on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘§ 5 is replaced by the following: no compensation shall be granted for damage to the root, ship and small boat and its components, aircraft, fishing gear, marine equipment for the production of fish, fish in bars, locks or ponds, antennas, signs, etc., equipment for the extraction of oil, gas or other natural bodies on the sea bed, cash and securities. Nor is it compensated for storm damage to the forest, unless otherwise specified by the King. However, in the cases referred to in the first sentence, the Board of Governors may compensate in whole or in part if the specific circumstances warrant it and there is no right to insure against such damages referred to in the first sentence of a general insurance scheme. If the statement referred to in Section 14 has been given, no compensation shall be made for damage to construction works listed after disclosure of the property, or for movable property located in the construction works, where the damage is of such nature as the declaration applies. Where such a statement is justified, no compensation for damage may be provided after a grant has been granted for removal based on the value of the entire property. The king may provide that no compensation shall be granted for certain types of construction works.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2370	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2380	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2387	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2449	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2462	It was protested over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2476	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2513	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2523	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2530	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 3, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2607	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2617	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14-lower.ana.ud1778e2628	There is no record. The President will, since this is the last odelsting meeting this year, benefit the need to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
