ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-02.ana.ud1722e177	In accordance with the Constitution, the King gives this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. The fight against international terrorism has been a major issue in 2004. In this work, the government has focused on a broad approach to the use of political, economic, legal and military instruments. The government has also been concerned that a person must focus his search for conditions that create a breeding ground for terrorism and that one in the fight against terrorism must ensure the care of human rights. The government has worked for NATO to play an important role in the fight against international terrorism and to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction. The NATO summit in Istanbul confirms that the security challenges and the fight against terrorism will continue to characterise the further developments in the alliance. NATO has as its main priority the achievement of stability in Afghanistan, a goal that will also be important to trust the alliance in the future. Norway's membership in NATO will still be central to taking care of our security and defence interests. The government has given development cooperation a high priority in line with the action plan on combating poverty in the south. In 2004, the aid is set at 0.94 pst. of expected national income. Special priority has been given to aid for education, health and HIV/AIDS. In April, the government presented a major communication on development policy. Furthermore, an action plan on agriculture has been presented in development policy and an updated and expanded action plan on debt cancellation. The organisation of Norwegian development cooperation has been modernised and streamlined, and a new management model has been introduced from 1 April this year. The government has led an active European policy to take care of Norwegian interests. Both the EU and the EEA were extended from 1 May 2004. Norway has committed itself to supporting the least prosperous EU countries with about two billion dollars a year until 2009, thus contributing to the economic development and rapid integration of the new Member States. The government has also focused on strengthening the political and economic seas between the new Member States and Norway. In the spring of 2004, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1546 confirming the end of the American led occupation and restoring full sovereignty for Iraq. The country is now scheduled to undergo a process which will end with the establishment of a democratic governing body during 2005. From the Norwegian side, considerable emphasis has been placed on the central role the United Nations should play in this process. Norway has channelled aid for reconstruction through multilateral funds managed by the United Nations and the World Bank. In addition, Norway has provided humanitarian assistance through the UN, the Red Cross system and Norwegian humanitarian organisations. The Norwegian engineering company of the international stabilisation force in Iraq completed its mission as planned in the summer of 2004. Norway is following up the NATO decision to support the training of Iraqi security forces in and outside Iraq. The government has placed great emphasis on actively contributing to various international crisis management operations. That is the background to the decision to increase Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan, inter alia by supporting the construction of the Afghan civil police and a regional reconstruction team. In addition, Norway has taken part in the NATO-led international security force, ISAF. The government has also provided extensive support to the transitional government and increased assistance to the longer-term reconstruction. At the same time, humanitarian aid is still being provided. The World Trade Organisation (WTO) General Council adopted on 31 July 2004 the framework for further negotiations between other agriculture and industrial products, including fish. The government will work actively to ensure important national interests in the further rounds of negotiations. The aim is to strengthen the international trading system and to ensure fairer trading conditions. In 2004, the government has prioritised the high follow-up to the UN Summit in Johannesburg on Sustainable Development and has also actively worked internationally to meet the UN’s Millennium Goals. The Norwegian Presidency of the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development led to the revitalisation of the Commission. The government has actively committed itself to the emission of TC-99 from Sellafield. British government has granted permission for a new purification method that will reduce emissions by more than 99 pst. The economic policy of the Government is based on the guidelines for a gradual and permanent phase-in of oil revenues in the economy. At the same time, economic policy must lead to stable development of production and employment. In line with this, the Government presented in May a revised budget for 2004. The treatment in Stortinget resulted in an increase in the use of oil revenues of 700 million. kronor compared to that provided by the Government. The interest rate on the Board of Directors of Norway Bank is pr. September 1, 2004 1,75 p.m. That's 1.25 pst. lower than at the same time last year. Since December 2002, interest rates have been reduced 10 times. The krone course has gone down monthly for the past six and a half years. Measured at the effective exchange rate in industry was the krona in September 11 p.m. weaker than in December 2002. Thus, the strength of the exchange rate that took place in 2002 has been reversed. There are signs of improvement in the labour market. After a fall in the first half of 2003, employment remained relatively stable up to the first quarter of 2003 and has increased somewhat since then. The number of unemployed has fallen since last summer. By the end of August, 97 900 people were registered entirely unemployed, which is 3,900 fewer than at the same time last year. Participation in the labour market in Norway is among the highest in the world. Last year was 72.9 pst. of the population aged 16 to 74 at work or seeking work. However, participation in the labour market in the second quarter of this year was slightly lower than in the same quarter of 2003. In March, the government presented a big message with proposals for tax reform. The reform will provide a better and fairer tax system that will contribute to increased value creation. In June 2004, the Grand Prix was presented by the Government for further modernisation of the defence in the period 2005-2008. New and demanding modernisation targets have been set, inter alia, to ensure that the transfer of resources from support activities to operational activities will continue. The government has issued a big message of freedom of speech. The government inter alia intervened in order to lift the ban on political advertising on television, limit criminal liability for violations of honour and strengthen freedom of expression to those adding. The government also believed that the principle of transparency should be enshrined in the constitution. The government has provided a major communication on housing policy, which was discussed by the Stortinget in June 2004. This suggests that one in the future housing policy will focus on measures to provide a well-functioning housing market, reduced construction costs, more housing for disadvantaged people and more accessible and environmentally friendly housing. The house bank shall still be a bank for the broad groups to be established in the housing market. The government has presented a plan for a holistic innovation policy, with the goal of Norway being one of the most innovative countries in the world. In the spring of 2004, the government presented the National Transport Plan 2006–2015. Main political priorities are safer road traffic, more environmentally friendly urban transport, easier access in and between regions, a more efficient transport system and a transport system accessible to all. The government has followed up the nursery agreement in Stortinget. Regulations on maximum rates of parental and nursing care were introduced on 1 May 2004. In 2003, new places were created for 6,910 children, and 10,000 more children were given a full-time job. The government has submitted a big message about the basic training, and the Size has joined the content of this message. As part of the follow-up to the message, a strategy for the development of competences will be developed in cooperation with the central federation of other municipalities. The UN plays a central role in peace, security and development and is a cornerstone of Norwegian foreign policy. The defense continues to participate with observers and staff personnel in a number of UN operations worldwide. NATO has been expanded by seven new Member States, and Norway has an active part in the surveillance of airspace above the Baltic States as of April 2004. The government has been busy developing cooperation between the EU and NATO. The government has therefore seen it as positive that the EU assumes greater responsibility for crisis management in Europe. Norway took part in the first EU military operation in Macedonia in 2003. The government has also continued its work on stability and reforms in the Western Balkans and has supported the further integration of the countries in the region into Euro-Atlantic cooperation. Governments have also increased efforts in Moldova, the Caucasus and Central Asia. The government has worked to raise issues related to the environment and sustainable use of resources in the north, with greater international attention. Norway has been one of the drivers of nuclear security cooperation with Russia. The extensive cooperation with Russia has also been strengthened through the Norwegian Presidency of the Barents Council. The government has followed up on the strong commitment to peace and reconciliation. In Sri Lanka, Norway has been particularly active in maintaining its armaments and helping parties to find a basis for resuming formal negotiations. In the Philippines, Norway has facilitated negotiations between the Government and the Communist movement in the country. Norway has also carried out the active work for peace and conflict resolution in Africa, where Sudan and the Horn of Africa have our particular central focus. Norway's commitment to a lasting and peaceful solution to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians has continued. It has been stressed that both parties must contribute to the work of the so-called Roadmap for Peace. The government has continued its efforts to reform the Palestinian self-government powers and to mobilise international budget support. Through Schengen cooperation, Norway is involved in parts of EU cooperation in the field of justice, and it has made it possible to meet common challenges related to migration control, border control and various forms of cross-border crime, including terrorism. On 13 May 2004, Norway took over the Presidency of the Council of Europe. The government has set itself the goal of the six-month Presidency period to improve the Council of Europe's ability to take on important tasks of promoting democracy, respect for human rights, good governance and conflict prevention. It has been particularly important to strengthen and streamline the Court of Human Rights in the Council of Europe. The development of an international programme to strengthen Norway’s foreign reputation has been central to the Government in the planning of the 2005 marker of the Union’s resolution between Norway and Sweden. By creating the Norway portal, which is the home page of the Internet's foreign stations, the Government has made information about Norway available in 18 languages. Norway extended on 1 January the territorial sea from 4 to 12 nautical miles. At the same time, an adjacent zone of 12 nautical miles outside the territorial sea was created for control purposes. It has given Norway one of the most modern regimes in the world for coastal waters and has improved the ability of government to meet current environmental challenges. The Nordic countries have identified a new environmental action programme for the period 2005-2008. The programme places particular emphasis on the Nordic countries’ international work in the field of the environment. Two global conventions prohibiting and regulating trade in health and environmental hazardous chemicals, the Stockholm Convention and the Rotterdam Convention have entered into force in 2004. The government has strengthened Norwegian participation in international research cooperation through the EU Framework Programme for Research and Development, including through specific incentives. In August 2004, the Government presented the report ‘The EU’s Lisbon Strategy in a Norwegian perspective’. The Lisbon Strategy aims to make the EU the most competitive economy in the world by 2010. Gross domestic product for mainland Norway increased by only 0,6 pst. [[value creation]] from 2002 to 2003 according to the preliminary national accounts figures. However, growth rates in the Norwegian economy are clearly increasing over the year, and Norway is now experiencing a new economic upturn. The recovery continued in the second quarter of 2004, and the statistics after the second quarter also support the upward impression. Even in the international economy, the economic recovery appeared to be well under way after growth rose towards the end of 2003. At the end of 2003, the state accounts show that the value of the State Petroleum Fund is $847 billion. The market value of the fund has increased to $942.4 billion until the end of the second quarter of 2004. Of these, 51.7 billion were transferred to the fund. The government will introduce ethical guidelines for the management of the State Petroleum Fund as addressed in the revised national budget for 2004. The index of consumer prices increased by 2.5 pst. in 2003. The price growth excluding energy and adjusted for tax changes was 1.1 pst. In the first eight months, consumer prices were 0.1 percentage points higher than in the same period last year, while the non-energy index and adjusted for tax changes increased by 0.2 percentage points. The operating balance vis-à-vis the rest of the world showed a surplus of $105.2 billion in the first half of the year, about $9 billion higher than in the same period last year. Norway's net claims on the rest of the world increased by about $12 billion in the first half of this year. In 2003, net oil, gas and NGL production in Norway amounted to 262.2 million. Sm3 oil equivalents [[e.g.]] The value of oil and gas exports was $300 billion in 2003. It is slightly higher than in 2002. The net cash flow to the state from the petroleum industry last year was NOK 174 billion. In 2003, the average oil price was about USD 29 per barrel, which is the highest price level since the first half of the 1980s. Between other wars in Iraq, OPEC’s regulation of oil production and strong increases in demand towards the end of the year explain the high price level. In 2004, the oil price is USD 30–45 per barrel. In May this year, the government announced a big deal about the petroleum industry. The message addresses challenges and measures related to ensuring long-term value creation on Norwegian continental shelf. In the Storing Message, the Government Decision on whole-year petroleum activity in the Lofoten-Barents Sea region was submitted. The decision did not open for further petroleum activity in Northern Ireland VI now. A closer assessment of this issue will take place when the complete Barents Sea Management Plan is in place. For the Barents Sea, it was agreed to open further all-year petroleum operations in the areas south of the Barents Sea that are already open, with certain exceptions. During the processing of this message in Storting, a multiple of its members joined the Government Decision. In the pre-defined area in 2003, 19 extraction rights were allocated to 13 companies. In 2004, 16 extraction rights were granted to 16 companies in the 18th concession round. In July 2004, the country completed a sale of approximately 117 million. Axles in Statoil ASA. Of this sale, 100 million was. axes located with Norwegian and international institutional investors and 17 million. axles were sold to private individuals in Norway and the EEA territory. After the sale, the country owned 76,3 pst. of the axe of Statoil ASA. In December 2003, the government presented a major communication on security of electricity supply, which was discussed by the Stortinget in May 2004. The message draws up a strategy for securing energy supply. The electricity supply in 2003 was marked by the failure of the Norwegian and Swedish water storage plants in the autumn of 2002, and the electricity prices were higher than those prevailing in recent years. Both the production and consumption of electricity in 2003 were lower than the average in recent years. The total electricity production was 107 TWh, while the electricity consumption was 115 TWh. In the last year, a concession has been granted for hydropower projects with an average annual production equivalent to about 0.5 TWh. Enova, who is responsible for the country’s efforts to convert energy use and production, concluded contracts in 2003 with a total contractual energy performance of about 1.8 TWh. In August of this year, the Government presented a new gas message for the Storting. The message includes the possibility of increasing the domestic use of gas and the framework for the creation of a renewable electricity certificate market. The government made a roll-out proposal to supplement the Protection Plan for Watercourses in June 2004. In the proposal, the Government proposes to protect additional 52 watercourses against power expansion, corresponding to an expansion potential of approximately 7.3 TWh per. years. With the Government's proposal, the comprehensive watercourse protection plan will cover more than 390 watercourses with a power potential of about 43.5 TWh per year. The construction of new frigates is the largest investment project in Defence for the time being, and the first frigate of the Fridtjof Nansen class was in line with the plan seagoing in Spain in May this year. With effect from 1 January 2004, the new institution Innovation Norway was created, based on the tools of the former State Food and Rural Development Fund, the Norwegian Export Council, the Norwegian Tourist Council and the State Guidance Office for Inventors. In 2003, 3524 project applications with a total budget of SEK 5.6 billion were approved under the SkattenFUNN scheme. The tax deduction for the projects is estimated at 1 659 million. $1,000, which is about $1 billion more than the year before. As part of the follow-up to the Governmental Plan for a Healthy Innovation Policy, the Government presented a strategy plan for entrepreneurship in education in May 2004. The government has given priority to simplifying and facilitating business. A state report for a simpler Norway, presented in November 2003, showed good progress for the vast majority of interventions. As a contribution to reducing the form field, the Government has focused on coordinating electronic reporting. The ALTIN solution was put into operation in the spring of 2004. The government follows up on eNorreg in 2005 and has submitted a new state report on the development of the information society. Particular attention will be paid to following up the work of IT in the public sector. The government, in cooperation with market players, has undertaken to facilitate the general use of electronic signatures. In April 2004, the Government issued a major report on shipping. About 150,000 people are employed in the tourism industries, and the industry accounts for about 4.4 pst. GDP. In 2003, it was 23.5 million. the guest house day of the commercial overnight stays, which was a decrease of 2 pst. in relation to the previous year. The first five months of 2004 showed an increase in hotel nights of 4 pst. in relation to the corresponding period in 2003. The government has put forward a proposition that deals with the strategy, capitalisation and organisation of Statkraft. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade took over the management of the shareholders of the new company DnB NOR, which is owned by the State, on 30 March 2004. The State sold around 171 million in March 2004. Telenor axles for a combined value of over 8.3 billion dollars. The state now owns 53.1 pst. by the axes of Telenor ASA and the liquidity of the share has increased. In 2003, 280 people were killed in road traffic. There are 30 fewer deaths than in 2002. In 2003, 5 people were killed in railway and metro accidents and 4 people in aviation accidents. In the long-term hedge work in all transport sectors, the government gives evidence that accidents will not be fatal or life-threatening. In 2003 automatic traffic control was in operation in all counties, with more than 280 photoboxes on a road section of more than 1100 km. [[ATK]] In order to improve road safety, a driver card point loading system was introduced from 1 January 2004. New regulations for driving licences and driver training were introduced on 1 March 2004. Through a new reward scheme, the government has allocated 75 million. costs of operating and investing in local public transport in a larger urban area. The funds go to measures for the transfer of traffic from passenger car to bus and rail. Both passenger and freight traffic by train is for the first time in several years in a positive development. In particular, rail freight traffic has had a marked increase, which is positive for the environment and road safety. The new railway emergency communication security system GSM-R has been developed and put into service for the first time in Norway on the Bodø-Rognan route. In 2004 GSM-R will be developed on Rørosbanen, Raumabanen and the rest of the Nordlandsbanen. Measures to combat noise along the road and rail networks have been implemented. The noise limits laid down in the pollution legislation will mainly be reached in 2004. The expert group set up by the Ministry of Transport to assess the potential and measures for zero-emission technologies in the transport sector presented a report in May 2004. In order to improve the provision of services in the taxi industry, a suggestion has been made that public authorities should no longer regulate the number of taxi licenses. Proposals have been made to replace the current needs test by a qualification-based system. In order to ensure that the purchase of transport services on the Bergen–Kirkenes coastline is not unnecessarily expensive, the route is available for the period 2005–2012. The government has sent a proposal to cancel the one-stop shop for Post Norway AS from 1 January 2007. The efficiencies and reorganisation of the state road system are being implemented as foreseen. It is expected that monthly financial gains will benefit road users. Avinor AS has begun a major shift with a view to reducing operating costs. The conversion will improve the company’s ability to further develop the aerodrome network in all parts of the country. The ownership of Flytoget AS was transferred on 1 July 2004 from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Air traffic measured in the number of passengers arriving and travelling over Norwegian Airports showed an increase of 2,4 pst in 2003. compared with 2002. In the first half of 2004, air traffic has increased further. An agricultural agreement has been negotiated between the State, Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Farmers' Association and a reindeer management agreement between the State and the Norwegian Reinbrutsamers Landsforbund. The government submitted its own propositions for the two agreements that were agreed upon in the Storting. Food surveillance was established on 1 January 2004. It shall be responsible for following the food throughout the production chain from inputs to final food. The food management reform is based on modernised legislation and an effective organisation that takes care of the whole chain. A comprehensive simplification and decentralisation process has been carried out linked to agricultural and forestry support schemes. Multiple add-on schemes have been merged, and the decision-making power of the funds has been transferred from the state to the municipalities. A major strategic effort has been undertaken for the State Forest SF. In the future, the enterprise will use its land more actively for important societal plots such as forest protection, outdoor purposes and local food development. The new concession law took effect on 1 January 2004. In the new law, the area limit for the purchase of property with a house is raised to 100 pieces when no more than 20 pieces of it are full-grown land. Furthermore, the price control is removed for the property it carries people who are sold for $750,000 or less. Guaranteed fishing quotas for cod have been introduced for the entire coastal fleet. This makes it possible to adapt to own operating patterns, reduce capping and increase the emphasis on quality. Work on improving the operating conditions of the fishing fleet has continued to improve the profitability of the vessel and provide a basis for renewal. Unit and structural quota schemes have been put in place for all vessels above 15 metres. Norway and the EU continue their efforts to improve the catch pattern for bottom fish in the North Sea. Protective measures have been taken to increase the population of Norwegian coastal cod. At the turn of the year 2003/2004, 50 new concessions were granted for salmon and aure farming. In the spring of 2004, concessions for pectinidae and bumble beets were first issued under the new Law on the Law of the Sea. A 20-bit limit was set for each seabed species. As part of the work on a more efficient and simplified form of control in the farming industry, an internal control requirement complying with the aquaculture legislation was laid down in March 2004. The government has simplified the current rules for the transfer of concessions to the breeding of edible fish of salmon and aure, which inter alia means that it is opened for movement across municipal boundaries. In 2003, Norway exported fish and fish products for approximately $26.3 billion, a decrease of $2.4 billion compared to the previous year. The reduction is due to a decrease in the price of some fish species. The Marine Protection Plan Advisory Committee delivered its opinion in June 2004. Conditions relating to fish health, fishing welfare and safety and quality at sea food have gained increasing attention in international maritime food trade. Work in this area has therefore been intensified. As a basis for the Barents Sea Management Plan, the consequences of fishing activity and ship traffic have been addressed. The reports were sent on a wide-ranging basis in June 2004. The government has continued and strengthened its efforts at marine research. Particular efforts are being made to identify and realise the synergies between agricultural research and marine research. The Blue-Green Food Alliance project has been launched to address different models of research organisation in these sectors. The government is actively working to strengthen maritime safety. A state towing boat stand has been created for North Norway, and sailing lodges have been introduced for ships with dangerous and impure cargo on the most exposed areas outside Finnmark. The dialogue with the Russian Ministry of Transport on the further development of cooperation in the field of maritime safety and oil protection continued in 2004. The design of a traffic centre for North Norway in Vardø has been started. The decontamination of oil pollution following the tragic Rocknes accident outside Bergen in the winter of 2004 ended in the summer of 2004. An evaluation of the crash has been performed. The size decided on a 50 million frame. 2004 financial aid for fisheries following a breach of the negotiations between the State and the Norwegian Fisheries Act. In line with the decisions taken in June 2004, the main agreements for the fisheries industry between the State and the Norwegian Fisheries Team were terminated with effect from 1 January 2005. In the LO/NHO range, which is largely a pattern for the others given, general supplements were given and in some areas low pay supplements were provided. The authorities in the country and the municipalities are conducted as key negotiations, and the parties were merged after mediation. In the discussions on pension regulation, the state, the Norwegian Pensioners' Association and the Norwegian Landsorganisation of the regulation of the basic amount of the population’s income was settled as of 1 May 2004. The Joint Organisation of disabled persons chose not to accede to the Agreement. The new Competition Act took effect on 1 May 2004. The law prohibits anti-competitive acts and the obligation to notify mergers and tighten sanctions. New rules opening up competition in the municipal pension market took effect on 1 January 2004. Law on the aggregation of the insurance fund to the savings and commercial banks took effect on 1 July 2004. The government has proposed new law on accounting and legislative proposals on the introduction of international accounting standards. The government has proposed new legislation on life insurance business based on a new profit-sharing principle. Following suggestions from the Government, Stortinget has adopted a new Financial Assurance Act. Law implements EEA rules aimed at strengthening the position of financial creditors. The Government has decided that there should be a central guide to quarantine and a case-by-case ban for officials and officials entering a new post outside the State. The aim of the guidelines is to prevent private operators from accessing sensitive and strategically important information on state-owned activities. The government has agreed on a target that, in five percent of all state new additions over the next two years, there should be people with reduced function. From 1 January 2004, the Consultant has become a wholly owned State limited liability company. In October 2003, a selection was selected to assess, inter alia, the funding of the political parties and the activities of elected groups. The government has agreed that pioneer divers will receive upliftment and financial compensation. In December 2003, the government presented the main message ‘A well-functioning labour market’. The story discussed the message and joined it in the spring of 2004. The government has followed up the declaration of the parties to continue on a more inclusive working life. through new health notification rules. As part of the further work on the agreements, the parties will increase their efforts to combat bullying in the labour market. The social partners' Labour Law Committee presented its statement in February of this year, and the position has been on a large-scale hearing. The government has made proposals for the first part of a new penal code. The proposal provides for a strict response to those who commit serious or widespread crime. At the same time, a humane and flexible prosecution will be continued. The government has presented an action plan against the election in close relation for the period 2004–2006. The government has presented an action plan against financial crime. The Government has created the ‘Political Foreign Unit’, a new national unit in the police department to improve the efficiency of the work on asylum and foreign affairs. The work on police reform has continued. The government has sent out to hear suggestions on how the police can get better methods of preventing crime. The government has named a selection to evaluate changes in rules on DNA profiles for use in criminal matters. The decision has been given by the Government to strengthen the rights of parents of children who have died as a result of criminal offences. The criminal procedural position of insults and relatives should be strengthened further, and the Government has therefore reduced a selection to propose changes to the law. The government has provided a major message on social security and civil-military cooperation. The message deals with total defence in the light of changes in the threat image and the modernisation of the defence, and provides an overview of security measures in different sectors of society. Following a proposal from the Government, the Stortinget has decided to reorganise civil justice on the ground and that uncontested claims may be enforced without the plaintiff first having to bring the action before the courts. The size has confirmed changes in the land fasteners, including the redemption of fasteners and the regulation of the fasteners’ charge. The size has established rules that open up testing schemes with injection rooms for drug addicts. In order to strengthen Svalbard’s rescue preparedness, a new contract was concluded for the lease of helicopter service on the island group in force from 1 April 2004. The agreement covers two helicopters with advanced life-saving equipment. The government has provided a big message on compensation schemes for children of war and compensation schemes for the Roma/taters and older Samaritans and women who have not received the schooling they have been entitled to. After proposals from the Government, the Storting created the Roman people's fund, which is a collective substitute for the victims of the attacks on the Roman people. A motion for a resolution has been put forward to give immigrants the right and duty to Norwegian education and social skills. The law on the introduction of new immigrants became a mandatory scheme for municipalities from 1 September 2004. The aim of the laws is to make it easier for new immigrants to participate in professional and social life. The government has implemented a number of measures to reduce the number of asylum seekers and to streamline the treatment of foreign affairs. Through a cooperation project, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Federation of Municipalities and Local Authorities have invited all municipalities in the country to assess whether their municipal borders are appropriate to future challenges. County officials have been given a more active role in stimulating conversion and modernisation in municipalities. As of January 2004, a number of attempts have been made to differentiate municipal tasks and to experiment with a single population. The government announced in March 2004 the local democracy commission. The Commission shall find explanations on why local democracy appears to be weak and point to measures that may strengthen it. The impact selection delivered a report in January 2004. The selection has analysed the impact of state action in the broad sense of regional development and regional policy objectives. The government has provided a major communication on the action zones in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, which was discussed in the United Kingdom in May 2004. It is the message's response to forward the action zone. In February 2004, the government reduced a selection to look at the EEA Agreement and ESA guidelines for national instruments of regional and regional policy. As part of making the planning and building laws simpler, from 1 July 2004, there are rules that require municipalities to pay back the building tax if they do not keep the deadline of 12 weeks for the handling of construction products. A deal has been reached with the process industry to secure monthly greenhouse gas emission reductions from the Norwegian industry. Part of the emission reductions shall take place within a national allowance system from 2005. The government has put in place a reimbursement scheme linked to the levy on HFC and PFC strong greenhouse gases. The system will collectively reduce the use of these gases and stimulate collection for recycling and destruction. The government has created national parks in Junkerdalen, Dovre and Skarvan and Roltdalen. There are 19 new landscaping areas, 55 new nature reserves, 13 new bird satisfaction areas, one plant conservation area and 8 biotopes. In addition, 26 former protected areas have been extended, of which 3 are national parks. 23 new open air areas are secured, of which 18 are beach areas. The Government has arranged for national parks to provide a greater basis for value creation by lifting the general ban on commercial tourism in the Saltfjellet/Svartisen National Parks, Reisa and Jotunheimen National Park Protection Statutes. Cooperation has been established with the Norwegian Forest Organisation on voluntary forest protection. The request from Norway to UNESCO to list the Vega Islands on the World Heritage List of Presidents is followed. The Storting message on cultural memory was announced in 2004. This message will be submitted in spring 2005. The story has dealt with the message «Catch in Norwegian nature». It provides for the management of regional wild game regions with their own names, clear national targets for the population, better coordination of agricultural policy and environmental policy instruments and a new compensation system for domestic animals and domestic animals. In order to strengthen the clean-up work in contaminated seabeds, a broad set of national Councils for impure sediments has been set up. As a result of a change in waste definitions in pollution laws, businesses have been given responsibility for managing all their own waste. The new law on the right to environmental information took effect on 1 January 2004. From the same point in time, the Government brings down a complaint body to deal with complaints about refusal of access by private companies. Efforts to combat bullying in kindergartens, schools and recreational settings have been reinforced by the work on the «Manifesto against bullying», and the work must be continued. The effort will be evaluated, and local projects will show clear positive effects. Action against child pornography and other undesirable content on the Internet has been extensive, including through the action plan ‘Children, young people and the Internet’ and international cooperation. Norway’s follow-up report to the UN Special Session on Children was transmitted to the UN in February 2004. On 1 January 2004, the State authorities assumed responsibility for the protection of the family and for the tasks of child protection for which the county councils were previously responsible. This reform was part of the process of strengthening the professional development of service provision, improving economic governance of the enterprise, improving cooperation between levels of government and ensuring increased professional support for municipalities. In June, the government presented an odelstingsproposition to the Stortinget, proposing that joint-owners with common children should automatically have joint parental responsibility when the father is recognised and parents have signed a joint-owner’s statement. With effect from 1 October 2003, the Government introduced a new contribution legislation. Following the new legislation, a starting point shall be the cost of supporting the child, which shall be allocated between parents in relation to their income. It will also take into account the degree of involvement of the contributor with the child and the ability to contribute to the contributor. The ban on smoking in service locations took effect on 1 June 2004. Storting has adopted a new law on food production and food security. The new law regulates all aspects of the production, processing and distribution of inputs and food, including drinking water, all uses of inputs and all aspects of plant and animal health. From 1 November 2003, it was allowed to sell certain non-pharmacologic prescription-free medicines, which have made it easier to obtain these medicines. A national Register of Medicinal Products was established in January 2004. In order to strengthen preparedness for world-wide influenza epidemics, it has been agreed to establish a stockpile of anti-influenza medicinal products. Furthermore, a guarantee scheme for the supply of vaccines is to be agreed. The Roadmap for Mental Health 1999–2006 has been followed up in line with the intentions of the Stortinget. [[2008]] The size has definite changes in patient rights laws that give patients the right to treatment privately or abroad when the right to treatment within a fixed time limit is not met. In addition, the right to choose a hospital is extended. It is increasingly shorter waiting times and fewer waiting times at hospitals. The waiting time for those who have received treatment or disposal has been reduced by 14 pst. from 1st tertiary 2003 to 1st tertiary 2004. The National Knowledge Centre on Selected and Traumatic Stress was created in 2004 to increase the knowledge and competence of all parts of the auxiliaries to deal with outlaws and other traumatised groups. Refugees are a specific target group for the increased effort. In order to ensure better protection for girls who may be exposed to genital mutilation, the Stortinget has made changes to the gender mutilation law. The quality report of the municipal care services has been followed up by an obligatory cooperation with the local authorities’ Central Association. A better harmonised legal framework for municipal health and social services is under way, and proposals from the Government to simpler and more equitable user payment and funding schemes have been being heard. The government has provided a breakdown of the drug situation and measures to prevent and treat drug problems. The government has seen the Russian reform in line with Stortingen's intentions. The government has proposed revision of the alcohol laws. In 2004, the follow-up to the action plan on poverty included, inter alia, a further strengthening of labour law measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and immigrants and increased efforts to provide everyone with a place to live. The Pensions Commission presented its report in January 2004, and the report was being heard. The selection that has provided various organisational solutions for the coordination of the Aetate, Social Security and Social Services provided a report in June this year. The national quality assessment system of initial training is in place. About 32,000 teachers have completed or are continuing training in ICT pedagogical use. The national project ‘Teacher ICT’ is central to this initiative, while internal approaches at schools show strong growth. The evaluation shows that ‘Teacher ICT’ has led to increased ICT skills among teachers and to a positive attitude towards the use of ICT in education and training. The government has followed up the publication of joint legislation on higher education, and there is an odelsting proposal with proposals for new laws with a high level of equality between state and public universities. The government has named a selection to review the University Museum's activities. From the autumn of 2004, a new National Commission for UNESCO has been appointed for a period of four years. With effect from 15 June 2004, the Directorate of Education was created and in action as an important tool in national education policy. In autumn 2003, the government presented a major message on the modernisation of Lånekassa. From the academic year 2004/2005, changes in funding schemes have been introduced through the Loan Fund Fund for students abroad. The aim of the changes is to support the free choice of students in foreign education, while at the same time wanting to give more emphasis to quality, greater geographical distribution of Norwegian students abroad and increased recruitment of students to non-English-speaking countries. The Action Plan for the Reform of Competence has been summarised. The report shows that the planned actions have been largely implemented and that a number of good schemes have been put in place to make it easier for adults to participate in training and skills development. The government has continued to work in the Forum on Competence and Working Life as a meeting place for the Governing Board, the social partners and educational institutions. In order to escalate the Norwegian research effort, particularly in the field of petroleum research, the capital of the Swedish Research and Innovation Fund has increased by SEK 1 billion to SEK 32.8 billion in 2004. Norway’s research council has carried out a major reorganisation from the autumn of 2003, including: with a view to becoming a more open arena for the users. The airport service, previously fully operated by the Meteorological Institute, has been reorganised from 1 January 2004. The tasks have been partially carried out by Avinor AS. The conclusion of the Norwegian Church is stable in terms of membership and ecclesiastical acts. Threat training reform is under way. New service arrangements have been put in place for performers and pastors as a basis for the management and organisational development of the services. A wide political platform for the desire for an active cultural policy in the years to come has been created during the process of the Storting of the Government's Cultural Message. In September, H.M. Kong Harald laid the foundation for the new opera house in Bjørvika. In April, the foundation of a new theatre building for the Hålogaland Theatre in Tromsø was laid down. An agreement has been reached on new premises for the State Archives in Trondheim as a follow-up to the wishes of Stortinget to develop a centre for archives, libraries and museums in Trondheim. The new National Library of Oslo security magazine was completed in the summer of 2004 and the rehabilitating of the National Library building is under way. The EU Culture Council has pointed out Stavanger and its neighbourhood to the European Capital of Culture in 2008. An odelstningsproposition has been presented with proposals for changes in cultural heritage and the Svalbard Environmental Protection Act. It shall provide a basis for ratifying the UNESCO Convention on the Illicit Import and Export of Cultural Items. H.M. The King has, with effect from 1 January 2004, declared his right to dispose of large parts of Bygdø Kongsgård. The Norwegian Folkemuseum has taken over administrative responsibilities with a view to developing the area into a modern and holistic public facility, such as: shall communicate historical agriculture. A major communication on the financial framework for film production has been submitted. An odelstningsproposition has been presented with proposals to change the rules on ownership in the day-to-day press and broadcasting. There are significant changes in the rules on advertising interruptions and the identification of sponsors in broadcasting. The statutes of the NRK have been changed. These changes define the NRK's public broadcasting mission. For 2004, there are distributed funds from the surplus in Norwegian Typing AS for cultural purposes of 180 million. crowns and for sporting purposes of 1200 million. krones. Of the distribution for sporting purposes, 679 million. SEK 340 million for sports facilities. SEK 120 million for the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee. SEK for direct contributions to work for children and young people in local teams and associations and SEK 61 million. crowns for other sporting purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-02.ana.ud1722e601	received on behalf of Stortinget the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness! That's 149. Storting, which your Majesty has opened up today, goes to his responsible work at a time when reports of brutal acts of terrorism characterize the media image. Although the contrast to our own everyday life becomes almost unreal, the fight against terror affects us all, both as fellow humans and as decision-makers. When terrorists set aside all fundamental human rights and the rule of law, our answer must be that we are consistently upholding precisely these rights and principles. The despair and shock of the moment must not lead us to lose faith in the individual's rights. Only in this way can we in the long run protect the international legal order and respect for human rights. As demonstrated by the census, Norway will continue to play an active role in the fight against international terrorism and support the UN as the main player in global peace, security and development work. Terrorism must be met with action by the international community. Action in this context is not just the immediate orderly or humanitarian effort. Action is also long-term and patient cooperation for peace and the reconciliation of differences between the world's peoples which must take place at the same time as we demonstrate our commitment to the criminal acts of terrorists. Also here at home, there are challenges to address, and the census shows that the government is working on several issues of great fundamental interest. The commitment to mental health shall be stepped up. Many feel insecure when we experience serious crime committed by people in a mental imbalance. It can rightly be argued that we have not done enough to meet the need for services in the field of mental health protection and that there is still a need for high levels of effort in this area. The further development of labour and welfare management requires that account be taken of both recipients of public services and those performing them. The revision of our pension system affects the very foundation of the welfare state, and a pension reform will have consequences for generations to come. The fact that a flashback on the power investigation coincides with the preparations for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Union resolution gives an interesting historical perspective on a debate that is highly relevant to the future of the People's Government. Several issues relating to economic development, regional policy, business and employment will give the Storting the opportunity to discuss the conditions of work and residence in our communities. We will also continue to deal with the new law on justice and the management of basic and natural resources in Finland, which places great emphasis on our obligations under international law. The Government is also working on proposals for new disclosure laws, the objective of which is to extend transparency. The size attempt to provide the best possible dissemination of information where transparency about matters and the political processes are at the heart of the process. The size is no club for particularly interested. As the country's top elected body, we make decisions that mean a lot to people's everyday lives. We want to disseminate this by giving an objective picture of the political processes and decisions. By showing the political processes as they really do – as quickly and as comprehensively as possible – we hope to inspire increased political commitment. Youth is an important target group for information work. In 2005, the Stortinget will have a new experience centre, where students will experience the Stortinget in a completely new way and will be able to play representatives for one day. In parallel with active information work, it is necessary to be clear that political life is about seeking compromises and reaching agreement – finding solutions where different interests are to be weighed against each other. The movement this requires of batches with different starting positions requires room for confidentiality between representatives. The committees and party groups — all 165 representatives of the house — are such rooms. We must ensure that the representatives are given jobs which enable all to participate constructively in the forums in which the decision-making process is taking place. In the hope that the representatives will do their utmost to solve the many and large tasks ahead of us, we gather in the old desire: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen, and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince then left the staging room, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-02.ana.ud1722e624	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
