ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e32	The representatives Hallgeir H. Langeland and Siri A. Meling have received applications for leave from 7 June to 10 June, both to participate in the Western Nordic Council's conference on energy in Reykjavik. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representatives of Rogaland County, Ingrid Fiskaa and Inger Lise Aarrestad are invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e58	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e74	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e81	First of all, I would like to stress that in Norway, it is a fundamental human right to be able to choose whether to marry, and to whom to marry. Let me stress that it is forbidden to coerce anyone in Norway. The matter we are dealing with now is whether those who are at risk of being compulsorily detoxified, or who have been compulsorily detoxified, will receive free assistance from an aid lawyer. This problem concerns both girls and boys, and it is usually about very young people. Such matters are very problematic, as claiming the right not to be coercive can lead to a crime forever, or at least for periods, with their own family here in the country and in the country of their parents. The Committee has gathered on the need to strengthen the legal certainty of these young people. The Ministry of Justice points out that in June they will set up a sample to investigate the situation in criminal proceedings. This sample will be asked to propose measures to strengthen the position of disadvantaged people. An overall committee also asks the Ministry to assess how the Criminal Procedures Act can be amended in order to give more people the right to an aid lawyer — young people who are about to be compulsorily abducted, but also those who are exposed to serious crime abroad. In the newspaper’s online edition of May 24th this year, we could read that the Red Cross’s information phone on forced marriage in May has increased the number of girls and boys who fear that their parents will take them to their home country to marry them away now during the summer vacation. We have also seen over several years that, especially in Oslo schools, children and young people have been excluded from statutory schooling, especially after vacations. The matter is therefore very topical, and a law should be in place as quickly as possible. A single Justice Department has therefore presented a Document No. Eight proposals for the Odel Sting to amend the Criminal Procedures Act § 107a already now. This proposal is intended to be debated and adopted in Odelstinget and Lamentations before we take a summer holiday, and we want what is adopted to have immediate effect – if we adopt it as we wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e100	We're not going to have a long debate on this. We agree that it is important to provide an aid lawyer. What I want to address is that the Oslo Crisis Centre does not have enough money to continue the offer to girls who have been subjected to forced marriage. I will challenge the hall not to let that happen! If, as a total accumulation, we accept that there is no relief after young people have broken with their families, and after we have recommended them to break, it is nothing but a betrayal. SV is going to take this up in the context of the revision, and it's almost so I expect it to get in touch, so that we can secure these young people the help they need. There is no question that we are not doing anything, when all parties – since the Fadime case, and also a long time before that – have said clearly that coercion is completely unacceptable, and that this society stands up with the help that young people need, and we have recommended them to break up with the family, with networks, with friends – often all of them with safe frameworks in Norway. For some of them, this is even a society that is completely unknown, and where they don't have any help or acquaintances to resort to in order to gain security in everyday life. These are people in extreme need. Are we going to sit still and not do anything, when the measure that can offer them the necessary help and protection is at risk of being abandoned? I think that is so shameful that I now took the floor in connection with it, despite the fact that that is not exactly what we are now discussing – that is actually the aid lawyer system. But this is related. We cannot let this happen, and I expect the other parties on the Stortinget to take action on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e109	There may be very good reason to do as the Committee says, and to do what one will follow up, namely to give victims of forced marriages explicit rights to advocates of assistance. Under the law in force, offended persons have the right to a lawyer in such cases only if there is reason to believe that insult as a result of the act suffers significant damage to their body or health and that there is a need for a lawyer. It's also right, as the committee says, that it is, for example, may arise from questions as to when the right to intervene in the marriage process to an aid lawyer. I agree with the Committee that the committee which is to assess the situation of the offended person in criminal proceedings, including the aid lawyer scheme, is asked to clarify the right to an aid lawyer in cases of forced marriage. With regard to the concrete solution that the rapporteur has now outlined, I think it is a good and a good expression of what can be done right now. Then I would like to add that I am aware that not all countries have the same legal aid arrangements as Norway, and as I have stated in this room earlier, legal aid costs abroad can be covered by a specific assessment. As I have also pointed out, the Norwegian system of assistant lawyers is based on the fact that the lawyer has a right to participate in the legal proceedings and, in this respect, has a procedural role. In some countries, there is no legal aid scheme. It has therefore not been given that an aid lawyer from the Norwegian State can act in the same way as in Norway. I nevertheless understand that it may be an extra burden to become a victim of a serious crime abroad. I would therefore like to ask the sample to assess the legal position of the offended person, to assess whether the Norwegian aid lawyer scheme should also include some cases where Norwegians are subjected to serious crimes abroad. Finally, with regard to the topic raised by the representative Thorkildsen, I am personally familiar with it through the media. But because in my time I was actually involved in a split layer in setting up this system, I have taken an independent initiative to investigate what is the situation, and what can be done to correct what is the situation in that matter, i.e. the book-collective that has existed in connection with the Oslo Crisis Centre. I think it is right to provide this case information in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e122	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e137	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e144	It is very important that there is a good flow in the criminal justice chain. The Court of Justice’s assessment of evidence is best and most judicious if it takes place shortly after the date of the action. Furthermore, the aim of the penalty is most effective if the response is closely related to the criminal offence. Representatives Rui, Gjul and Storberget propose in Document No. 8:63 that before the end of spring 2005, the Government will make proposals to the Grand Duchy which will help to speed up criminal proceedings. An overall justice policy supports the intention behind this proposal. It is a regrettable fact that in many cases the length of proceedings in criminal courts is long. There is little doubt that a more rapid treatment of criminal cases will strengthen the preventative effect of punishment. It will also strengthen trust in the judicial system. For the Christian People's Party, it is particularly important to stress that a shorter period of proceedings will also reduce the burden on the offended and other relatives. The Ministry has been working for several years to ensure that criminal proceedings are speeded up. For example, in 1999 it was reported to be set up two working groups entrusted with the task of looking into the period of time during which notification has been received until enforcement has been carried out. In addition, other working groups have recently been set up and several meetings and symposia have been organised in which key actors in the criminal justice chain have been present and have been involved in efficiency improvement measures. The Ministry’s efforts have resulted in several concrete actions, each contributing to a better flow in the criminal justice chain. Paragraph 59 of the Penal Code is, for example, as amended to ensure that more emphasis is placed on confessions in criminal proceedings. Section 13 of the Criminal Procedures Act has been amended so that it no longer imposes any obligation to reconcile criminal cases. Several other legislative changes have also been made to the Criminal Procedures Act and to the Law of the Court of Justice in order to ensure a faster settlement of cases. Much has been done, but I would nevertheless stress that there is still a need for improvement. The Workers' Party believes that state lawyers should be involved in the investigation and be more in charge of it. However, the Government Parties, the Advance Party and the SV disagree with this proposal. Section 225 of the Criminal Procedure Act opens up the possibility for the Riksadvokat and a State Attorney to order the initiation of an investigation and how it is to be carried out. The determination is strictly practised, but e.g. in serious and complicated cases of financial crime under the auspices of Ecocrime, a state attorney often leads the investigation. However, I would like to emphasise that the limited involvement of state lawyers in the investigation also has its advantages from a legal certainty perspective. It is appropriate, in the opinion of the majority of the committee, that the prosecutors have been involved only in a minority of criminal cases when they will subsequently take a position on the investigation material, either in the decision on the issue of charges or in the case of complaints. The government parties and the SV also believe that a statutory maximum period to take action in all criminal cases has unfortunate aspects. It is important to note that there are wide variations in the nature and extent of criminal proceedings. Both the police and the courts have a responsibility to review their working methods and practices with a view to increasing efficiency. Legal certainty is fundamental in criminal proceedings. Ensuring a sound judicial process is an important social interest. However, the need to ensure that justice is safeguarded must always be balanced against the need for effectiveness. The Judicial Committee considers that in Norway it is possible to place greater emphasis on efficiency than is currently the case, without jeopardising the legal certainty of individuals. The Committee calls on the Government to draw up an overall package of measures to reduce criminal proceedings. The action package shall include, inter alia: include a review of the organisation of the prosecution authority, an assessment of cross-compliance rules and greater evidence in the courts, possible changes to the procedural rules, a review of the rules on the remuneration of lawyers and an investigation of the time limit for the taking of proceedings and criminal proceedings. In doing so, the Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry, wishes to ensure that the time spent on police and judicial proceedings is reduced. I recommend Stortinget to join this proposal, and refer otherwise to the setting as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e177	There are too long queues in all parts of our criminal justice chain. The criminal record is struggling with queue problems, it's line for investigation by the police, it's line in the courts and line in front of the prison gates. The problem of cows weakens the effectiveness of criminal law and in itself creates a serious legal security problem. The defendants and the offended must today wait too long for final judgment. This also creates additional pressure on the police and other actors in the criminal justice chain. The challenge today, therefore, is not primarily more severe punishments, but it is a quick response. Together, the courts and the police have a responsibility to carry out criminal proceedings as quickly as possible. The fact that the response to a criminal offence comes as soon as possible after the offence is committed is particularly important. The general and individual prevention objectives of the punishment are best achieved through rapid treatment. The reaction should come as soon as possible after the action has been taken. In addition, the situation of the victims of crime is best ensured if the criminal case comes as soon as possible, including in particular: the possibility of claiming damages and damages. The burden of a pending case must be minimised. This is legal certainty for the victims first and foremost, but the legal certainty of the perpetrators is also best safeguarded by more rapid treatment. Witnesses and other evidence have the best effect when the action has not been committed a long time ago. Many who have experienced being victims of a criminal act start a process of processing difficult feelings in order to put the experience behind them. But when the trial comes back after a long time, feelings associated with the experience roll over again, and the victims have to rework the difficult things they have experienced. For these people, rapid criminal proceedings have a lot to say. We have also been very concerned that young offenders should face rapid reactions and be able to quickly settle for themselves. Then they have the opportunity to get on with schooling and education, and maybe you can turn them away from the criminal career, so that they can start a new and better life as young law-abiding citizens. In addition, more rapid and flexible procedures will help to reduce the costs of the process resulting from the need for more people to deal with the same issues due to the passage of time. The impact of reduced crime as a consequence of rapid judgment cannot be underestimated either. In recent years, the majority has set time limits for criminal proceedings before the courts, in particular where they are in prison or are minors. These deadlines work to a great extent as intended. These provisions of the Criminal Procedures Act, §§ 275 and 249, are obviously not sufficient to reduce the overall length of proceedings. The trial period is still too long with the police and in the courts. There are striking large differences between, for example: Sweden and Norway for the purposes of proceedings. More than 4,000 criminal cases have been pending in the Courts of First Instance in recent years, and despite increased productivity in courts, the balance has been stable. Since 1999, the average length of proceedings in criminal proceedings in the Courts of First Instance has been moving upwards from 3.1 months to 3.4 months, despite the fact that the Stortinge case for the duration of proceedings is 3 months. In addition, criminal cases appear to have a clear tendency to escalate, involving difficulties in rapid resolution. In addition, criminal cases appear in several cases to remain in part for long periods of time during the investigation. In Sweden, difficult and complicated criminal cases – as we have seen in the context of both the Lindh killing, the Fadime killing and the Knutby killings – are being carried out very quickly in the main proceedings shortly after the act has been committed, without this seemingly weakening legal certainty. We believe, on the contrary, that legal certainty is strengthened in such a process, as the evidence is fresh and the people involved on both sides have their memories clear in their heads. The organisation of the prosecution authority should be assessed against the need for an appropriate management of the investigation. Consideration should be given to whether the state lawyers can not be involved in the investigation and, more significantly, govern it when someone is charged with the criminal proceedings, inter alia. with a view to determining the appeal matter as quickly as possible. Finally, changes to the rules in addition to the provisions of Section 275 of the Criminal Procedures Act which contribute to a faster assessment in the courts should be considered. We are pleased that all parties have agreed with us on the first proposal of the Labour Party. We have only got the Progress Party on the last proposal. I address this last proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e196	The representative Anne Helen Rui has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e199	I will start by giving tribute to the proposers for the proposal that has now been presented. I think you, as a member of the Storting, are always going to have an ambition to take on things that you think it makes sense to take hold of. This has been done by representatives from the Workers' Party, and I think that is something we should pay tribute to. At least it's at least a kind of commitment you have. When you enter Norway’s top elected arena, it must be because you have an ambition to do something, to influence things, to change things. It contributes to the Workers' Party in this matter, and it is to be given credit for that. All too often, we are more concerned with discussing disagreements than with discussing consensus, progress and goals for what we are discussing. In this way I will once again give tribute to the Workers' Party, for I think this is good and positive. Then, of course, we can disagree on time, costs and other things, but if we have as ambition only to hold back and not have progress, it doesn't serve that matter, and it doesn't serve the Storting as an organ. This type of proposal is probably a little controversial from the Government's point of view. I assume that the government itself wants to keep its hand on the wheel and largely promote the proposals for changes that will come. Now, however, the Storting has the right and access to make the proposals they want to make, and they are then dealt with. So to the very idea of increasing the speed of criminal proceedings. That, in our view, makes a lot of sense. That's good for victims, and that's good for perpetrators. As the representative Rui was in the city, and as the rapporteur was in the Chamber, we have seen a trial period that Stortinget is not satisfied with. Then this is a challenge that concerns us all. Perhaps the most serious thing about a long treatment period in criminal matters is situations where you end up with an acquittal. So then a person has gone around with a threat picture hanging over him without the possibility of cleaning, because it has taken too long. Only that alone I think is a good reason why you should apply with any possible means to get a faster procedure. However, although he or she may subsequently have a replacement, it is very unfortunate. Another element that you should also take with you is that if it goes a long time without anything happening, and the victim and the perpetrator meet, I think it's a situation that the victim will appreciate very little. Of course, you have feelings after being exposed to an action you don't want. It goes on fear and insecurity and maybe hate and despair, all of this that affects the relationship between the two people involved, and not least the relationship with the public, which is going to give a reaction outwards. One of the last moments I have also considered in this case is that unfortunately it is also such that long processing times often lead to lower penalties. It is also a feature of the Progress Party that makes it important to focus on this and reduce the length of the procedure where possible. Measures have also been taken in the past, but that does not mean that we should stop. It's a need, as others have been faced with, to look at opportunities in relation to the shortening of evidence, the choice of lawyers, the number of witnesses, etc. Although the Labour Party proposal contains a lot of good, it also contains a relationship of involving state lawyers to a greater extent. It does not want to be supported by the Progress Party, in addition to the access that already exists today. When it comes to our proposal, we have said something about the role of the lawyer. Clearly, the lawyer plays a major role in criminal matters. Previous steps have been taken to reduce access to free choice of lawyer. At the same time, we believe that there is also a need to reconsider the possibility for the lawyer to influence the progress of criminal proceedings. Although rules have changed, we believe that the Government should review whether further action is possible to reduce the time of proceedings. The most important thing for all of us is to ensure legal certainty, and legal certainty at least means that we are best protected by a prompt and concrete procedure, with judgment where it is justified, and acquittal where justified. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e222	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e225	On 29 January 2003 and 24 March of this year, the undersigned addressed the issue of Document No. 8:63 concerns, namely a faster criminal settlement. An important principle of legal certainty is that the accused should have their cases dealt with promptly in the courts. As is well known, more rapid treatment of criminal cases has already been adopted, for example: in the case of a rapid court or by setting time limits in cases for persons under 18 years of age. I support the need for matters in the judicial system to be dealt with more quickly. Introducing clear deadlines from court proceedings to appeals in higher courts will be ideal and, of course, will also be a priority task. One of the main problems in several cases is that the defender wants the case suspended due to his own close review programme. The time limit laid down in the law may therefore lead to the appointment of a new defender, who may take the case within the time limit. This will also balance the free choice of defence with the rapid resolution of criminal proceedings. Both have an impact on the legal certainty aspect. What will be most important for the defendant, the swift settlement of the case or the right to choose the defender? Another factor in improving the effectiveness of justice is the use of modern technological aids such as video interrogations by witnesses, or, as in England, video interrogations from prison in such matters as: the extension of custody. Society is undergoing major upheavals, in particular with regard to technological innovation. The courts, not just a few places like today, but across the country, should intensify the use of modern technology. Time consumption per the case being dealt with is also increasing. The judges rarely impose fines on unethical lawyers, rarely cut off the list of irrelevant witnesses, and do not impose strict enough requirements on the evidence. In Norway, we have had neither tradition nor culture to have the rule of law of the Norwegian courts. In Drammen earlier this year, the so-called car bombing case was dealt with before the courts. There is reason to ask about the need to summon 65 witnesses, especially when none of the witnesses have seen the perpetrator at the scene. Witnesses shall supply the matter with important elements and evidence, not obscure the facts. Some legal cases contain far more than previously more irrelevant information and evidence. Lawyers set the agenda instead of the judges doing it. In certain media-profiled cases, the use of the number of witnesses and experts and inappropriate evidence is oversized in relation to the real need to prove guilt or innocence. Irrelevant perceptions from the parties do not deceive judges’ backslidingness and discretion, but create unnecessary chaos and riots around the legal cases. Those who benefit less from this new case-law are intended. If you compare Norway with Sweden in relation to two cases — one was the Fadime case in Sweden, and the other was the Azarnia case in Norway — it took 44 days in Sweden before an action was brought, while in Norway it took 180 days. In Sweden, it takes eight weeks from the first instance to deal with the matter, until the second instance is done, if there is an appeal. However, in Norway, this case was started at second instance after 370 days, i.e. over one year afterwards. This is not a good legal certainty. Legal certainty is improved and scarcely reduced by setting stricter requirements for more use of written documentation and fewer, but relevant, witnesses, as the Swedes have done. Other effective measures that the Government de facto has contributed to reducing the time between the moment of the offence and a judgment can be dismissed include:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t enhanced prosecution competence for police lawyers better investigation methods — and, in the view of the Right, space interception should be allowed to ensure better evidence against any intentional and thus strengthen legal certainty reorganization of the judicial system under the merger of the jurisdictions of the Court of Justice from 92 to 66 units the separation of property clearance from the courts of the State Cartels a collection of the mortgage book register in one place The Minister of Justice, as late as 23 March, has announced a further tightening of the law in relation to rapid criminal proceedings before the courts, unless the cooperation between the administration of the Court of Justice, the National Attorney, the Police Directorate and the Association of Lawyers ensures a greater pace of criminal proceedings. In conclusion, I would like to boast about Frostating's rights, which have gone new ways to reduce the length of proceedings. Internal procedures have been put in place with so-called overbooking of cases, and clear deadlines and targets have been set for the implementation of individual cases before the Court of Justice. This has meant that there are no longer any leftovers in the Court of Justice, and it is exemplary in dealing with cases. It appears that setting clear deadlines, setting clear targets, is very appropriate and helps to ensure legal certainty for individuals. Representatives of the Court of Justice point out that proceedings would be even faster if the possibility of the police being able to take action in cases could be extended. The Ryssdal Committee of 1988, i.e. 16 years ago, pointed this out in a report to the Norwegian Grand Prix. This is an exemplary example of management, and proves that it is not always the size of the appropriations that are crucial in relation to effective criminal proceedings. The ability to get more money back is usually a result of human factors such as creativity, solution orientation and setting clear goals without delving into past routines.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e272	SV is very concerned that the time from crime has been committed, until reaction has been initiated, often is unacceptable. If the legal system is to have the necessary confidence from its citizens, it is essential that the reactions come quickly. This is important for the victims, for the offender's sea and for all the relatives on both sides, it's important for society in general and for our security. The prevention and deterrent aspect is dramatically weakened when it takes years before the offender receives a legitimate response. SV is therefore very busy bringing down the processing time. The question is how best to do this. The Labour Party has promoted two proposals. One proposal is to have new time-limits, according to which, as a general rule, cases are to be judged at first instance before six months have elapsed, and in any case within two months of the date of the action. The second proposal is to ask the Government to draw up a package of measures to reduce criminal proceedings, such as: contain a review of the organisation of prosecution authorities, the assessment of cross-cutting rules for the conduct of evidence, a greater degree of writtenness in the courts, possible changes to the procedural rules, the review of the rules on the remuneration of lawyers and an investigation of the time limit for the taking-up of proceedings and criminal proceedings. To take the last one first, we support this proposal. This is because we believe that there is a significant efficiency potential in the criminal chain, and we are not satisfied with what has so far happened from today's government. The first proposal, on the other hand, we consider unfortunate for several reasons. We are afraid that this proposal will give people in Norway false hopes, because there are many other issues that this proposal does not deal with as it needs to be cleared up before we can get the trial period down enough. In addition, we are afraid that the length of the procedure on non-priority issues will be extremely high because of the focus on some issues. It's always a side effect that you can get, and it's unintended. What we are also afraid of is that the deadlines can become a sleep cushion in order to avoid taking other and more costly measures and demanding measures in other ways. So there's been a discussion in the media that I don't have a complete overview of, because I haven't read the report that's been sent to the Ministry of Justice, like, among other things. District Court Judge Langbach has delivered – I have not received that report. It points out that there are many things that can be done with Norwegian courts to make them more effective. It's look to Sweden that's their mantra. For me, it is difficult to decide on this without having discussed it more thoroughly. However, what is at least on the Justice Department website is a report by a working group set up by the Ministry of Justice on 4 September 2003 on improving the effectiveness of criminal proceedings. That's where you've looked at the Oslo thing right and what can be done there. What this group has looked at is the electronic preparation and exchange of information between the perpetrators, measures to reduce the number of pending cases before Oslo, and measures to improve the effectiveness of judicial proceedings at first and second instance. The working group has also assessed whether sufficient resources have been allocated in the criminal justice chain to deal with existing and future cases. It says something about what they think we need to focus on. They point out that there has been a marked increase in the number of main negotiations and legal days for Oslo District Court. They believe that the cause lies partly in the liquidation of the rest, partly in an increase in the percentage of police clearance and partly in changes in the capital's crime image. The trend is towards more comprehensive and complex issues, and a greater proportion of crime is cross-border or is conducted by people working together in networks. Furthermore, economic crime has been a field of activity, which has led to a number of major criminal cases in recent times, they say. They have also looked at access to resources in the courts. It is clear that it is also an important field. They have drawn up 32 proposals for measures that they consider should be implemented. They include: Look at the number of posts that should be given to Oslo District Court and State Attorney's Office, as well as to the police in Oslo – and there are few. There is a lot of money that needs to be done. That's why we fear that just creating new rules does not contribute to anything but that people get hopes that unfortunately are not being fulfilled. And that's dangerous, because then the trust in the entire legal system can get worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e286	It has been a high priority task for me for several years to promote measures to speed up criminal proceedings. There is broad consensus that more rapid criminal proceedings can enhance both the preventive effect of the penalty and the confidence in the judicial system and reduce the burden on the offended and others affected. As I have explained in my letter to the Committee on 5 May this year, the Ministry has set up several working groups, promoted a wide range of legislative proposals and facilitated other measures to achieve the objective of speeding up criminal proceedings. But I agree with the Committee that there is room for improvement in different measures, and the work on such measures is still a high priority in the ministry. As part of that work, I will, of course, follow closely the effect of the time-limit rules that exist in the penal laws §§ 249 and 275. In my letter to the Committee, I mention, among other things: some legislative measures are under way by the Ministry. However, in my view, it is now important, in particular, to focus on measures other than legislative measures. I refer in that context to the report mentioned by the representative Thorkildsen, which concerns Oslo District Court. The working group has been set up on the initiative of the Department and in cooperation with the District Court, the Court of Justice, the police and higher prosecution authorities, and continued to include criminal justice. This work shows in a breakdown of proposals that very much that can happen is cultural-organizational, very much practical, which is rule change, and something is money. The working group is working this year to ensure that the things that are now not initially budget dependent succeed. At the same time, we know that the administration of the Court of Justice has a focus on the issue of resources. So it's important to refer to this example from Oslo, which the representative of Thorkildsen was also involved in. I would also like to stress that in recent years there have been a significant number of legislative changes in the area of criminal proceedings, both in order to ensure more rapid criminal proceedings and for other purposes. Too many legislative changes within a given period can be counterproductive. If actors are given the impression that they are barely given the time to get inside and align themselves with a change in the law before the next one comes into force, it may be depressing. And the conversion of procedures can in itself seem resource-intensive. However, one should never be exempted from finding the cutting edge that makes us get to the necessary efficiency. I would like to point out that on 23 April this year I held a meeting with the State Attorney, the President and Secretary-General of the Norwegian Law Association, the Director of the Court Administration and a representative of the police department, the Police Directorate, where the issue was the efficiency of the criminal proceedings chain. Here everyone present agreed that it is fully possible to achieve more efficiency in the criminal justice chain without jeopardising legal certainty. However, these very key actors in the criminal justice chain also agreed that the need for legislative changes was now more limited. In their view, the focus should be on the cultures and attitudes that affect the pace of criminal proceedings. I would like to emphasise that the responsibility for speeding up criminal proceedings lies with all the actors: police, prosecution, defence and judges. The fact that, in many cases, matters do not go fast enough can be described as a cultural problem, a problem that all actors are responsible for solving. Possible measures are, for example: to improve the perceived benefits of a confessional sentence, to increase the control of the time spent in criminal proceedings, i.e. to increase the number of judges in the process than directed by the parties, and to consider the possibility of preparatory court meetings to identify the possible need for evidence interception prior to the start of the main hearing. Several of these moments have been discussed by speakers before my speech, but there are a number of important measures. I have therefore followed the initiative of April this year, and will, in cooperation with the administration of the Court of Justice early in the autumn, organise a practical symposium to follow up this cooperation between all the actors, i.e. the administration of the Court of Justice with its autonomy, the prosecution authority, the police and the defenders, in order to go through all the possibilities that we can say are linked to culture and the process. The meeting on 23 April made it clear that there was a willingness here to find other ways of working than the situation today. The report from Oslo District Court, presented by the representative Thorkildsen, is an exemplary example of just such a way of working. Proposalers also point to the rapid treatment of complex criminal cases in Sweden. I have asked for the report from Langbach and Groseth. We have used it as an incentive to think, among other things. at the meeting on 23 April, but I must also add that there has been concern in Sweden about the number of resumption cases, some of which may be a result of rapid case resolution. In Norway, too, the challenge is to find the right balance between a sufficiently rapid pace and a reassuring procedure. But I end by reiterating what was the agreed conclusion between the administration of the Court of Justice, the representatives of the parliament, the police directorate and the Norwegian Bar Association, the defenders, that it is fully possible to achieve more efficiency without jeopardising legal certainty in Norwegian courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e303	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e306	There is a relatively large consensus that cases could go somewhat faster through the criminal chain without this at the expense of legal certainty. The Council of State refers to the fact that there are many resumption cases in Sweden, and I fully agree that legal certainty must be the bearing criterion, but, as the Council of State also knows – and that is probably the basis of the Resumption Commission – Norway now has its cases as well. In addition to providing new rules, it is important to use those that you have, including in terms of interception rules for evidence and active process management. As regards the question of having preparatory legal meetings in order to find out how long you really need, it is known that this will lead to some resources during a transitional period that will be spent on preparatory meetings, without necessarily leading to an immediate reduction in the waiting lists. It also means that it is important to look at the supply of resources to the courts, not least during such a transitional period. We fully agree that we should be as effective as possible without going beyond legal certainty, but we don't want to create a new one, what we should say, wait top because we want to do something about it, which is positive in the long term, without being able to add resources that could actually take care of this transition period. With regard to the issues of having new deadlines, it is true that the Government itself operates with figures. Targets are in particular considering a number for which a binding or particularly measurable verification is not desirable. What this proposal by the Labour Party and the Progress Party is about here is precisely to give content to the figures that you talk about nicely in speeches, but that you don't follow up in the budgets. This will not only be a matter of purely formal deadlines, but also, in fact, an obligation on the part of the Government and also on the part of the Stortingen to propose and to grant the necessary funds to implement a deadline for the Storingen then set.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e315	If you are raped in Norway today, in addition to the traumatic experience of the crime itself, you are at risk of experiencing that your case will not come to judgment, at least not until one year has passed, that there will be no prosecution until at least 200 days have passed. Over 90 pst. of the women concerned, it appears that the outcome of the case does not at all imply a judgment. In my view and in the view of the Labour Party, this is one of the main challenges for Norwegian criminal policy. That over 90 pst. Of the victims in these kinds of cases actually don't experience any reaction, that's the worst. This proposal by the Labour Party, this private proposal that we are now considering, has been promoted in the light of just such a situation. It's to strengthen the legal security of people. When we get a faster procedure, we also have an opportunity to increase the rate of conviction in the cases. The evidence is fresh, we know that it's easier to give evidence, and also easier to get it, when we know that things are going to happen faster than today. So this has to do with building legal certainty. I'm glad that a total accumulation and an overall committee join the proposal that gets the majority today, so that we get the review that the Workers' Party has asked for, which I think can clearly contribute to improvements. We're well on the way, we've made changes in relation to, for example. moving prosecution competence. It was argued that legal certainty would be lost when you wanted to move it down to the police chief level, so that you would not have time to lie down and wait by sending things up and down. What we've seen is that it works. You get a faster process of it, and it doesn't go at the expense of legal certainty, rather the opposite. So I think it's also a little bit of a different way of thinking for all of us who have argued with legal certainty over many years. Regarding the question of the deadlines, which SV seems particularly skeptical about, I have to say that the experience of the criminal proceedings law §§ 249 and 275 so far seems to be very positive, and that it has been very good compared to that. But the last thing – and I think that in many ways is well exemplified by the fact that there are differences between courts in Norway – is also about culture, and about how to tackle the set of rules that you actually have. There I am pleased with the initiative that the Minister of Justice has taken, and the process that he is about to enter, and that will prove to us that this is about reducing a bedtime for cases, and it has nothing to do with legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e324	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e337	Then Stortinget goes to voting in case No. 1-2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e367	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ann Helen Rui on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 2, from Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government to review current legislation on the choice of lawyers and to assess whether further changes can be made that will help to reduce the length of proceedings in criminal matters.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e392	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting before the end of spring 2005 with legislative changes and measures that will help to judge criminal cases, where possible, before 6 months have elapsed, and in any event within 2 months of the date of the action.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04.ana.ud136e433	There is no record.
