ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e40	The President will propose that two presidents of Odelsting's meetings be elected today and the remaining part of the spring session - and consider it adopted. The President proposes Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik. Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik are unanimously elected presidents of Odelstinget's meetings today and the remaining part of the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e61	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e66	This case has its background in the previous magnification period, where the Stortinget dealt with changes to the penal law § 382 on violence in the media. At the time, the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs said: "The Committee is very positive about the changes proposed in Section 382 of the Penal Code. The current revision to ensure that new forms of viewing and marketing of films and videograms are regulated by electronic switchboards and interactive programmes. The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Christian People's Party and the Centre, will stress that film clubs, which do not show films in the industry, must be exempted from this provision. This is assumed to be taken into account by the Ministry in the design of the regulations. Film club activities, as they are currently run by member clubs of the Norwegian Film Club Association, are not, in the opinion of these members, of a commercial nature. It is clarified that the background to this exception is that film clubs operate an art and cultural activity and are independent criticism and debate forums." So this is the background for today's case, where the government is now following up the bulk of the population from then on. The majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, all except the members of the Christian People's Party, now considers that the proposal submitted will extend the freedom of information and increase the possibility of criticising and holding professional debates on the use of gross violence in films. Gross cinematographic violence is currently available to many through private imports, the Internet, satellite channels, etc. These are forms of prevalence that are not subject to criminal law when the distributor is not subject to Norwegian jurisdiction. In the majority’s view, the existence of such privately available violence is in itself an argument that a forum is needed to debate film violence, and these can best be established in the majority’s view if, within a narrow framework, there is any reason for public viewing of the violence films in question. Another majority, all except the members of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, are pleased that the Government has promoted legislative amendments to Section 382th paragraph of the Criminal Act, but will limit the exemption in the law somewhat in relation to the Ministry's proposal. The majority believe that the exemption should cover film clubs operating in the same ideal way as the clubs in the Norwegian Film Club Federation, i.e. a non-commercial film club, or that the display is to take place outside the industry and under the permission of local police. The majority have noted that a majority of the hearing bodies essentially support the proposal of the ministry, including the following: on the grounds that the amendment will extend the freedom of information. This assessment is supported. This majority has also taken note of the objections raised by a minority of the hearing bodies, such as: indicates that pictures of violence may have an adverse signal and impact effect. The majority understand this concern, but refer to the conditions that must exist in order to be able to legally display gross violent descriptions. In the view of the majority, this means that a person limits his presentation to an adult and conscious audience. The majority also indicates that these films will not be opened for sale or legal rental in Norway, and this will limit the possibility of viewing to other audiences than those covered by the law. The majority have also noted that the exemption does not apply to and supports serious violence in computer games. The majority propose that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 382 be amended as follows: "The paragraph also does not apply to the presentation of film and videograms to persons over 18 years of age. b in the direction of a non-commercial film club, or c in the case of demonstrations outside the industry and authorised by local police." The last one needs a little bit more explanation. The majority believe that when the police decide whether to grant authorisation under point (b), the central assessment theme will be the purpose of the display. If the police have reason to believe that an otherwise illegal violent film should be shown in a violent or speculative context, the police may reject the application. In the view of the majority, the police can do the same when there is reason to fear that the organisers are unable to comply with the 18-year limit. On the other hand, the majority are concerned that adult persons or organisations wishing to show such films as part of a current public debate will normally be authorised. The situation may, for example: is that in a school circle there have been acts of violence that some people think are inspired by scenes of violence in a film that young people have seen in private with each other. The parents' Labour Committee may need to inform a larger parent group about the past and in this context show the film, so that parents are as well informed as young people. The majority would also point out that, when assessing the issue of authorisation, the police are not to decide whether the film is illegal or not, but are based on the applicant’s assumption that the film can only be shown after authorisation. On this background, I recommend the amendment of the majority's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e105	As the rapporteur of the matter described in detail, this case has a rather shaky history. In the context of the amendment of Section 382 of the Criminal Code in 1998, the majority of the Committee on Culture argued that film clubs should be exempted from the provision to prohibit the production of serious violence. Only the Christian People's Party and the Center Party went against it at that time. Following the follow-up to the case in Stortinget on 13 December 1999, the majority of the Culture Committee promoted a request decision in which the Stortinget instructed the Government to draw up rules for the viewing of films covered by Section 382 of the Criminal Code. The proposed treatment of Odelstinget by Odelstinget is a follow-up to the will of the majority of the population. It is supported by all parties in the Committee, with the exception of the Christian People's Party. The permission to present serious reports of violence will naturally create a debate. It has been highlighted as an argument against this giving an unfortunate signal effect in relation to the acceptance of entertainment violence. The Labour Party is also concerned about the emergence of the extreme violence environment and the negative impact of gross violence on young people. But that is precisely why it is also important to have the serious violence films on the market highlighted and discussed. Gross cinematographic violence descriptions are currently available to many through private imports, the Internet, satellite channels, etc. These are forms of prevalence that are not subject to criminal law. The existence of such privately available reports of violence is a good reason for the need for forums to discuss film violence. Film clubs and parents are therefore suitable forums for showing such films, precisely with the aim of getting a critical debate and raising awareness. The majority have chosen to limit the derogation in the law a little more than that provided by the ministry. We want the exemption to apply only to film clubs operating in the same ideal way as the clubs in the Norwegian Film Club Association, or to be displayed outside the industry and after permission from the local police. We believe that such a legislative proposal has now been drafted by the majority of the Committee, it is more in line with the boundaries set by the Culture Committee for the presentation of serious reports of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e120	This is an important matter, which - as many of the other issues in the Stortinget - have to do with going up some boundaries for how to relate to a reality that the majority appreciates little, but which is nevertheless a reality out there in society. So it's essentially important. It is also important to clarify what kind of premises and venues can be used to take the necessary debates on where to go, and under what kind of regime to do this, and, not least, what kind of transparency the public should have as a basis for their debates. That's why it's very timely to get a clarification of the arena where you can debate the boundaries. You go up the political dividing lines, cf. what the rapporteur and the representative, Gjul, were in the process of doing. You can see that, for example, for the Christian People's Party, it is unacceptable to be part of this, which is the basis of a political ideology. You have to respect that. It is also about the possibility of freedom of expression and freedom of information. As long as we're realists, we have to realize that this type of material exists in society, whether we like it or not, and we have to relate to it. Then our task will be to create an arena for it, and not least to clarify what is to be punished by the law, and under what conditions. The majority are now in the process of creating a system in which people over the age of 18 can be shown under the direction of non-commercial film clubs outside the industry or under the permission of the police. It's basically okay, but it might have been interesting to hear a little bit more about what a non-commercial film club is. Is this a two-member club with three members? Should you have a period of membership? Can you report to the street outside a show? What's the problem here? We clearly record and perceive that you have an ambition to follow up what is in the Norwegian Film Club Federation, but we still doubt whether this is a reasonable way to do it. We believe that this will only lead to creative and speculative arrangements to circumvent the law that is being proposed here. Then you have also taken note of the fact that the police are going to look at this, not that the case rapporteur was right about it - whether the film is banned or not, but whether you have access to it. For the Progress Party, we are doubtful whether it makes sense to use the police's resources for this. The fact that the police are to carry out random checks should be entirely unproblematic, but that formal approval is to be given, we are sceptical about it. We think that's just going to end up as -- let's call it, with all due respect for the Storting -- a political alibi for personal and personal good conscience. So we don't have any faith in it and want a different approach. We believe there are two things that have to be at the bottom here. It is that everyone who has access to such films must be over 18 years of age and there must be a person who is responsible for ensuring it. Besides that, we don't think there is a need for any strange changes. On the basis of this, I mention our alternative proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e139	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e142	I think I should actually be careful to say that SV is very satisfied with what has been achieved here. We got an overview of SV's views in the committee, and the rapporteur has presented what we think in an excellent way. So I think SV has actually also said what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e147	In Ot.prp. No 32 proposes the Government to amend Section 382 of the Penal Code so that films "where, for entertainment purposes, they have made improper use of gross acts of violence" can be shown publicly. However, demonstration is proposed only if: it does not operate under 18 years of age is present during display in premises where control of the presence of no less than 18 years of age has been notified to the police; The background to the bill is a request decision by Stortinget. The decision was taken in 1998 without the support of either the Christian People's Party or the Center Party. I have noticed that a majority of the hearing bodies support the proposal in the proposition. Attention is paid to the fact that the proposal will: extend the freedom of information to increase the possibility of criticising and holding professional debates on the use of gross violence in films to increase the possibility of criticising the exercise of authority by the Film Authority; In addition, it is emphasised that serious cinematographic reports of violence are currently available to many, for example: via private imports, the Internet and satellite channels. These are distribution channels which in many cases are not subject to criminal law. Heavy hearing bodies, such as: However, the Advocate General and the Advocate General of the State of Oslo strongly warn against the amendment of the law. They stress that violence descriptions can have an unfortunate signal and impact effect. Furthermore, they believe that the proposed exemption in Section 382 of the Criminal Act is too far-reaching and that the conditions to be set will be difficult to enforce. The Christian People's Party has not changed its position as regards increased access to show violent violence. We continue to believe that the public concept of criminal law, as is currently the rule for pornographic films, must be taken into account also with regard to the presentation of gross violent films. In our opinion, reports of violence can have an unfortunate signal and impact effect. Therefore, it is not appropriate to open the scope for the increased presentation of films with grossly violent content. We also believe that the exemption is too far-reaching and that the conditions will be difficult to enforce. However, I would like to express my satisfaction that the majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is in favour of making the conditions for the presentation of violent films somewhat stricter and somewhat easier to practice than those proposed in the motion for a resolution. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will vote against the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e194	The issue of treatment today is not itself of the greatest, but it has lines of important principles in a democratic society. It concerns freedom of information, which in turn concerns the openness we want in our society. More specifically, the issue concerns citizens' opportunities to keep themselves informed about what is produced and displayed by films, including speculative and gross violent films, in order to better participate in the general debate on society. At the same time, the issue is how we can combine this transparency with the need to protect children and young people from the negative influence and influence that exposure to gross violence - in reality or on film - can have on an unfinished mind. I think it is right that responsible adults should be able to watch violent films with a critical eye, even in public contexts. At the same time, we must prevent adult freedom from being distorted into indifference to minors. I believe that both the Government's original proposal and the proposal now made by the majority of the Committee maintain this balance. The background to the Government's proposal for a limited liberalisation of the ban in Section 382 of the Penal Code against public viewing of films and videograms "where, for entertainment purposes, gross violence has been misused" was a request decision in the Stortinget in 1999. In a change to the penal code § 382 in 1998, the so-called film club base fell away, without actually being intended by the majority of the population. This exception meant that the film clubs could show violent films regardless of the criminal law ban, because the film clubs did not run the industry. There were no indications that the film clubs were unable to handle this trust properly. The Government took note of the request decision with the view that there may be groups other than those applying for the film clubs, which may also have legitimate grounds for public viewing of otherwise illegal, gross violent films. The obvious example is what the committee itself refers to in the attitude: In a school circle, parents and schools may suspect that one or more childhood rape episodes are inspired by a violent film or violent narrative that is spread through the private viewing of a video film or that is on the Internet. If parents want to make a concerted effort to do so, there may be a need to show the reports of violence in question on, for example: a parent meeting. However, without a derogation as proposed, such display would in principle be illegal. For the Government, it has therefore been important to provide for an exemption from the prohibition in Section 382 of the Criminal Act, which will cover all those who have a legitimate reason for public disclosure to persons over 18 years of age of otherwise illegitimate gross acts of violence. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee has voted in favour of the liberalisation of Section 382 of the Criminal Code, which ensures this, even though the majority chooses a different model from that of the Government. The film clubs will have an unconditional right to show other illegal violent films, while other viewing outside the industry can only take place after permission from the local police. In this context, it is good that the Committee emphasises that "adults or organisations who wish to show otherwise illegal violence as part of a current public debate will normally be authorised". Rejection shall be reserved for situations where the police have reason to believe that the film will be shown in a glorified or speculative manner or where there is reason to fear that the 18-year limit will not be effectively enforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e207	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e223	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e228	This proposition is to facilitate the taking of evidence without prior notice to the counterparty, where there is a risk that the purpose of the taking of evidence would otherwise be erroneous, for example: there is reason to suspect that the counterparty would destroy the evidence in question before the commencement of the taking of evidence, if notified in advance. The Committee today unanimously supports this amendment. The new rules proposed relate to the taking of evidence before civil proceedings are brought. To date, there has been a legal certainty problem that parties notified of receipt of evidence will be able to destroy the evidence or adapt in other ways. The Court of Justice of the European Communities shall have jurisdiction over the application of the provisions of this Article. When this law is enforced, the court will have extended access to ensure evidence without the counterparty being able to prevent the evidence from being secured. The TRIPS Agreement, the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, is part of the WTO Agreement on the Maintenance of the World Trade Organisation. Following a decision by the Swedish Supreme Court's Committee of Appeals, it became clear that Norwegian law does not comply with the minimum requirements of the TRIPS Agreement for State legislation on the protection of intellectual property rights. For issues of intellectual property rights intervention, the proposal would result in Norway complying with the requirements of the TRIPS Agreement. In this case, all the hearing bodies which expressed their views were positive about the possibility of taking evidence without notifying the counterparty. This possibility of taking evidence may increase legal certainty by strengthening the possibility of correct decisions. An overall committee agrees with the Council of State that this possibility of taking evidence is general, so that no demarcation issues arise in relation to, for example: related file types.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e243	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e259	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e266	The Progress Party Jan Arild Ellingsen and André Kvakkestad have made proposals to amend the Damage Compensation Act § 5-2 so that there is no possibility to relax liability if the basis for liability is the result of a deliberate criminal offence. In the explanatory statement, publishers stress that it is an important principle to be responsible for their actions. There are many law-abiding citizens with little ability to pay who are also heavily indebted. In such cases, the proposers believe that the debtor will have to live up to the requirement and try to find a amortisation plan. The proposers cannot see that criminals should feel better than others who have been in debt. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the SV, share the views of the proposers that everyone should be responsible for their actions, but at the same time is committed to reflecting the criminality of the offence in the event of intentional criminal acts. It is important to stress that civil liability does not respect the same considerations as the penalty does. First of all, the punishment should be general preventive and reflect the seriousness of a crime. The compensation should mainly only restore the actual financial loss suffered by the injured party. The practice of the Supreme Court in this area is unambiguous and sets out in its decisions the principle that victims should be fully compensated in the event of financial loss. On questions from the Committee, the Ministry of Justice announces this by letter of 17 March 2004. The relaxation rule is and must be an exception rule. The current case-law thus shows that, when assessing the relaxation of civil liability, consideration will be given to the existence of a deliberate criminal offence. The gravity of the blame must in itself close for relaxation, regardless of whether the financial responsibility is very burdensome. So in practice, § 5-2 has been practised almost as the proposers wish, namely that the leniency rule of the Damage Compensation Act § 5-2 according to the Supreme Court practice has been applied very rigorously. The High Court practice also shows that the fault of the perpetrator is a serious factor in the leniency assessment. Among other things, relaxation has been rejected in cases of serious integrity violations. Such a practice by the Supreme Court is very relevant when the issue of amendment of the law on damages is discussed in Section 5-2 of the Damage Compensation Act. The reason for introducing the leniency rule in 1973 was that it should be a safety valve against excessive liability in individual cases. Excessive liability on a case-by-case basis could be detrimental to both the ability to pay and the willingness to pay, and could therefore adversely affect the victim. In some cases, excessive practice will also make it much more difficult to achieve a debt regime if the debt is a result of criminal offences. In conclusion, I would like to mention that in criminal and compensation matters, it is of great importance that the courts have a certain freedom to choose sanctions, without the legislator putting too tight a framework. Only in this way can judicial decisions be made as best possible in the individual case. Rigid rules could actually work against their purpose and thus weaken the possibility of imposing damages. For the above reasons, the majority of the Committee rejects the proposal to amend the leniency rules of the Law on Compensation for Damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e292	This case has one important principle, which is largely about how the courts can contribute to remedying what has been damaged, and to the extent that they also have a certain effect in preventing future damage. It is with some wonder that the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter are being seen, which are increasingly - it is very much related to what we have seen in criminal policy as well - moving towards limiting the ability of the courts to use sensible judgement. I have to say that this is what all the politicians in this House want in relation to the results, both in terms of criminal law and in terms of compensation law, it is that the effects of the sanctions that are being implemented must work as well as actually must work better than they do today. It is where the Workers' Party believes that it is essential and important that the courts receive the freedom that has been provided from the very beginning of the Basic Law until today, the freedom to meet both the defendant and the victim, to meet both the defendant and the plaintiff in order to assess and provide the best possible fine-masked network, so that the reaction, whether it be compensation or punishment, is as adapted as possible. I must say that I am very sceptical about the developments we see, among other things. in repeated proposals from the Progress Party, in which there are many ways of limiting the courts' ability to find the best response both to the issue of minimum penalties, to the question of whether unconditional imprisonment is to be given in any case, and also in this case, where in many ways the safety valve that is actually very important is removed, as the rapporteur explained, namely the possibility of preventing this from becoming rigid rules, so that the courts to the seventh and last turn back to use them. That's what in many ways would be a result. We've seen it in criminal law, too, that you're retiring to use too rigid rules, because the framework has become too tight. I believe that it is not only in conflict with the question of power allocation, but it is in fact also contrary to the wish that a majority of politicians have, namely that the instruments they put in place should have a good effect on them. For the Workers' Party, there is no reason to doubt the ability of the courts to carry out the best possible reactions. I was about to say that then one should rather approach the debate from another team and e.g.. ask yourself how we manage our courts, whether it's a good selection of laymen, and whether they represent a majority of the population, etc. - We have to take it from that side. The second part of the proposal now on the table relates to the question of whether the State should be a kind of guarantor of non-society claims. Once again, I must say that I am very surprised that this comes from the Advancement Party. What kind of state is this? After all, it is a country that is becoming heavy and bureaucratic, and in many ways it is going to go into many types of claims. It is far from the basic principles in relation to the ideas of the Progress Party that such a state should be desired, and it is also far from the idea that we must finally develop arrangements, laws and rules that contribute to the focus of personal responsibility. And now I'm not talking on behalf of the Advancement Party, but on behalf of the Workers' Party. It is also important for us that when people do damage, they have to take the responsibility it brings, and pay compensation, and not expect that there is something the state will always be able to pay out. I believe that if we are going to start discussing solutions that are about the state to advance compensation, we must do so through the way we have already started. We actually have arrangements to take care of the victims who are particularly vulnerable. Victim replacement is a good example of that, and we can expand it that way if possible. However, some general approach to state intervention as a guarantor of claims, we really strongly advise against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e309	Claims may be made when one perpetrator is required to remedy the damage suffered by another perpetrator. So this is a question of whether the person who causes harm should be responsible for his actions and deal with them separately. Penalties shall be imposed in relation to severity, consciousness and carrying ability. So we understand that these are two different things. In the case of compensation, a starting point is the victim's needs, not the country's desire for the distribution of goods and burdens. We in the Progress Party believe that if compensation is the result of a criminal offence, this should be in a special position, especially when this has been done intentionally. We see it as incomprehensible that a liability that has been incurred by a person who has committed a deliberate criminal offence can be relaxed. In fact, we think it is a bit strange that the perpetrator's other relationships should lead to a discount when he has done something intentionally. One may have an understanding of the possibility of relaxation by negligence, but by intention a perpetrator must be able to understand what might occur. We see it as little luck that it is the victim of a deliberate criminal act that must bear part of the financial responsibility of the perpetrator. Should the victim bear the financial loss because the state in the courts wants to give a discount to the criminal? This possible discount should possibly be paid by the State itself, if one considers it so important to feel sorry for the person who has committed the intentional act and caused the damage. The majority is indebted to the perpetrator's possibly damaged ability to pay and to pay, if he had to pay the full compensation. The financial situation of the victim, and any difficulties in its ability to pay due to financial damage, is not so important. Once again, one shows that Norwegian criminal policy is committed to protecting the poor criminal. One sees that practice has been such that non-economic replacement, which in itself is based on an overall judgement, is not relaxed. And that's understandable in itself. Should it have been reduced, one would not have reached an amount in the exercise of discretion, but in the case of the financial compensation, which is based on the calculation of the damage suffered by the victim, it is a bit dramatic that the victim should actually be put in the same situation as if he had not been subjected to a criminal act. So here, the victim has to take a little bit of the load, because after all, it's a perpetrator, a strictly speaking, should take greater account of it. And then finally, it is absolutely right that the Progress Party does not want to adopt a general law without a criminal framework, where the courts are told to judge only as they find best at all times. We want a framework for how we think the judgments should be designed. That is the way the penal code is structured. And then it's probably quite right that we want a slightly tougher and somewhat stricter criminal policy, not least with a clearly higher degree of predictability. I am referring here to the proposal by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e324	The representative, André Kukkestad, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e327	SV's criminal policy includes: based on the principles of prevention, accountability of the offender, care of the victim of the offences committed, and rehabilitation or rehabilitation so that new victims can be avoided, and our society can function as fully as possible. We think it is a great pity that the Progress Party is promoting the kind of proposal like this, which makes it much more difficult to take into account the need for individual differences and individual adaptation, and that people have different starting points. I think it is important to remember the Fafo report on the living conditions of prisoners, which shows that four out of ten prisoners live below the poverty line. That means that very many people who are released from prison, initially have very poor finances, very difficult to deal with and establish a law-abiding life, because it also requires a certain income. At the same time, it means that some victims will never see the spin of the money that they are really entitled to, and that the court has condemned damages to pay. For this reason, we believe from the SV that there is a need for a greater opportunity for relaxation in some cases, in order to ensure rehabilitation simply, and thus to avoid new people being exposed. It is also necessary to review the legislation to see whether the State, for example: may assume responsibility for the payment of damages which are not payable by the injured party, at least not until a long time has elapsed, and that the State will then take over as a creditor in respect of damages. That is why we support the proposal from the Progress Party that we need an investigation into the possibility of better meeting the victims' claims and that they can be guaranteed compensation payments. We do not agree with Knut Storberget's representative, who is very opposed to the state being able to assume this responsibility, because then, like taking responsibility from the individual, damages are deducted from the responsibility to settle. We also see that it is very problematic on the part of the victims that they never see this money. This is actually money that they are entitled to, and on which in many cases they are heavily dependent, among other things. because they have had major problems as a result of criminal activity, or because they also have problems with working capacity, etc. We'd rather consider this pragmatically, here we actually have to take care of the victims' interests. We're not going to take the damage away from the responsibility to settle it afterwards, it's absolutely necessary. But the Progress Party is totally in favour when they say that someone who has committed a criminal act should not be entitled to human treatment, of which society is actually also very interested, because it could lead to a person who has made up for himself and who has made his sentence easier to come back to society. It's quite obvious, we think, that even economic demands that hang over them when they get out, and the fact that they're often in a situation where their economy is very bad makes it harder for them to be brought back to society. If the criminal policy in Norway is to take as a starting point that we are trying to avoid the creation of new victims and to facilitate a prevention line, it is precisely important that people who commit crimes are given the opportunity to be rehabilitated afterwards. It's a challenge for the Progress Party: how do they intend to take care of it, when they categorically reject every opportunity to move forward in life and get settled in a realistic way, by the fact that the requirements are so big that they'll never be able to get out of the bad circle and into the more normal, law-abiding society, or what to call it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e340	It follows from Section 5-2 of the Damage Compensation Act that liability can be reduced if, after a specific assessment of the individual case, the court finds that the liability would be unduly burdensome for the person responsible. The assessment shall take into account the amount of the damage, the financial carrying capacity of the person responsible, the insurance available and the means of insurance, indebtedness and other circumstances. The provision is a safety valve against excessive liability in individual cases. Excessive liability may, in some cases, be detrimental both to the willingness to pay and to the ability to pay, thus adversely affecting the victim. The representatives of Ellingsen and Kvankstad propose in Document No. 8:32 to inculcate damage compensation law § 5-2. They will deprive the courts of the opportunity to relax liability if the basis for compensation is a deliberate criminal offence. Both I and the Christian People's Party support the intention behind the proposal and agree with the proposers that everyone is responsible for their actions. It is important that the measured penalty reflects the impunity of the act. An illegal, punishable act that has been committed intentionally must be clearly and consistently reacted to! However, it is important for me to clarify that liability does not respect the same considerations as the penalty does. The main purpose of financial compensation is to restore the actual loss suffered by the injured party, while the penalty has a preventative purpose and must reflect the seriousness of the action taken. Section 5-2 of the Indemnification Act does not justify a reduction in liability if the person responsible has carried out the act with serious guilt. This applies regardless of whether financial responsibility is very burdensome. The relaxation rule is and must be an exception rule. The practice of the Supreme Court shows that the provision is strictly practised. Among other things, relaxation has been rejected in cases of gross impairment of integrity, which is in line with Storting's intention. It is important, in the view of the Christian People's Party, to maintain the right to have a certain freedom to determine both punishment and compensation in the specific case. The legislator should not set a strict legal framework. If we do that, the result may not be reasonable in the individual case. Christian People's Party does not support the proposal to amend the Damage Compensation Act § 5-2. We believe that the proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e371	I am pleased that the majority, with the exception of the Advancement Party, share a view on the question of the leniency rule of the Compensation Act, which I expressed in my letter to the Judicial Committee on 17 March 2004. The leniency rule is a clear rule of exception, and the practices of the Supreme Court show that the fault of the perpetrator is a serious factor in the disadvantage of the perpetrator in assessing whether liability should be relaxed and in case of how much. In the case of intentional crimes of a type of violence, abuse, injury, etc. this applies even if the responsibility is a heavy burden on the perpetrator. I am insisting that relaxation by law should not definitely be cut off by given case types, and believe that the Supreme Court practice provides a balanced and reasonable legal status. In principle, it seems right that the courts have a right of discretion related to the exceptional use of relaxation, rather than the need for the legislator to disburse the details in an area like this. I also maintain that punishment and compensation partly have different purposes, and that it is wrong to assume that punishment and compensation are equivalent. With regard to the comment of the Advance Party on relaxation, I share the view they express, that it is important for the victim to have his loss replaced, and that account must be taken of the fact that the victim can often be in a weak position. However, I believe that a claim for compensation should, exceptionally, be alleviated according to the reticent criteria that the Supreme Court has drawn up. These criteria precisely ensure that the victim is taken into account, but, after a very concrete assessment, opens up for a limited relaxation where criminal offences are within the picture. I want to maintain that reality is so nuanced that it is important to maintain the specific court order here. With regard to the various arrangements we have to secure the victim, I would just like to make a brief reference to the first system of compensation for the victims of violence, secondly, the recovery by the State of the claim of the victim when it is convicted in criminal proceedings, thirdly, the special compensation scheme supported by statutory insurance for liability for damage caused in motor traffic, professional relations, etc., and, fourthly, the regular insurance company's offer of damages and insurance. Of course, when it comes to the perception of the tasks and responsibilities of the public sector, these vary over time in the different societies, based on basic policy considerations. A country may, by increasing tax and tax funding through a greater state-level detailed control of society’s resources and activities, try to ensure coverage for more losses and offset a number of differences in a different way from today’s social system. In that case, an alternative had to be established, among other things. to maintain a private insurance business financed through insurance premiums which gives rise to differences as to which insurance contracts citizens choose to subscribe. But in my opinion, the state has not been too weak to ensure the claim of the victim of crime in view of how, overall, such demands are secured by different systems in our more social liberal society. I have to add, however, that in the case of the compensation scheme for victims of violence, we will evaluate it, so I am sure it will work as intended. As far as the victim of the violence is concerned, I would like to point out in general that I believe that we do not have sufficient coordination and coordination of the benefits and rights of people who have suffered damage according to our general social welfare system, including: through the fear of the people. I think that is a challenge with regard, among other things, to: diagnosis, which may be complex and complex, that the authorities dealing with it do not often see complexity and complexity and thus do not create a good enough situation for those who are entitled to these existing welfare schemes. It is a problem I have been concerned about before, and which I will pursue in other and natural contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e388	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e392	I just want to clarify in relation to our proposed proposal that this, of course, also applies to the legal text that is here, and that is how we regret that it has not been made clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e397	It was the post of the Workers' Party Knut Storberget that made me ask for the word. I would have liked to have far more than three minutes to come up with some principal points of view. When Knut Storberget chooses to take up some of the fundamental points of view on the relationship between the three state powers, in particular between the courts and the legislator, and he expresses the need to have a framework for the free judgement of the courts, which is, of course, to be judged in individual cases after carrying out the cases where witnessing and other things are coming on the table, and to have confidence in the courts, I would argue that then you have to look at the experience with that. And the experience that we as legislators have from the last 10, 15, 20 years actually shows that there are signs of a serious disagreement, almost conflict, between the courts and the legislator. The legislator is elected by representative democracy, so that if the courts are constantly judging in a way that is not consistent with the people's perception of what should be natural responses, then representative democracy can be the result of choosing a different legislator, or a different set of legislators, to correct the courts. But this distribution of power is such that, through its legislative process, the legislator gives instructions to the courts, including in the case of punishment. A number of criminal provisions have different minimum and maximum penalties laid down by the legislator, which the courts have to abide by. But when the courts, perhaps especially in recent times, have acquired legislative power and openly expressed their interest in it, the legislator must, in my opinion, put down its feet. And we are now in the situation that unanimous judicial committees have stated that the Supreme Court courts are all too often using the lower limit in their criminal evaluation on a number of provisions of criminal law. The Supreme Court has also made it clear that the only way they will listen to the legislator is by changing the legal provisions on punishment. That's what the Progress Party has committed itself to, and we're going to follow up. When the courts have not shown that they really deserve the trust and the free discretion and the broad framework, as also mentioned by the representative of the Christian People's Party, it is the legislator who must respond, in our opinion. Unfortunately, today we have a situation in which the legislator has to far more perform its representative duty to the people, and that is something we take seriously, unlike some others in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e404	I choose to interpret this post from the representative Hagen as a good proof that he has not attended the class when it comes to the issue of the development of Norwegian criminal justice. First of all, I do not believe that there is a great distrust between the population and the courts, or between this legislative assembly and the courts, in terms of punishment in Norway. This is an old record that the Progress Party has actually been running for many years. They just say the same thing over and over again, but it's not going to be any more right for that reason. If one goes into the various offences of which the Progress Party has been particularly concerned, it has just been observed that the Supreme Court has taken particular account of signals from this legislative assembly on the level of penalties, for example: in the case of rape. This is also the reason why the level of penalties, for example: in the case of rape, in the last years, as it were, have doubled. We cannot continue from this pulpit to imagine both the voters and the citizens of the country that everything is the status quo, and that nothing evolves. It's actually so that this has also taken the courts seriously. I think it's just that you've used the opportunity you have to raise the level of punishment, among other things. in the light of political signals and also legislative changes. But when you get within this, I think it's crucial that the courts, right now, at the time we're going into, get the opportunity to choose both the type of reaction and the duration of the reaction, whether it's punishment or compensation. It's strange that there are both co-judges recruited from the Progress Party, and progress party activists out there who may be the most responsive and screaming at the highest level in relation to the question of unfair reactions to individuals. When a 16-17-year-old, for example, have damaged a public building and obtained a massive claim against it, it is precisely people from the Progress Party who react to the injustice and why the claim is not lightened. I believe that the rules should have legitimacy and we have confidence in the rules - we can stand here and talk for a long time about having the highest possible penalties - the question must ultimately be whether these reactions work. Do we get less crime out of it? It must be what's interesting for all of us, not least for the Progress Party, who have made it their fan cause to fight crime. In this way, I feel that when you go into the debate, as the representative Hagen is doing now in relation to whether the courts are sensitive to the politicians, and whether something has happened in relation to the level of penalties, you will also see what is actually happening, and there has been a significant criminal intensification in areas where the Progress Party has been committed to it. In this way, you've got what you've asked for. If the effect comes, it's another thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e415	Let me first challenge Knut Storberget to document his something - I think - very eloquent assertions that the progress party's so-called activists who are involved as playwrights have the point of view that he has. It's easy to throw out such a statement. I look forward to getting names of which courts, persons and judgments are the basis of that claim. Secondly, yes, we are fully aware that there has been a certain movement, but when you start at the extremely low level of punishment, in fact, a double will not mean anything in particular. That's what we see. There's been a certain movement right in the area of rape, but you're almost never in the upper half of the frame of punishment for rape. You're still around the average or in the middle of the frame and below. In terms of penalties, it is clear that longer penalties, especially for the crime of profits committed by repeaters, would have had a renovation effect, especially in relation to people who have committed 40 cabin burglaries and have a total of six months in prison. Had we had our system, where one sentence at a time, they might have been in prison for eight years, and then at least they wouldn't have committed crime in the seven and a half years longer, as they would have been cut off from committing crime. Now they're out after six months, and then there's a new raid with a lot of house and cabin break-in. If you also put some emphasis on what the university calls the renovation effect of being cut off from committing criminal offences, you would get a significant reduction. The police are probably operating on the fact that it's approx. 80 pst. of profit-criminality committed by 20 pst. by the criminals, i.e. the repeaters. Then one would have had a certain effect. Nevertheless, in our view, the courts do not show the necessary understanding and follow-up of clear signals. The representative, Storberget, said that I did not attend the class. I could then be free and answer that I should not assume that Knut Storberget has attended the hour before he entered the class. But I've been in debates here for a long, long time before Knut Storberget came, and then we could document unanimous opinions on criminal evaluation by the Justice Committee that had no effect. In recent times, this has been true in some cases, for example. rapes, have been a certain increase in the level of penalties. But according to what the Norwegian people have shown in many contexts, and as polls have also shown, it is the Progress Party that is in line with the population that wants a significant increase in the criminal response to ordinary crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e428	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e441	Odelstingen then goes to voting in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e448	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e479	There is a different proposal from the Progress Party. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced that they are going against the position. This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The proposal reads as follows: "The second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Article 382 shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e501	It is then voted over the setting. The party of progress, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e529	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e543	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e585	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e595	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e602	In the course of the debate, Mr Kvakkestad, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals: "The ruling asks the Government to investigate mechanisms to better meet the victim's claims and secure compensation payments, in relation to claims where the basis for compensation is a criminal offence." [[Citizen’s legal requirements]] This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02-lower.ana.ud1706e615	Here the Progress Party has an alternative proposal, which reads: "Agreement to the Act amending Law 13 June 1969 No. 26 on compensation for damage II Act of 13 June 1969 No 26 on compensation for damage is amended as follows:§ 5-2 is replaced by the following:§ 5-2. Liability may be reduced where, taking into account the amount of the damage, the financial carrying capacity of the person responsible, the insurance available and the means of insurance, debts and other circumstances, the court considers that the liability is unduly burdensome for the person responsible. [[Leakage of liability]] The same shall apply where it is reasonable in particular that the injured party bears the damage in whole or in part. However, this provision shall not apply if the basis for the compensation is a deliberate criminal offence.
