ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e32	The representative of Arne Sortevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e35	On behalf of the representative Ursula Evje and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions on clarifying the free principle in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e40	The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e43	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, Øystein Djupedal, Inge Ryan, Lena Jensen and myself, I would like to propose a more active policy for increased extraction rate and better use of resources on Norwegian soil, and lower local and global environmental emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e61	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, and the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e72	The Storting Communication on the establishment of a digital television network announces a new era in Norwegian broadcasting history. If everything goes according to plan, from 1 January 2008, Norway will be united into one ‘Television-rich’. From that date, the entire population of the country shall have an offer to receive digital television signals. Digital television broadcasting is by itself nothing new. This is already happening throughout the country via satellite and cable. The new is that digital transmissions from then on will also be available on the traditional transmission network, called the ground network. At the same time, the switch to digital signals means a farewell to the old analogue television technology. Today’s biggest concern is to recognise that the analogue television signals in the ground net can be switched off by the end of 2007. The reason for this is that the only candidate for the digital terrestrial network extension concession, Norway’s Television — abbreviated NTV — has provided an important prerequisite for the termination of analogue broadcasts. This means that there will be no double distribution, i.e. the simultaneous transmission of both analogue and digital signals in the ground network, from that date. This requirement is most understandable and is due above all to the fact that double distribution would be very costly and, in the opinion of the Court, would result in the failure to realise the digital ground network for economic reasons. But the processing of this grossing-up message does not just mean yes to the closing of the analogue television signals. It means at the same time that the Storting gives its assessment of the criteria which should be met before the termination of the analogue broadcasts. I want to get closer to these criteria. But first to the rationale for implementing this important technology shift. The transition to new technology is linked to several aspects. Firstly, the main cultural policy justification: if we still want to focus on what we call general programming in Norway, and want this to be a comprehensive and, above all, nationwide, Norwegian-language television offer, we have hardly any choice. The development of digital terrestrial television proves to be the only alternative that can ensure this at an acceptable price. The alternative would be to extend broadband connectivity to all households in the country, but at a much higher and almost insurmountable cost. An alternative could be to extend the lifetime of today's technology by continuing to transmit on the analogue network. This has been assessed, and the conclusion is that in the case of large-scale rehabilitation of significant parts of the NRK’s transmission network, which are currently over-mature for renewal, would be required. The danger is that this rehabilitation would cost as much as the development of a new digital broadcasting network. In addition, a digital ground network is considered cheaper to operate than a corresponding analogue network, so that the total over time would have increased by sticking to the old platform. In addition to these reasons for a transition to a digital ground-based platform, most countries around us are currently also preparing for a transition to digital ground-based networks. Given that television frequencies are a limited resource, where signals cannot be stopped by borders, it is also necessary that we coordinate our development strategy with the countries around us. For these reasons, analogue television technology today appears to be a «sunset technology». As rapporteur of the case, I am convinced that the majority of the Grand Duchy today makes a wise decision when it gives its support to the process initiated by the Government. I am very pleased that a broad majority ends up with most of the leaders in the position. In particular, I would like to highlight the Workers' Party and the representative Trond Giske, who, despite a different principle, has acted as a clean and responsible counterparty. This made it possible to achieve a majority position that I believe will also be a very good starting point for the Government's further negotiations on the concession. It would be right to take into account that the Stortinget has also previously given its own to the conclusion of the establishment of a digital network. At that time, in the autumn of 1999, Stortinget also concluded an important premise for the development of the new network, namely that it should be financed by the market. In other words, the state should not participate in the financing. This premise shall continue to serve as a basis for the development of the digital ground net. The decision on market-based financing has been a necessary premise for the Committee during the examination also this time. This has not least made it necessary to show due diligence as to the requirements which may and should be imposed on the company to which the concession is awarded. It is easy to imagine that if imposed on too many bonds by the authorities, it could undermine the company's sustainability, which in turn would make it impossible to expand the platform at all. At the same time, this is also a balancing approach to the viewer market, because if the cost of each household becomes too high, the interest in investing in this offer could be weakened rapidly. It is therefore underlined that the one-off cost everyone has to pay from the start, for example. to cover the cost of buying a destination box, mainly not to exceed NOK 1500. I said something about the Stortinget being invited to assess which criteria should be met before the analogue signals are closed. The Government has initially set up six points in the message that it considers must be met. These include: the provision of digital transmissions to the whole population, the need for the transition to represent an added value for viewers, the limited purchase costs of receiver equipment, the need to meet local television needs and the provision of an ‘open channel’. During committee proceedings, the majority, consisting of the government parties and the Workers' Party, have agreed on detailed comments relating to these criteria as well as some additional criteria. These batches have underlined that everyone needs to be offered digital TV, and that at least 95 pst. the population shall be able to capture the signals through the digital groundnet. In the light of the calculations made with regard to the possible coverage, such a objective should be achievable. The remaining part of the population that will not be able to receive broadcasts via the digital ground net is mainly assumed to be covered by satellite receivers. Other criteria that were also added during the talks between the government parties and the Workers' Party are requirements for non-fixed coverage, such as in larger cabin areas, along the coast and for mobile reception along the main trajectories. Prerequisites for the organisation of local television networks and opportunities for voluntary organisations, life-vision channels and other non-commercial activities to be effectively released into the ground network were also underlined by the majority. Space in the digital ground network should also be provided for the dissemination of knowledge from e.g. universities and higher education institutions. At a time when commercial forces dominate the media image, it will be of great importance for these batches to ensure that channels represent a counterweight. However, non-commercial organisations and companies will find it difficult to compete on a level playing field with commercial channels. It is therefore important that this be included in the assessment when granting the concession. It is therefore appropriate to facilitate the distribution of the non-commercial programme offer at an affordable cost to the actors. As I said, I am pleased with the Workers' Party's support for the implementation of the digital ground net on the premises mentioned. I am also pleased that the Central Party has joined our remarks, as well as that the Socialist Left Party has also entered into parts of them, even though the party also promotes divergent proposals on some points. On a few points I noticed that SV has made some of our majority comments and put them in the form of proposals. The progress party is, on its side, the only party that opposes the development of a digital ground network. However, it must be admitted that it has been a little difficult to see what is the alternative of the Progress Party, in addition to the fact that they are opposed to the whole development of a digital ground network, but at the same time are strongly in favour of local television stations and life-vision stations. It's hard to see how this can relate. As mentioned above, there are significant shortcomings in current television coverage in Norway. Above all, it's all distorted. A significant proportion of the population cannot include the NRK2 programmes, and many do not include TV2 programmes. With the transition to the new digital age also via the ground-level platform, all households will be able to take in all Norwegian public television channels and probably much more. The transition to digital technology thus represents a significant reform affecting the vast majority of people in this country. It has therefore been imperative to stress that this must be a solution that proves to be at the best of the whole community. This principle is based on the whole public broadcasting policy and it is highly desirable that this should be included in the new digital television reality. This should be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e112	Let me first thank you for the nice words of the case rapporteur and return them to say that there has been a good cooperation. It is nice to receive praise from the Christian People's Party. I don't know if it's settled with Bondevik and Hojbråtten, here's a little bit of other adjectives used by day. At least we have had constructive cooperation, as is most often the case in our committee with the government parties. This is an important matter. It's an important business policy issue. It's an important cultural policy issue. It's an important matter of transportation. It's a matter that affects a lot of different issues, but first and foremost we've seen it as a cultural policy matter. It is about whether the whole country is going to participate in future TV developments, it is about our public broadcasters, it is about what the TV offer and these TV stations are going to contribute to, namely the further national construction and development of our culture, the dissemination of knowledge, insight and societal debate, and thereby the broadcasting has an important cultural policy role. The question of a digital network has a long history. We in the Workers' Party would have preferred that such an important infrastructure should also have been publicly developed and publicly owned. It is not unproblematic that the main content providers also control the distribution network. It would have been an advantage if that type of infrastructure were owned by the community. In this way, content providers could – with certain guidelines at the bottom – use the common distribution system in competition with each other. However, we have seen that the process has come too far. The history here in the house, previous comments and decisions suggest that now is the time to draw a conclusion and build a digital ground. Nevertheless, we are pleased that we have received a majority view that the interests of the Community must be safeguarded. There are ways to do it, even though it is not the public itself that is the builder and the owner. The concession process has given one actor who is willing to deploy a digital ground network. We're invited in Stortinget, as I see it, to take a stand for two things. One is to give our connection to a digital ground plane, and the other, which is not immaterial, is to give our consent to deflecting the analogue ground net. Our conclusion in both questions is – yes. It is necessary to enter the digital age. It is necessary to build a digital ground network. It is not least the question of whether the whole country should participate in the digital ground net, because digital television will reach many in Norway no matter what we decide in the Stortinget. What we are invited to participate in is an action to ensure that everyone receives an offer of the future TV technology. The second question, if we're going to wind up the analogue ground net, we also say yes to it. There is no doubt that if a digital ground network is to have a bottom-up profitability, and the NRK and TV 2 have an economy that is sound, there can be no double distribution, as the rapporteur said. It is produced from time to time so that the digital groundnet is very expensive and that the continuation of the analogue transmission network will be free of charge. It's not like that. There are significant costs, perhaps at least equal costs, of maintaining the analogue network as building a new digital ground network, if you look at the maintenance and operation of the masts and transmitter equipment. When, in addition, a digital ground network will provide large sections of the population with an offer of NRK2, which they do not have today, it was clear that our conclusion was a connection to both digital ground and to resolving the analogue. Then there are questions about whether we in Stortinget have the opportunity to make additional demands. I have seen that it is debated whether it is legally sound that the Stortinget can make additional demands after the concession has been announced. What we can at least lay down the conditions, as I see it, is cultural policy considerations, which should be taken care of, in order to be able to participate in the liquidation of the analogue network. Then, of course, those who consider expanding the digital ground net, see if they are sound, and if you can sign a contract with the Ministry of Culture for the development of the digital groundnet with that background. But if we don't get our requirements met, then I think that once again we have to question whether the analogue network can be closed, because it is the security of a general broadcasting service with regard to the cultural policy objectives that our demands contain, which are essential to us, and then we also have to make sure that these are achieved. One of our most important requirements is the coverage. We mean 95 pst. the country should be covered. In addition, we have a note on the areas where it is not so densely populated, but where there is a large cabin, where there are main traffic trails, etc. One of the arguments for a digital ground net has just been that you can receive it from mobile devices. Our second requirement is related to inbound broadband. There is no doubt that when operating these masts, there may also be a significantly more reasonable amount of transmitters that can offer in-depth broadband coverage in areas of the country that may have to wait many years before satisfactory fibre coverage. We believe that this needs to be seen in the context, and that is also a majority point of view. We also believe that one should look at the possibility of a return channel. Most of us do not need private households for outgoing broadband, but corporations and public institutions etc. will need it. It is important for the whole country to take part in it, and the digital ground net should also be used in that context. Then we have requirements for the content of what's going to be distributed on the digital ground net. Of course, a key requirement from us is that the public broadcasters are there – that was also in the assumptions – but also that TV 2 is there as a free offer for as long as the current concession period that TV 2 has lasts. It is clear that the digital groundline opens up payment systems other than advertising. The analogue network does not have that possibility. So it's our decisions here now that actually make payment systems work. It is then important that it is a prerequisite — at least during the period of the analogue concession, i.e. until 2009 — for TV 2 to be a free offer for the population. Local TV is important to get space. Then we've also underlined it with knowledge dissemination. For universities and colleges there is a great opportunity to disseminate knowledge, to conduct distance learning, etc. by means of broadcasting technology. It is important to make room for, and then in a way that does not become animal for those who want to disseminate knowledge. An open channel is also a prerequisite. It's important that it's not just non-commercial. It must be that it is not only the economically strong organisations, or those involved in the collection of money and the kind of things in their circulation, that are able to use it, but that it becomes a real opportunity – with a real autonomy, unbureaucratic and cheap – for organisations to communicate directly with their members and other interested parties. We should also have wanted space for the Nordic public broadcasters. We would have liked to see closer cooperation between the Nordic countries. The old dream of NORSAT and the possibility of Nordic broadcasting of public broadcasters have come a significant step closer through a digital network. We hope the department can look at that in more detail. The costs have been a significant issue in the discussion on digital ground. We are not so concerned about the cost of developing the web itself. It has proved to be far more reasonable than initially foreseen, and it should also indicate that the coverage now assumed by the Storting should be achievable for the builders. On the other hand, there can be a significant cost for households. Here it is important that the builder put up systems that allow these different boxes first to become as technologically advanced as possible, and thereby also reasonable, often with multi-channel functions, etc., so that unreasonable costs are not passed on to households. We've thought it's right and important that you have the encryption technology and the common technology system on these boxes that makes us get into such a quantity that a low price can be guaranteed. It must also be such a flexibility in pricing that one can, for example, use. can get the boxes free of charge from paying a small amount over a few months or years. There will be enough competition between NTV and the other distributors of digital TV signals when introduced. With regard to SV's proposal, which is largely based on what we have said in common notes, I hope that the Council of State in its statement will clarify that this is the agreement. I then consider it absolutely unnecessary to vote on those proposals here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e146	Right-wing support under given conditions The Government's proposal that we switch from analogue broadcasts to digital TV – distributed over the ground. This means, among other things: the analogue consignments will be discontinued by the end of 2007. First of all, we do this because we see that a digitally based system will form the basis for a better offer to the audience. The switch to digital signals will allow technological developments to take another step forward. This will enhance TV service provision in key areas, will significantly improve channel provision, and the quality of broadcasting will improve. A current example is the coverage of NRK2. We have many times washed our hands over the fact that many licensors in our country have either not received this channel, or what they have received has been so bad that it has not been possible to follow in the programs. With the digital ground net, this problem will be history. NRK2 and other channels that do not reach all viewers today will be distributed to the same extent and with the same quality as the public broadcasters. Another perspective is that, through this transition, we also provide the basis for new important technological developments. Convergence between the media will speed up, new technological solutions will be developed, and more services and other products we come. The TV stations, with public broadcasters at their head, are the deciduous largest nationally anchored providers of live images. The fact that this content, through digitisation, can communicate with the Internet and perhaps also with mobile phones, opens up new major perspectives for a comprehensive Norwegian content industry. The implementation of the digitalisation of TV is thus not only a matter for the TV product itself, but also an important factor for the technological environments in Norway, and for the emerging part of the economy. The possible broadband-like solutions that can also be connected in this context are important examples of this. In the process towards this decision, the digital groundnet has often been set up against other technological platforms, such as broadband and satellite distribution. From the point of view of the Right, it seems clear that the choice we are now making for TV does not mean a final choice for which technologies will be in place in the future in the distribution of digital signals in our country. This is not something either – or, but rather, a boat – and. Regardless of our choice in this matter, the different platforms will live next to each other. In the coming years, they will compete against different interfaces, such as capacity, cost, dissemination and security. When we've landed on the digital ground net, it's also because this allows a switch to digital signals within an acceptable economic framework. The main test for most projects is if someone wants implementation so strongly that they are willing to use their own funds to get it done. This is the case here. The NRK and TV 2 have seen the transition to digitally based signals as so important for the development of their businesses, that they have actually wanted to invest money and other resources to get this into. This has been done by the company Norges Television AS, which was the only candidate for the digital ground network concession. The government parties and the Workers' Party are well aware that the digital ground network can become a marginal project economically. Therefore, these batches have stressed that the assumptions of the Stortingen now make for the project must not be such as to undermine the economic sustainability of the project. A poorly thought out solution, which may not work on the assumption, will no one be worthy of. This is not a matter that can be turned on when everything is started. When the Right now supports the Government's proposal to establish the digital ground net, it is, as I said, under several clear assumptions, for which it is now a majority. The right here is satisfied with the agreement reached between the government parties and the Workers' Party. First of all, it's a clear assumption that the digital ground net actually provides coverage across the country. A coverage rate of 95 is suggested by the majority. The remaining users need to be reached through specially adapted solutions. An important point in this context is also that, unlike cable-based solutions, through the digital ground network, it must be possible to reach cars and reach the cab areas. Another requirement is for the public to have access to multiple channels. Therefore, the right-hand side assumes that from the start the capacity of the installation must provide a basis for more channels than is normally available in today’s analogue distribution. Here, in particular, the emphasis of the right will be on the fact that the digital groundnet does not have an exclusive effect on smaller players in the TV market. Local TV, life-vision channels and open public channel spaces must therefore be backed up by technical solutions from the very beginning. The right is in this case, which is otherwise, concerned that we should have a real competition in the distribution. It has been asked by some teams whether it is problematic that the two largest players in the market actually also own the distribution channel. The right has stressed here the assessments and conclusions of the competition authorities. The frameworks set by the digital groundnet concession are considered satisfactory by them, so that they would have been seen as favourable if they had also involved a non-supplier owner on the content page. For the right-hand side, there are also other perspectives that apply here. Firstly, the largest of the two owners, NRK, is a state-owned company under official control. Secondly, there is an open and transparent facility on the ground, where, in retrospect, it will be easy to follow developments. With regard to the requirements of the concession, the right considers that there is little risk of undesirable governance and distortion of competition. As things stand today, the digital groundnet seems to intensify competition rather than weaken it. With the transmission capacities we're talking about here, more channels will reach the entire population and, on similar terms, compete for the viewers. The digital groundnet will also be considered as a technological platform in competition with broadband solutions or satellites. The right considers that the introduction of the digital ground network has ensured the necessary competitive considerations and that in many respects this will result in increased competition between media companies. Some people have been worried that we have a private actor here. I would point out that the company NTV is going to run is something more than just being the manager of a cable house. There are actual products to be developed. An active acquisition of foreign channels shall be operated to meet a greater need. Today, we do not ignore what new products and opportunities the digital ground net will provide. It's clear to us that it's important that NTV appears to be a dynamic and active actor in order to maximise the benefits of the opportunities that we're now creating, actually provide. All of this suggests that having a private actor in this context is a proper grip. A private actor will be more offensive in the work that I have now outlined, and I think we will all be served with that. The right notes that, under slightly different assumptions, all batches, except the Advance Party, join a switch to TV distribution over the digital ground network and that the analogue signals are phased out by the end of 2007. Right is pleased with the broad consensus expressed by this, and believes that the transition will benefit the public and the media activities in our country in general. The working party stressed that it would be possible to impose additional requirements in addition to those originally imposed by the concession. It could be. There's a lot of juice in it that I don't think I can go into. But I would also like to stress that the Workers' Party has had a great awareness of it that it is actually also an economy that must be able to go up in this image. That's a point for us that we're actually getting this to. This is not a project that is just in the interests of the developers and the TV companies. It's actually also in the general interest of society that this happens. So it's important that we all add the broad side to get this. I am happy on behalf of the Right and on behalf of everyone that we are now laying the groundwork for the digital ground net to become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e188	Like what I have the feeling that the president is struggling with today, I'm struggling with a very sore throat. If I get any coughing problems during the post, the president will excuse me.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e193	You're going to be forgiven.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e196	Most people have probably come to realize that the Progress Party is the only party that says clearly no to the project that is being facilitated in this case. There are three main reasons why we're skeptical about expanding a digital television network. These are technological concerns, economic concerns and competition policy concerns. Let me start by taking up the technological concerns. Actually, politicians should stay away from thinking about technological developments. We can't do that much. But the political system is that we're going to think something about this, so then we're going to give our opinion. The Progress Party does not believe that digital ground nets are technologies that we should invest in in future Norway. We want a rich TV offer with many channels and a lot of freedom of choice. The technology underlying the digital earthset is limited in terms of space and possibilities. We believe that a country such as Norway, such as Norway, plans to become a leader in high technology, should focus on broadband solutions. With a proper expansion, this could give a very high number of channels with a good quality. The satellite is also a good opportunity to give a great offer to the TV titties. Some say, of course, that due to Norway's geographical situation, with many valley guides, etc., it is very difficult to bet on satellite and cable. But these are problems like companies, like... Local Digital, already solved. We also know that a large and growing part of the Norwegian population is connected to the existing cable and satellite networks, and that for them it is an excellent technology, which will also have broadband solutions in the future. In many places, this is already in place. The main criticism of the digital groundnet is, among other things, that it has great limitations in relation to what we call interactive or return channels. This means that a digital ground network can contribute to a small amount of development in broadband. With regard to the economy, the Progress Party is concerned about the cost of charging over one third of all Norwegian households many thousand kroner in so-called ‘set-top’ boxes. That's not how it was in the old days, that each household had one TV maximum. Many households have both two and three TVs. Expenditures of NOK 4000 to NOK 5000 are not unlikely. This might be a low estimate. There is also another economic concern about the development of digital ground. This applies to the development costs themselves. Around Europe, several countries have tried to expand the digital network and have faced major economic problems. It seems to be difficult to identify places where development has been a success. Some places have even gone bankrupt. We fear that some years into development we will see that the builders present a large extra bill to the taxpayers, either through direct treatment in the Stortinget or through a substantial increase in the license to the NRK. Alternatively, we fear that the expansion will be greatly reduced, for example: for one or two channel packets. Our third main concern concerns the points of view of competition policy. We fear that TV 2 and NRK will have a far too dominant position with consumers. In the case of almost one third of the market, Bernander and Valebrokk will be able to control the development and other providers entering the network. They will also be able to provide benefits to their own channels and products through electronic programme guides and through price policy. The Progress Party strongly wants competition and freedom of choice for consumers. We fear that the digital ground net will lead to the opposite. As you can see from the vote, the Progress Party has four proposals in this case. Proposal No. 1, which we are promoting together with the Socialist Left, is a proposal that will allow for simpler and cheaper conversion for those who do not want their own set-top boxes. If the Storting does not adopt this proposal, we fear that we will allow for excessive costs for individual households – imposed by coercion. Our other proposal is based on the concerns of local television stations and live television stations, in particular the Christian television stations. We have recorded that the bulk of the population is talking about a so-called open channel in which non-governmental organisations, life-vision organisations and other non-commercial activities are to be allocated transmission time on reasonable terms. We fear that such an ‘open channel’ will help push out local television and Christian TV stations. We therefore believe that 'open channel' should not be given priority. Instead, we should make it clear that we are giving priority to local television stations and live television stations. If the local television stations and Christian broadcasts are not prioritised in the first channel package, we think they will die very abruptly. Our third proposal concerns exemptions from broadcasting fees. The proposal simply says that those who do not take in the NRK should also not pay compulsory subscriptions to the state channel. Our proposal No. 4 is central to the views of the Progress Party in this matter, namely that no concession is granted for the construction and operation of a nationwide and user-funded digital network. This is fully explained in my statement and in the comments made by the two members of the Committee of the Progressive Party. The rapporteur was somewhat uncertain about what the Progress Party thought when we first had the view that we should not build a digital network, but at the same time had some concrete suggestions in this matter. It's actually so that we can read the views of the other parties. We know that we are not going to have a majority for our primary proposal, and that is why we want to put forward proposals No. 1-3 to minimise the damage caused by the decision to be taken, to minimise the damage to TV users, to local TV, to Christian TV stations and to broadcasters. With this, I would like to address the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter, as well as the proposal we have together with the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e240	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e243	In previous rounds about this case SV has been against. We've been against the technological solution, and we've been against the ownership model. In terms of technological solutions, we have changed our vision, on the grounds that we now see the ground-ground as a necessary complement to the digital infrastructure in Norway, no matter what kind of solutions we choose, and not, as case-rapporteur Ola T. Lånke said, assuming that we could have chosen to build broadband and covered it that way, but that it would be too expensive. We're not afraid that it would be too expensive. Those who are now working on the ground net notification have been informed that the full expansion of the ground will have a price tag of NOK 3 billion. There is no price I will go well for, but within such a framework there would have been no problem for us to support such a development. What has been a very important argument for us is the coverage of mobile devices, which we are totally dependent on in Norway. And with the technology that's known per. Today, it's just the digital ground net that's capable of handling it. Of course, in SV we have never doubted that the next stage of development for TV and TV distribution is digital. We've been in doubt if the time was ripe, and if the technology was ready. Now we've concluded that the time is probably in. But we are aware that many professionals already mention the solution proposed as yesterday's technology. Some of the problem of getting information about these issues is that industry and professionals express themselves and conclude far different. They're all equally oblique. It is also difficult for us to distinguish what is professional insight and advice based on our own economic and strategic interests, and one that is purely technological. This makes it problematic to be sure of the decisions we make. But in this context, we have now concluded with the thumb up to the digital ground, sail if we see that the possibility of ending up with a work finger can be present in the future. So to ownership. The last time we discussed the issue was when dealing with the so-called media communication – about media policy objectives and instruments. Then we said the following: ‘These members are very sceptical of the new role NRK and TV2 is working against as distributors of the digital ground network through the newly launched company Norges Television AS. In principle, this is a role which is not desirable for public broadcasters, who have a clear mandate to be a content producer and not a distributor.’ We still believe that. We stand alone in these points of view. I must say I am surprised that at least the Workers' Party does not support these views, not least as a basic principle for the distribution of ether media. Then to a more serious matter. The majority support the development and operation of digital ground network and say it should be market-based. In SV we believe that this is not desirable. We believe that this type of national infrastructure should be under the control of the State. I was delighted when I saw that the Workers' Party had now come to the same thoughts, but they disappeared just as quickly as they came. It reminds me a little bit of when, as a boy on Gol, on the platform at the station, I published a wallet of late at one end. As soon as someone bent down to take the wallet, we moved quickly. Just as soon the idea of state ownership of the Workers' Party disappeared! In parallel with the treatment of the ground net, the treatment of St. reported occurs. No 49 for 2002–2003 on broadband in another Stortinget Committee. That these two matters are not viewed and dealt with in the context, we believe in SV is very unfortunate. Both are important elements of our future digital infrastructure. NTV, which is the only candidate for the concession, also indicates that it is urgent to get on the track before larger parts of the market are eaten by other commercial companies that are involved in the distribution via satellite or networks. There is little doubt that competition in this market will now increase, and the price of all operators is likely to be pushed downwards when the ground net is fully developed. Of course, there are other important factors for the owners by controlling such a network than direct profits in dollars, but I will not be surprised if NTV does not become a commercial success in the short term. Nor will I be surprised if the Stortinget will be presented in a few years' time for the desire for new and changed framework conditions or the desire for forms of economic stimulus. Do we already know in Valebrok's statements how to prepare for pay-TV for TV 2? Is it more than me that will not be shocked if we are presented for an increasing annual fee in addition to the license? We believe it is important that all those currently receiving NRK1 – in practice throughout the country – now have access to digital broadcasts and are aware that different technological solutions need to be used to achieve these objectives. For us in SV, it is essential that the offer is available at an affordable price. The technological solution is subordinate to us, but those who are granted a concession for the development of the network must be responsible for improving the quality of the offer for those who currently have access to NRK1. We therefore, of course, support the proposal that the ground net should be built for 95 pst. coverage. Of course, we are aware that a commercial builder of the ground net sees the possibilities of digitisation providing for different types of sales of services and products. The more advanced set-top boxes, the larger the possibilities. In this sense, it is understandable that a commercial company is not interested in delivering the simplest solution, which I know is a simple converter that does nothing but change digital signals to analogues. For consumers who have no desire for ancillary services other than this, this would be a straightforward and inexpensive solution. From the industry team it is only suggested that it is approx. 1/3 of the price of the set-top boxes previously suggested by NTV. For us in SV, this is an important point as we believe it is regrettable that people who have analogue signals with antennas today do not want any other choice, but are forced to purchase equipment that makes digital reception possible. Everything that makes this cheaper for most people, will get SV's support. At the same time, we agree and understand that broadcasting is non-sensical by analogy and digital means over a long period of time, although it might have been desirable to assess the natural phasing-out of analogue signals as digital TV receivers now establish themselves on the market. The price of these to consumers is likely to fall dramatically after a few years and this will reduce consumers’ need for investment in converters and set-top boxes. Worse, I think it's that it's so quiet about other consequences of digitisation. TV 2 has more than suggested that they would have to have the same competitive conditions as the other commercial channels that are communicated in the ground network. What does that mean? Does that mean the same rules as TV3? Will introduce ground-net means release of e.g. advertising aimed at children, political advertising, advertising of medicines, alcohol, etc.? So far, I do not think we have received reassuring answers to these questions. Is there anyone in the political landscape who doesn't want to focus on this? We therefore make concrete proposals on driving rules for advertising in the digital ground net. It will be exciting to see which parties support these proposals here today or what reasons they have to vote against them. We also know that digitisation and, in the long term, the ability to respond from users etc. provide completely new opportunities for monitoring and recording viewing habits and consumer patterns. The possibilities in this context must be assessed and checked. Therefore, we also propose that the Government should ensure that the Data Protection Authority has an active role in terms of privacy and unwanted information retrieval. It is important for the Ministry to develop criteria for editorial responsibility, for quality requirements and for who will be sent on the network at what times, etc. We believe it is important for as many viewers as possible to facilitate local TV and an open-channel solution, and for the university and higher education sectors to provide space for the dissemination of subjects and research to people most as part of and continuation of our Nordic information tradition. Similarly, it should be possible for most in Norway to accept the other Nordic general programmes. I take up the suggestions we are making in the vote and ask for an explanation of vote immediately. We want to draw the proposals No. 7 and 8 with the justification suggested by the rapporteur in the past would make the proposals superfluous. I would also like to inform you that we ask for it to be voted in such a way that our proposals are taken up first. If they are then voted down, we will inform you that we will vote in a subsidiary way for the recommendation of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e290	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e294	The centre party supports St.meld. No 44 on digital television ground nets. It is positive that there will now be a lot more that will get a better and wider TV offer at a relatively low price. About 600,000 households today rely only on television reception via analogue stationers. These will now be able to offer a much better supply. Today, only NRK1 and TV 2 have nearly nationwide distribution via ground-based alone. During the digitisation of the ground-net, the Centre Party argued that those who do not currently receive NRK2 are given priority first, so that everyone can also access this channel. When Stortinget in time said yes that the NRK would have a so-called download channel, it underlined the plurality of the responsibility that NRK had when it dared to ensure more viewers access to NRK2. Many people have pointed out that the license is the same as either you have access to the NRK2 or not. By digitizing the ground net, we're going to have a much fairer system than we've had before. The centre party argued that the entire population should still have access to the existing public broadcasters. It is important to stress that capacity should be allocated to an open channel to provide voluntary organisations, life-vision organisations and other non-commercial activities with a reasonable transmission time. Similarly, I would like to point out that one should reserve capacity in the ground network for knowledge dissemination from e.g. colleges and universities. What we have today is a huge cost for both maintenance and investment in the next few years. It is a socio-economic benefit to bet on digitisation rather than using money on the analogue network. On the termination of the analogue ground network, many viewers will receive a one-time fee for the purchase of the receiver. Many will probably see this as untimely and as an extra economic tax in relation to the annual licence. I would like to stress that it is a challenge to provide user support and information in connection with the transition, so that most people get the help and guidance they need both in my opinion and in their needs. Broadband expansion is another big area we're facing. It is positive that the majority have pointed out that the development of digital ground is seen in conjunction with the provision of wireless broadband in those parts of the country where it will not pay off, or take a very long time, to expand other services. Setting aside space for wireless broadband equipment in these areas could strengthen the economy in its expansion and also contribute to increasing coverage. It is with wonder I record that only SV has supported the comments of the Center Party on the seagoing fishing fleet. The digitisation will allow the seagoing fishing fleet to re-enter digital radio and television signals in areas where this has fallen away. About 6,000 professional fishermen who are away from the world for up to nine weeks will thus gain better quality of life through the receipt of information, news and entertainment from the Norwegian community. I would also like to point out text TV, which is used for updating the weather at sea and other relevant information related to maritime safety. The media has been changing rapidly since the mid-1990s. We've got the Internet, broadband networks, digital TV and mobile phones. Today, the majority say yes to modernizing the television network in Norway. If the new digital media are to be perceived as important improvements, they must be filled with content. The development of a nationwide digital TV network allows Norwegian public channels to become a real locomotive for media development. The centre party hopes that once analogue TV broadcasts are switched off, the Norwegian public channels will deploy resources to develop forward-looking digital TV programmes and services. On the question of why the ground is grounded, NTV has given the following answers: Firstly, NTV will be a national home protection for Norwegian languages and culture by not distanced the public sectorcasters from commercial foreign competitors. And secondly, NTV will be a bridge builder over the digital divide in society between those who have access to everything, and the million inhabitants who only have NRK, TV 2 and TVNorway. That's good! The centre party fully supports this self-imposed role from NTV. Finally, I want NTV to be happy. So a little explanation of vote: the centre party will support proposal No. 9, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e324	On behalf of the Coastal Party, I would like to thank the majority in this Chamber for expanding and improving our national television, radio and telecommunications systems. It is very regrettable that the Progress Party is voting against progress in this important area. The party again demonstrates its belief that the market is doing everything without politicians having to interfere. It is clear that the Progress Party has not realised that the market is not functioning in providing people across the country with an equivalent offer of telecommunications services. With its vote, the Progress Party also points out that the party is in practice willing to prevent it from becoming its own channel for Christian TV that reaches out to the whole people. Since the big business report presented by the Ministry of Culture has some shortcomings, it was important to organise a seminar here at Stortinget. There we took up what can be called a paradigm shift in telecommunications. Unfortunately, there were only two large-scale representatives who met at this seminar. A nationally controlled digital ground network is in a hurry to get started. If it hadn't been adopted in this round, we would have been standing with the nislua in the hands of an analogue rock age. The most serious thing would have been that we had lost control of our ether, and that others had taken over. The Coastal Party is very concerned that we take care of our legacy silver – our country and our culture. It is therefore a weakness in the big message that we should correct. According to the notification, only 434 of the 2740 masts currently used by the NRK are to be used and the transmitters are to be significantly weaker than those used today. That makes that barely 90 pst., and not 92 pst., of the population can accept grounded TV. The rest of the population should hopefully be able to get the same delivery via satellite. But here there will be restrictions on interactive services. Even worse is that large geographical areas – 40 pst. of our land area – not covered by the proposed digital hillsides. These blank spots will remain uncovered, because it won't be economically interesting to expand them. This will have major negative effects on businesses, tourists, sports, emergency work and defence. I would therefore suggest that Stortinget ask NTV to provide a budget for what it will cost to build out so that 100 pst. by the country, including the whole coast, accessing the digital groundnet. At a later stage, we have to determine how important this coverage is, and how willing we are to grant the money this will cost. I therefore support the position that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e341	Most of it is now said in this case, and I am very pleased that St.meld. No 44 on digital ground network has such a large majority behind it. There have been many speculations as to whether there is something that will speed up the development of broadband in the country. I can't see that digital grounding is a competitor of broadband. On the contrary, the network can be used to offer broadband in some areas where it will not be profitable to build, or it will take a very long time to develop broadband. We know that there are a lot of people around the country who can't take NRK2. It creates anger and frustration. Yes, even those who have filed an action against the NRK because they believe they pay for a product they are not getting delivered because they live in District Norway, while viewers in built-in strips get more money back for the money they pay under license. Norway is a country where all types of traffic pose major challenges due to geography. Nevertheless, we want to use the whole country as a labour market, and then it is important that the technological services are available. Only in my municipality do we have an NSB centre and a taxi station. The taxi centre is located in Sulitjelma, and this can be done because of the offer of technology, in this case broadband. At the same time, districts should also be able to have well-developed TV relationships. That's one of the reasons why the majority now chooses to go over to the digital ground and phase out the old analogue network that it had cost well over $1 billion to rust up over a 15-year period. I have lived in Sulitjelma, a place where we only got NRK and TV 2 on the TV screen. What did we do when we wanted to see other channels? Well, then we bought the satellite antenna. It was not cheap – and it is not cheap with annual fees and rental of cards to get out of the world via the screen. That is why I believe that these costs need to be seen in the context of what you might have to pay for a decoder in connection with a switch to digital ground. But I agree that it will be a challenge to tell viewers that, in addition to the license, they need to acquire a box for about NOK 1500 if they are to be able to watch TV at all. I still think that this is the right bet. We know that there are viewers in places that can't even capture the signals through a satellite antenna, and there I think the digital groundnet can at least help someone. With strong signals via TV-masters from mountain peaks, I think this problem will be smaller. But we're not going to ignore that there's still someone in the satellite shadow, and there it has to be invested in extra masters. The majority therefore assumes that the ministry assesses the possibilities of imposing NTV concession conditions that ensure a slightly higher coverage than the initially outlined coverage. At least 95 pst. the population shall be able to pick up the signals. The Labour Party believes that, in the foreseeable future, there will be no alternative to the ground network to ensure full coverage of television. It is therefore important that all actors can now see the opportunities to cooperate for the benefit of TV viewers across the country, and not least for PC users and businesses. Other countries with which it is natural to compare are well under way, and it is for old Norway to go upright with the front into the future. Norway is and shall be a knowledge-based society, and the digital ground-based network offers great opportunities for knowledge dissemination if capacity in ground-based networks is reserved for university and university dissemination. I would like to welcome the digitally grounded and assume that the Government will ensure that all users receive equivalent treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e360	I am very pleased that a broad majority in the Committee have gathered on the main proposals in the message. This means that Norway can become one of the first countries in the world to digitalize the television media. For me, it is important to ensure a stable and long-term framework for public broadcasting in Norway. There is a broad consensus that television should be a good thing that reaches out to the whole people, and that public broadcasters should have nationwide broadcasts. National television broadcasts are not possible without some kind of backend transmitters. The existing analogue groundnet has reached an age that makes it necessary to replace and upgrade large parts of the network. It will cost about as much as establishing a digital ground. But a digital ground will provide multiple capacity and open up for new services that the analogue network cannot provide. This will result in a greater lack of channels and lead to stronger competition both on the content page and in cable and satellite relations. Opening for a digital background is therefore a forward-looking option. In all countries that have invested in the expansion of digital ground, the extinguishing of analogue signals has become a pressing problem. The European Commission has a project to promote the transition to digital broadcasting. The fraction of the gain by switching to digital distribution comes when the analogue network is discontinued. In a small country such as Norway, a market-based expansion has led to a controlled and relatively rapid closure of the analogue network. This loads on viewers in terms of costs of upgrading recipient equipment. I, like the Committee, am busy seeing this as an investment in a new and better television offer. The message sets a range of criteria that must be met in order for the state to accept the termination of analogue broadcasts. the provision of a digital television signal to the whole population and the need to provide added value to digital television. In addition, the public shall have real access to reception and technical assistance at a limited cost. The different criteria shall form the basis for the concession terms of the digital ground net. The concession will not be granted if the concessionaire does not accept these criteria. Analogous transmissions will not be decommissioned until all criteria are met — local, regional or national. A multiple of the committee assumes that at least 95 pst. shall be capable of receiving signals from the digital groundnet. I will use this arrangement as a basis for granting the concession. The majority of the Committee agrees that capacity should be set to an open channel. The majority also believe that capacity should be reserved for the dissemination of knowledge from e.g. colleges and universities. It is natural to announce an open channel concession as soon as a digital ground network concession has been granted, and the department will start preparing it immediately. I would also like to examine how the Internet can be used to disseminate knowledge from universities. I have noticed that the majority are concerned that public broadcasting does not have to be weakened after the establishment of the digital ground network. The majority believe that TV 2 has to be secured as free provision at least as long as the analogue concession period lasts. I'm going to base this clear commitment on the work, but I'm going to make it clear that this can only apply to TV 2's main channel, and that there is a condition that belongs at home in a digital broadcasting concession for TV 2 and not in the concession terms of NTV. I refer to the Committee's emphasis on the importance of good information and comprehensive free customer support in the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting. The majority also believe that the department must have its seat in order to make demands for user involvement when it comes to the composition of channels in the network. I agree that this is important consideration. Of course, I have to do what I can to follow this up, but for the sake of order, I would remind you that the EEA Agreement sets limits on what conditions the State can impose in addition to the conditions that were directly imposed by the notice of the concession and the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e383	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e386	I am pleased that, as far as I heard, the Council of State clarified most of our questions regarding the majority comments that SV has made on proposals. It should again stress that those proposals should be able to be transformed into transmission proposals. I have a question about it with TV 2 as a free channel. I agree with the Council of State that this is about TV 2's concession and not about NTV's concession. But I want the Council of State to make it clear that that question must be settled before NTV is granted a concession. My second question concerns the rules of distribution. SV's proposal, No. 9, is about the applicable laws and regulations in the area of advertising, and also a number of different advertisements that are prohibited – I would also like to add political TV advertising. It will, of course, be a prerequisite for the operation of NTVs to comply with the legislation. Finally, with regard to the other commercial broadcasters that are now given nationwide opportunities: Will the Ministry look at the possibility of also setting public broadcasting requirements for these commercial Norwegian channels?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e402	With regard to the reference made by the representative to the proposals put forward by SV – multi-stakeholder comments that have been turned into proposals – they have been converted into transmission proposals. A misunderstanding – no proposals were made for the transmission proposal I am pleased, and of course it will be followed up. When it applies to TV 2 as a free offer, I also said in my post that it must be followed up as long as the analogue concession period now granted to TV 2 lasts, but that it applies to the main channel of TV 2. When it comes to the SV's proposal on advertising, we have not given up any detailed discussion on advertising bans in this case. What we're inviting you to do is say something about the digital ground net and turning off the analogue. But when that is said, we have no plans to change the legislation in relation to advertising, and then there is the same legislation at the bottom of the future as it is today, both for TV 2 and for other actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e414	In the Christian environments, one is very concerned about being able to spread one's message, among other things. by television. As far as I'm concerned, in the Christian environments of the perception, based on what you've heard about the digital background, that the first channel package will be set by a 24 hour Christian TV channel. Based on what I read in both the notes and the message, and based on today's articles in the hall, I do not recognize myself in such a description. What we are talking about is an ‘open channel’ where voluntary organisations, life-vision organisations and other non-commercial activities are to be allocated space. I would ask the Council of State to clarify this uncertainty which is then evident in the Christian environments, whether or not you get a 24-hour Christian TV station.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e419	I am touched by Ulf Erik Knudsen's concern for the Christian organizations. I have to say that first, before I answer it. Then I will go directly to the proposal that lies here from Ulf Erik Knudsen and the Progress Party, where it is called: «Local television stations and life-vision stations should go ahead.» What we have said in the message is that we think it is good to have an open channel – not «Open channel», but that we have an open channel. We thought it was important that life-vision organisations should have room within this open channel, either as a channel for life-vision organisations, or that they should otherwise have space in the digital groundnet. It is in the message, and it was also said from the pulpit in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e426	The Council of State did not comment on our proposal, No. 10, that the Data Protection Authority should play an active role in the protection of privacy. I would like to have some comments on that, as we believe that the possibilities for registration are so great when digital technology is introduced that we ask them to be actively involved in the work. A little back to advertising rules: Valebrokk has already been out saying that they must have a level playing field in relation to, for example: TV3. Does this mean that the Council of State believes that TV3 should be communicated on the ground, be able to operate according to the same rules as TV2 does today, or will it be an opening? If the Council of State supports our ideas on this, what measures will the Council of State take? Or is the Toolbox to Reply City Haugland as empty as that Gabrielsen has?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e434	In the case of proposal No: 10, in relation to the Data Protection Agency, I think it's unnecessary, because it's quite obvious that a follow Norwegian law here. We will do that in this matter as in everyone else, and we have a clear law in relation to what should be allowed and not allowed, and what should be protected in terms of privacy, etc. When it comes to advertising, we don't add up to any changes in advertising law. That something is said about things that are demanded is expressed to people's opinions, but we don't add up to any changes in advertising law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e441	I also want to refer to the proposal from the SV about advertising. When TV3 broadcasts from London and has an English law, do we have the possibility to say that they will comply with Norwegian laws? The state councils have shown their power of action – I am thinking of this with gambling independence and slot machines, and getting an advertising press here may have an effect on what our councils have in the past. Then we will have some challenges when it comes to information and user support when we disconnect the analogue network. Will the Council of State take responsibility as a general meeting for, at least, the NRK and follow up on information coming out to users?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e446	As I said, and I can repeat it: we do not add up to any changes in the advertising law. We know how it works for TV3 that broadcasts from England. There's no way we can do anything other than what we've done so far, and that's going to happen in comparison to sending them from England. Otherwise, we will not add up to any changes in relation to it in this message. It is obvious that it is important to provide information to users when this needs to be updated. Whether the question has been asked that people in the Chamber should not be responsible for the decisions they take today, while the responsibility should lie with the Council of State and the Department, or why it is asked, I don't know. But at least we have NTV's assurances that there's going to be proper information. It's quite obvious that it needs to be. If we're going to be able to do this in a good way at all, it has to be a proper set of user information, and that's what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e453	First to TV 2 as a free channel: I agree with the Council of State that this of course concerns TV 2's main channel. That's the channel they're now entitled to. But my question about this will be settled before you give the concession to NTV, so that we are guaranteed free of charge out of this concession period. What happens after this concession period in relation to the analogue one, we have no guarantee for anyway. So to the advertising code: I just want to say that we give it full support if the state council will come up with measures to ensure that the advertising rules are followed and use the distribution systems for it, but she might come back to that. So to that with public broadcasts. It may have been too short, but my question was about the other commercial channels that have Norway as their main goal. Will they also be able to receive public broadcasting requirements? They will now have the same distribution as TV 2, and then we've said from the committee that it's reasonable to see if they also have any requirements. We fully support the initiative taken by Ireland to look at the country of destination principle in relation to broadcasting regulation. That would be a right policy. Finally, can the State Council say anything about this with user influence in relation to the composition of channel packets? We might have seen some unfortunate examples of UPC in Oslo. How does she view it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e464	These were many questions. A good part of this I said something about in my post. I think it is important for users to be able to be involved and influence, as many people have said in the setting. In the case of TV 2, this should be clarified so that there is a basis for further work in relation to the fact that TV 2 is a free offer. When it comes to advertising law, as I said, I have not made any changes to this matter. We might get back to that if it were to change, but we're not adding that up. When it comes to public broadcasting requirements for all the new ones that may be included in the digital ground network, there is something we have not yet clarified. We have made demands on TV 2 and NRK, but when it applies to the new ones, it's not clear, so we might get back to that. There may be different arguments for and against. If you want to set public broadcasting requirements to everyone, it can be monopolized, but we may get back to that when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e475	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e478	This is a matter that has at least two important aspects, one political and one technical. Politically, it is essential to get a ground-based digital network to go. If it is now pushed out in time, the number of subscribers will be so large that expansion would be economically impossible. What is important with the new network is that one can ensure national governance with important societal objectives. Norwegian channels are edited and controlled from abroad. This is not a desirable development if one is engaged in Norwegian-speaking television with Norwegian cultural and societal environments. I think, in principle, the state should have owned the web. This could have created clearer competition between the different TV companies. Now, I guess to the extent that this is decided at an earlier point in time, and that's why I accept it. Technically, five to twelve. 40 pst. can connect to cable systems and almost 30 pst. Bringing in the satellite. The two suppliers, Canal Digital and Viasat, are now marketing free of charge. It is technically and economically now that it has to be done. Many parts of Norway do not take NRK2 today, just about. 50 pst. This is perceived to be wrong by many because of the license payment. I have even twice pointed this out in the Questionnaire. This injustice will now be corrected and, in addition, there will be local TV and an open channel for voluntary organisations, life-vision organisations and other non-commercial organisations — at education and at a reasonable price. Not least there are radio channels too. The network will also, in the long term, allow broadband to be built in districts that are not covered by other suppliers. I see the possibility that the deployment of multiple transponders can deliver multiple channels, and I would like Nordic public broadcasting to be prioritised, as the Committee points out. Now we also have to realize that it will not only be joy when the analogue system is closed. So you have to buy a decoder of NOK 1500, and most people will get a better and clearer picture on their TV screen. But someone doesn't get the old analog signals and neither do the new ones. The option becomes parabola, and for a small group the whole image will disappear. I'm typing that part of them is going to be pretty pissed off. It is therefore important that the concession cover is kept as high as possible, at least 95 pst. by the population. This is an important, correct and forward-looking decision that the Stortinget is invited to make today, and I am pleased with the great consensus on the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e499	I take the floor again to stress that I am very pleased that there is such a broad majority that supports the development of a digital ground. I note that the vast majority of speakers here have contributed to a good and constructive debate, where, so to speak, all the speeches have made valuable contributions and supplements to this matter. I am actually taking the floor to also make a small remark to the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen and his comments. I still find it difficult to see that there is a realistic alternative in what has been said by the Progress Party, both in the positioning and now in the post here in the Chamber, an alternative that can reach out to the brother of the Norwegian people on a realistic economic basis. What characterises the Progress Party in this matter is that they bring an endless lamentation of all the shortcomings and concerns of the proposed proposal, but try to save themselves ashore by making some suggestions to minimize the damage, as they say. In particular, this is the case with local television stations and life-vision TV they mention in the setting. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this case of Christian TV has not been underlined in the vote either by the Progress Party. This is something they come with in the rhetoric today. Local television stations are just one of the main reasons why many of us have seen so positively the expansion of digital ground. Only this platform technology will ensure local television in the many rural areas of Norway. And in the case of «open channel», to which the Progress Party is also very critical, the Council of State has stressed that it is not about the company Open channel, but a channel arrangement. It will be up to Christian TV or Christian companies themselves to be on the path to join the ‘open channel’ and be able to consider other frequencies in this package. That's why we've put this opportunity open; so that they can join and get into this network. In this debate, I am reminded of another cultural issue in which the Progress Party played an important role, namely the construction of a new national opera house in Bjørvika, which was strongly opposed to the Progress Party. It has been said that the Progress Party opposed the construction of the opera – and it should be located in Bjørvika! In this case, they are against the development of digital ground, but they are for local television and Christian life television. If the Progress Party had received a majority in favour of its view, it is the clearest reason why there would be no of these options. And as the Bastisen correctly pointed out, the alternative of the Advance Party is what would be the biggest obstacle to building out exactly what they want most of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e510	I asked for the word to clarify a few of the questions that were raised in the exchange of answers with the Council of State. The first concerns user influence. I think that NTV itself would have a lot to do with maximising the user's influence, involvement and choice in terms of channel composition in the various packages, and also the possibility of district and regional division – of course with a certain cost, but at the same time with the possibility of a larger customer base, because an offer better adapted to the individual will make it more attractive to use NTV. However, self-interest in promoting certain commercial channels can be perceived, especially when there are content providers as owners. There may also be driving forces here that are contrary to the user's own interests. So the most important thing, as I wish the Council of State could say from the pulpit, is that she follows up what we're saying in the ballot, that the department is getting a warrant to be able to give that kind of legislation. It doesn't necessarily have to be there initially. We get to give NTV the chance to show that here they take their users seriously. However, we must be able to intervene and provide legislation later on, and not wait until a new concession may be granted in 12 years. The second concerns the regulation of the other commercial channels that aim at Norway. There is no doubt that there is other than TV 2, which, although they send from elsewhere, is nevertheless one-sided towards a Norwegian audience. Here is the question: is the country of dispatch or destination the basis for regulation? The principle so far has been that it is the country of dispatch, but more and more people are calling for the legislation of the country of destination to apply when it is quite obvious that the country's audience wants to reach. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are strongly in favour of that approach. I wish the Council of State could say that she too will join a work to get that kind of legislation, and – she said it was not clarified yet, but at least in principle – agree that when we now get full national coverage for other commercial channels, they should also be required, so that there is no unfair relationship with the largest commercial channel, TV 2, which obviously meets competition from others who do not have the cultural obligations that TV 2 has assumed. These two questions I would like the Council of State to say a little bit more about, and also make it clear that TV 2 as a free channel must be in place, as we have said, before the decisive decisions on digital ground and analogue networks are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e521	I register that the case rapporteur believes that we should discuss the opera and Bjørvika again. I could imagine challenging the case rapporteur to produce case papers and votes in view of the fact that the Advance Party would have voted in favour of Bjørvika. I have not recorded that we have done so, but I would very much like to discuss the opera with him when he had to feel it. It is a debate the Progress Party will win every time. I registered that the case rapporteur felt that the options of the Advance Party were not realistic. I'm not sure if he meant we should take him seriously, but I expect him to mean it. When you say that technologies like satellite, broadband and cables are not realistic, it's interesting to see that 70 pst. of Norway’s population is looking at something that is not realistic. The company Local Digital has also shown how this can be solved in places that are geographically inaccessible to satellite, broadband and cable. Here I think the case rapporteur has a job to do with explaining why satellite, broadband and cable are not realistic technologies. Otherwise, I think there is one challenge that the rapporteur has not answered in the speeches he has made today. He has not addressed the major problems of digital networks in Europe. They have major economic problems, and it is actually very difficult to point out to some concrete place where this is a success.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e530	First, I have to say that I think it's natural that a beneficiary country should be based, in relation to those who are going to send from abroad, when it's directed against Norwegian recipients. So it's the relationship between NTV, NRK, TV 2 and the others that are going to offer broadcasts. The law on electronic communications contains rules prohibiting the discrimination of own and other providers of services, and NTV will, of course, break the law if it tries to shut other broadcasters out for no real reason. At the same time, in consultation with the Competition Surveillance Authority, I will see whether it is necessary to impose additional obligations on NTV to secure that competition, so that a non-inferiority of individual operators is possible because they become a competitive moment. It is also worth noting that NTV’s own interest is to get the most Norwegian-language channels into the network, as this will make the network more attractive to Norwegian viewers. I also thought it was right and good if the users could be involved and influence, as I said a little about my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e538	I take the floor just for a brief comment to the representative of Knudsen. According to Knudsen's statement, I didn't calculate satellite and cable to be realistic platforms. I don't think I said that. Of course it is. What is not realistic is to reach the entire Norwegian people through satellite and cable, and not at all that you can also broadcast local television to everyone in this country through these platforms. It's in the context that it's not realistic. It's been calculated a little bit, and I'm not going to go out here with numbers on how much it would cost to cover this at a broadband platform, but it's been suggested maybe a hundred times what a digital platform will cost. I'm not going to do the math, but we know a little bit about what formidable expenses we would be facing. I also noticed that the representative did not go into this detail with life-vision TV and Christian channel, and neither should I. I just notice that he has accepted what I have decided on the Progress Party at that point, so I get to leave it alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e547	Ulf Erik Knudsen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e550	It was nice to hear that the Progress Party had a realistic alternative in satellite and broadband, because we all know in this room that Local Digital has solved the problem in the geographically difficult places. When it comes to this with the life-vision channel, I think the answer that the Council of State came up with was clarifying. It won't be a 24-hour Christian channel. It becomes a channel where non-profits and non-commercial interests, universities and maybe some life-visionists are allowed to participate. So the claim that a Christian channel is coming is considerably exaggerated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e557	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1950]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e573	Today, we have a proposal from the representatives of Åslauga Haga and Inger S. No general exemption from paying VAT for work on peaceful buildings and private property, or compensation schemes with the same effect. The majority of the Committee recommends that the document be annexed to the Protocol, while a minority at the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party make a proposal in line with what has been presented in the document. I assume that the minority itself will do something for their eyesight, and I will further concentrate on the plurality of their views. Cultural memory, cultural environment and cultural historical objects are not just history. It is also part of a living contemporary environment, and so the physical cultural heritage is part of both the past and the past. There are 2,300 private buildings in Norway. Under the law of planning and building, everyone who owns a house has a general obligation to keep it by the same token. In addition, maintenance of a peaceful building is subject to the monitoring of cultural memory management, and demands may be made for the carrying out of the work to be carried out in an antique manner. This is usually more expensive than general maintenance, and one should not underestimate the cost of maintaining and maintaining equal cultural memory through use – but it also pays off. In addition to the economic side of the value in use of cultural memory, the continuation of use will also sustain the social importance and history of cultural memory. A owner of peaceful cultural memory has the ability to search for resources from several sources to work. The proposers rightly point out that public funds do not go to be able to cover the trust for funds, and the majority in the Committee also ask the Government of the Message of Cultural Memory to come back with an assessment of different ways of getting a stake in accordance with the level of ambition set by the Government itself in St.meld. No 25 for 2002-2003, the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. Many private owners are very interested in and aware of the values they have on their property. Their willingness, competence and experience are decisive in ensuring that the individual cultural memory or environment is preserved in a good way. Peaceful property is subject to a self-sufficient and more stringent management than others. It is of particular importance, therefore, that these owners have a framework that seems motivating and that facilitates their active use and development. For 2004, the total funding related to physical measures for the protection and preservation of cultural memories amounts to approximately 123 million. kr. In addition, approximately $12 million. the return of the State Cultural Memory Fund could be used for the purpose. I want to shoot in here that for SV's part we think it's too small. We had an extraordinary investment of 200 million. kr in our 2004 alternative state budget for ship protection and other cultural memories as part of an extraordinary employment package, and we have also in recent years increased the entry of the Riksantikvaren by several million. When it comes to the proposal itself to exempt work on peaceful buildings from VAT, the majority refers to Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss, who wrote in a letter dated 9 February to the Committee: ‘The importance of a single tax system suggests that a person should avoid deductions from income that are not directly related to the accumulation of income. In order to ensure the greatest possible link between actual income and taxable profit, financial support for special purposes should normally be provided through direct support rather than special deductions from income. As a general rule, support will also be more targeted if it is provided through direct support than through specific deductions or other specific arrangements in the tax system.’ I must say that it is rare that I agree with the Minister of Finance as in this case! It is also such that, in some cases, protected buildings and private property structures will be used in the form of a fee-based commercial activity. Examples of this may be gardening, and insofar as a protected building or plant is used in a fee-based commercial activity, an in-depth VAT deduction is normally entitled to purchase for the enterprise. Tax-based, in relation to the income tax system, costs relating to the use of flooring on the garden could also be deducted in line with other means of operation. So today we have several schemes that support the objective. The challenge is that the volume is too low. I see that the media proposers claim that the majority's recommendation would mean that one does not take the decay of cultural memory seriously, but it is as wrong as it may be. Here, the majority of people are just positive about increasing cultural memory efforts, but we don't want to deal with one of the other proposals independently to get it done, when we know that the government will present a big message about cultural memory later this year, where you can see a lot of proposals for economic action in a whole world. This is also what several of the hearing agencies are asking us to do. Both the Norwegian Cultural Heritage Association and the Association of Preliminary Memory indicate that the proposal should be dealt with in the right context, in the cross-sectoral bigotry message on cultural memory. So the majority agree that one should reach the ambition level set by the Government in St. Report. No 25, and as the Storing joined. And as I've been in the past, we're asking the Government in the announcement to come back with an assessment of different ways to get a bet in line with the level of ambition. With that I would recommend to the Committee its recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e614	The Labour Party supports everything the case spokesperson has done well for. I have also noticed what the Minister of Finance writes about the tax system: «The importance of a single tax system suggests that a person should avoid deductions from income that are not directly related to the accumulation of income.» It is interesting to note that the Minister of Finance from the Right says this so clearly and clearly, and as the President-in-Office, I fully agree with what the Minister of Finance further writes: ‘As a general rule, support will also be more targeted if it is provided through direct support than through specific deductions or other specific arrangements in the tax system.’ An opening for more and more deduction schemes makes for the first tax system extremely incomprehensible, and second, we lose a complete overview of what we actually use for the different purposes. At the same time, I agree with the proposers that there is a need for a better arrangement to take care of the peaceful buildings. I agree with the description that the proposers come up with, that there are many challenges for the owners, which are difficult for them to master. When the regimes go to peace, there must also be a solution to the additional costs and operational problems involved in peace. That is why there is a surplus, as the case-speaker was inside, a total of 120-130 million. kr annually. However, much indicates that this is not enough. Then it is important once again to clarify what the majority says in the setting when this is the case: ‘The majority have concluded that there is a need to increase the bet on peace and protected buildings, and will ask the Government in the notice of cultural memory to come back with an assessment of different ways of getting a bet in accordance with the level of ambition.’ It is very clear from the plural that one here wants an extra bet, but that one should see this in conjunction with the existing plural arrangements, and get this bet visible and targeted. The best way to get something here is to process the message. It is claimed that the back-up arrangements are bureaucratic. Yes, I really don't know what would be the most bureaucratic – to introduce another new exemption scheme for taxes, or to increase existing back-up schemes. The vendor should administer the system with 0 pst. VAT instead of 24 pst. on goods and services in connection with peaceful and private-owned buildings. A series of questions will appear immediately. First, what is private ownership? Applies to the foundations, etc.? A number of buildings, on which the case-leader was involved, will be used for the business that is subject to a charge – gardening, serving, hall. It entitles the Ministry of Finance to deduct VAT, and as the Ministry of Finance writes: ‘A derogation from the purchase for peaceful buildings involving taxable business may create tax-related problems when it relates to the right to deduct. Purchases to the enterprise will then be partially subject to VAT, which may be deducted in the tax settlement with the country, and partly free of VAT.» So there's a number of bureaucratic limitation and control problems in relation to different houses, in relation to different activities, for example. on a guard, and on the question of which goods and services this shall apply. I just want to stress that the plural here thinks that there has to be an increase in the bet by the authorities to help those who own such peaceful buildings, but that it has to be done through arrangements other than a VAT exemption, on which the proposal is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e646	It is linked to some considerable expenditure to keep in claimed buildings that are protected, as these are to be put in place according to special guidelines that are extra expensive. Different aid schemes are already in place, and we therefore do not consider it appropriate to establish new compensation schemes for this purpose. This applies to the 2,300 protected buildings which are privately owned, in addition to the peaceful Sami buildings and buildings constructed between 1537 and 1649. The majority of the Committee does not support the proposal of the representatives of Åslaug Haga and Inger S. Enger for a general exemption from the payment of VAT on goods and services used for work on peaceful and privately owned buildings or compensation schemes having equivalent effect. The VAT is a general consumption charge which should have the lowest possible exemptions and special arrangements. An exemption from value added tax on goods and services in the context of work on peaceful buildings will create significant control problems. It will be very difficult to verify that the exempted goods and services are used for the purpose. For example, it will. be the individual trader who places goods and services on the market for work on peaceful buildings, who is responsible for ensuring that the exemption complies with the conditions. The exemption will impose administrative costs on those operators and they must be accountable to the charging authorities in the event of any unjustified exemptions. The right considers that the country’s contribution for different purposes should be given priority within the expenditure of the State budget and not indirectly in the form of tax exemptions. This both makes the scope of the aid visible and allows the aid to be administered by the experts in the field in question. Proposals for exemptions from the payment of VAT for work on peaceful buildings and civil engineering must be discussed in an overall context and in a broad review of cultural memory policy. In this context, I refer to the Minister of Finance letter of 9 February of this year, where he announces that the Government will promote a big message on cultural memory policy during 2004. There is a need to look at whether there is room for increased investment in peaceful and protected buildings. We want to ask the Government to come back with an assessment of different ways of getting such a bet in the context of the announced message on cultural memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e659	The number of rescued buildings in Norway that are privately owned is over 2,300 and new buildings are preserved at regular intervals. So the number is increasing. There is a general consensus that the existing government grant funds do not extend to such an extent that maintenance is too poor in many places and buildings fall due. The government itself states that only approx. 13 pst. of the country's standing peaced buildings and structures have a normal maintenance level, meaning that 87 pst. is in some form of maturity. This should, in my view, concern those who are concerned about caring for our cultural memories. For individuals who are owners of peaceful buildings, there will usually be an economic burden that many cannot bear. Everyone who owns buildings, according to the Planning and Building Act, has a certain minimum maintenance obligation. In addition, the maintenance of peaceful buildings is subject to the surveillance of cultural memory management and maintenance is required to be carried out in an antique manner. This favours the work, often significantly, of individuals, in addition to imposing more stringent restrictions on the use of the property. The subsidy schemes currently in place in Norway are not required but have to be applied for in competition with others. When the funds are too scarce, the result is that not everyone gets, or that everyone gets too little to cover their additional costs. It is the interests of society and not the interests of its owners that are safeguarded by peace. It is therefore both reasonable and right for society to accept the additional cost of peace. This is happening in a number of other countries, and many countries in Europe have their own tax rules on expenditure on the maintenance of peaceful buildings. This applies, inter alia, to: in Denmark, Finland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and France. Reduced or refunded VAT is an instrument in most of these countries. The party considers that where public authorities intervene in the exercise of property rights by means of measures to reduce value added, impositions and restrictions which substantially increase the cost to owners, public contributions must also be made by general instruments from which all the parties concerned can avail themselves. Finally, I would like to include the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e676	The representative Per Erik Monsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e679	Today, when we are discussing exemptions from the payment of VAT for work on peaceful and private buildings or other forms of compensation schemes, the committee's discussion as well as the debate in the Chamber today shows that there is little disagreement about the need to find good solutions. The fact that we in Norway see the importance of protecting buildings and structures makes us at the same time take care of our culture, our traditions and our history. It is therefore essential to find reliable and good arrangements to achieve this objective as far as possible. The objective must be focused. We all have the duty to maintain our own houses, but in the case of peaceful buildings and installations, it is the responsibility of the owners – in common to all of us. This is because it often takes a little more to maintain them in a conservation way, and it will often be costly because it requires special methods. The owners of such buildings are conscious of their responsibility, and it is often their own efforts that determine how well the buildings are cared for. But it is important to consider whether we have good enough and reliable enough solutions, which both seem motivating and facilitating the economic situation for the owners of these buildings. With regard to the instruments and the relationship with the tax system, we want a simple tax system without too many special arrangements. If we are to follow that line – and I am glad that the majority of the Committee agrees – we should avoid deductions from income that are not directly related to income earned. Accordingly, any aid should be granted through direct aid rather than specific deductions in income. As a general rule, direct aid will be more targeted than separate deductions or other specific arrangements in the tax system. Finally, as the majority of the Committee has clearly said, it is important that we increase our efforts on peaceful and protected buildings in a good way. And since the origin of this whole matter comes from a previously presented NOW, «The past forms the future. Challenges in a new cultural memory policy», I think it is quite right, as pointed out by the case-rapporteur, that the further follow-up to today's issue is addressed in a more comprehensive framework in connection with the Government's promoting a big message on cultural memory policy during 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e692	I am pleased that a group of committees agree that funds are needed for an important purpose – and that is something! As it is now, many people simply feel that it is being protected from precipitation. Owning peaceful houses feels too many owners a great burden. The Riksantikvart determines – and restoration according to the guidelines costs much more than normal maintenance would do. Work must be carried out in a special way and the materials cost more. It's not that unreasonable. But what's really unreasonable is that there's so little money in the system that this becomes a big burden for those who own the peaceful houses. For some it becomes so that the house stays standing without restoration and is due – not slowly, but surely. The decay occurs quite quickly. I know about people in the Gudbrand valley who would await the outcome of this proposal before they could possibly initiate restoration on the premises of the Riksantikvar. So this would mean a lot to people, and it would have been a golden chance to do something about a big problem. Fortunately, however, the majority of the committee has stated: ‘The majority have concluded that there is a need to increase the bet on the peace and protected buildings, and will ask the Government of the Message of Cultural Memory to come back with an assessment of different ways of getting a bet in accordance with the level of ambition the Government itself adds to St.meld. No 25 Government environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state of the state of the state.’.» [[2002-03]] This sounds reassuring. But if a person checks out what's written about the state of the kingdom's environment, the image becomes a little bit more nuanced. Chapter 6, on cultural memories and environments, states, among other things: the following on national conservation targets: ‘The annual loss of cultural memories and environments due to removal, destruction or decay shall be minimised and shall not exceed 0,5 % annually by 2008.’;» As you know, today you expect the maturity to be approx. 1 pst. every year. It'll be a lot to take in in three years. In addition, it's known that only 13 pst. of the country's standing peaced buildings and structures have regular maintenance. So here we're talking about big numbers. Let it also be clear that there is no strange phenomenon that there is support for peace and shelter. Unfortunately, it is rather a strange phenomenon that it is provided so little for this purpose. To me, it seems that the case rapporteur has done a thorough job on this matter. Among other things, many questions have been sent to the Ministry of Finance, and the answers therefrom show that they are not so enthusiastic about this proposal. This proposal deals primarily with VAT rules, and that is complicated. It is true that the proposal does not confer any advantage on the peaceful agricultural buildings. But for peaceful houses for other purposes, not least dwellings, this could be a good arrangement. By the way, VAT exemptions represent only half of the proposal. In addition to proposing the introduction of general VAT exemptions from VAT, it states: ‘or compensation schemes having equivalent effect’. It is too small and too few instruments in the system. There simply needs more money, and then you have to be solution-oriented. In the debate here, I would rather have pointed out the difficulties, rather than trying to make concrete proposals. I think it may be difficult to come up with such large grant schemes that the 2008 objective can be achieved. This was meant to be an attempt in the right direction. But for all intents and purposes, we will be very positive for all measures that can help save our common cultural heritage. The interest in peaceful and sheltered houses is great. It's nice, but it doesn't keep with verbal interest. Finally, I would like to quote from the letter from the Minister of Finance on 9 February: ‘In order to ensure the greatest possible link between actual income and taxable profit, financial support for special purposes should normally be provided through direct support’. It is all right that the Minister of Finance thinks so. But I'd like to finally use an example to show some numbers on this. The example doesn't show the whole picture, but it says something about the order of magnitude. Upland is the county that has the most peaceful houses in the country, about. 500 pieces, from small millhouses to very large bunkhouses. Today, the county receives 1.5 million. kr per. years in support of peaceful houses. If I take very carefully and say that every house needs $50,000 extra because they're at peace, and multiply that number, we're going to get up to $25 million. kr. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance how he sees that this grant scheme can be stepped up to an adequate level. Today it's known as 13 pst. of well-preserved houses with satisfactory maintenance. The government has given itself bad time. The objective is to maintain regular maintenance by 2010 at the end of the peaced buildings and structures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e730	Here is one of the so-called anti-cultural representatives. It is always the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that stand at the forefront and say that they are like the cultural parties in Norway. Here they had a golden opportunity to show it in practice. But what do they do? They're stabbing the other way around. It is difficult to break into the VAT system, several representatives have said here. How is the VAT system today? If I go down to McDonald’s and buy myself an ice cream or a hamburger, I pay 12 pst. VAT if I go out on the street and eat it there. If I find out that I'm going to eat it inside, I have to go back in and pay 24 pst. VAT. Putting this cultural action into the zero system has to be very easy. The newspapers have a zero system, several others have a zero system – that this should be some hokuspokus, is too dry. But here the government is happy to follow in the footsteps of the socialists and wants more bureaucrats. That's what this is all about. This is not exactly in the spirit that the Right has consistently stood for – that it is now time to debureaucratise. In addition to requiring owners to repair and maintain according to certain rules — a good deal more is required with the rehabilitation done — the State collects 24 pst. VAT on all of this, and it's going to be a huge increase for those who own these buildings. In addition, many municipalities protect a lot of buildings. There are three different degrees the municipalities can protect a building after, and this eagerness has gripped them in many municipalities. But in addition, many municipalities charge property taxes on these buildings. If VAT is not enough, you must also have property taxes. And then you come back a third time and you apply property taxes to these buildings. Is there no limit to the greed of the public when it comes to imposing taxes and charges on such buildings? First, private property is protected, then private owners are charged large costs for the maintenance and rehabilitation of these protected and peaceful buildings. Then they are taxed on property, as well as adding taxes on property. On top of this comes an eager state of 24 pst. VAT on rehabilitation, which actually costs twice what it would cost for a normal building – and this from what is called the cultural parties. As far as my county, Uppland, is concerned, the whole state is almost protected and peaceable, and there are avid bureaucrats in the municipalities – plus a part of the state – who are doing this. What's the result up in the valleys with us? Yes, it's due. It's just taking a trip up, you see this. The Minister of Finance has not been up here today – I hope he will. It would have been tempting finally to get an answer from him as to whether he does not see the madness in this tax and taxing of old beautiful buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e745	The representative, Nistad, invites to a wide-ranging debate on taxes and levies, which I am sure the Minister for Finance will be able to respond well. But I would also like to remind you that there have been many assumptions in which the Progress Party could have contributed to just lower taxes, for example. taxes on property in municipalities or property taxes, to which we will certainly return. In any case, there is one perspective that I would like to highlight in this debate. It is to emphasise that we are actually facing private actors. The ones we're talking about are very often farmers, but they're also others. It is people who show a great deal of administrative responsibility. In fact, I disagree very much with the representative Nistad when he says that if you go up the Gudbrand valley, it hangs and this hangs everywhere. It doesn't. It's actually pretty nice on the backyards. Pull up in Heidal, and you'll be able to travel from tuna to tuna where there's huge effort from those who own and drive! They've used their funds. Whoever has such a guard gets quite caught. You have learned to put in a nail, and you have learned to put a peat roof, even though it is according to special guidelines that the Riksantikvaren had to give – and he does. The arrangements we're talking about are arrangements that just have to make on the home track of those who own and run such wardrobes. They have to feel that the money they get is put in where it really is necessary. They have to know every time they get a grant, that it doesn't make any use of a penny, you have to be able to prioritize so that you really get the promises you often face. Often it's like this when it's about changing windows on a whole garden and it's going to be quirky angles – we know it costs the shirt – that it's about getting an amount that actually makes you do it, and not that it's just a small grant that comes from somewhere more random. Then focus is important, and flexibility is important. The calculation that the representative, Mr. Enger, did is absolutely correct. If you were to cover this completely, it would cost a lot of money. Although we manage to significantly increase the appropriations for these purposes, we will never get ashore in relation to the kind of needs we face, if we only rely on public efforts. We're completely satisfied that the management role that people have around is still there, and that we're still running maintenance, that is, that we're building up under the spirit that's needed to preserve our cultural memories. We have to create a climate that makes this possible. That means that in this picture it must be possible for the Riksantik product and for others, perhaps especially at county level, to do a targeted job, to be in communication with the actors we're talking about, and to be able to put in funds where you can see that it's needed. The second is that we also need to involve private actors and a private thinking around operations, and this is about flexibility. I would particularly like to point out the work that Norsk Cultural Heritage does, which is just about facilitating use and getting the properties we're talking about into into an economic exploitation that makes it possible to drive and make peace for an advantage instead of being a disadvantage. Heidal is a great place to visit. It is a great place for all types of tourism. Then it's important to build up under it. There, Norwegian Cultural Heritage is doing a great job, the Ancient Memory Association as well. Let's take a force for cultural memory protection. But let's also innovate that even if we increase public funding, we depend on doing it in a way that involves private funds, which make cultural memory protection an advantage rather than a disadvantage, and which takes care of the management spirit that is an important part of major parts of Building Norway. And then we might be able to do that, even if in the years that are coming, we're going to get a lot bigger volume than we know so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e765	I'm not going to take part in the competition for which chauffeurs have the best administrators. But it is mainly also my impression that landowners and farm owners are conscious of their responsibility, and it is incredibly great to see in Norwegian chauffeurs in this area. The representative asked questions about how to imagine a grant scheme that would be sufficient. It is quite natural that the announcement about the theme brings up. Otherwise, this debate has focused on the need for more money. In that case, a budgetary priority must be given and the Stortinget will be given a regular opportunity to participate in, i.e.: decision. This is not the case, even if a tax system costing a few million is introduced, that this money is exempt from an overall priority. There is also money within the same framework as any grant scheme. In general, I just want to say that the VAT system is set up to bring money into the treasury for good purposes. Not least the Progress Party is a proponent for getting more money for good purposes. It's not going to be anything special if you reduce income through the VAT system. It is true, as the representative Nistad said, that each time you make a differentiation within the VAT system or create exemption and exemption schemes, it leads to complications. He himself mentioned the big problem by visiting McDonald’s – I think it was – operating with two sets. I should like to give an example – since we have first talked about Gudbrandsdalen – from accommodation sites, which operate with two VAT rates. That's what Stortinget has decided. Overall, paying for both overnight and food creates complicated demarcation problems. It has led to legal proceedings based on a VAT system that the representative, Mr Enger, has been involved in. Such matters are complicated, partly incomprehensible, because then some people simply have to decide what is overnight and what is food. Then you can discuss whether the Customs and Fee Directorate has the right competence to determine the size of food packages or, where appropriate, what is in different meals, and what is in overnight stays. I fully agree that that competence is not there. But it's now once the Storting that's put it there. Then it's not the fault of the bureaucrats, because the bureaucrats actually do what they're told by the Storting to do. Instead, if we simply increased support through existing support schemes for peaceful buildings, then we can say that we are moving the competence to assess this issue from those with the competence of the aid schemes today to those who do not have competence in this area, namely the Customs and Fee Directorate. Because it's an illusion to think that you can get a system that's so simple that there won't be any doubt. The rapporteur was, for example, concerned just how to control the relationship between taxable and non-taxable activities and how to control which materials go to what. It could have resulted in a partially degrading interference in private circumstances if one were to go after table and plank and more or less crooked windows to find out what is to be covered by the compensation scheme and what is not. Finally, I just want to say that it is turning the issue completely upside down to say that building on today's existing support system will lead to more bureaucrats. No, what will lead to more bureaucrats is if this system is introduced into the VAT system, in addition to having a direct grant scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e785	State Council Foss was involved in the VAT system, and that it would be difficult to put this into a zero rate. There can't possibly be more bureaucrats of it when you put it into a zero rate system, instead of having it like today, where there's a lot of bureaucrats sitting there and deciding who's going to get the money to replace their windows. So I took up the system that the hotels and catering companies have today. In the case of catering companies, you have a two-part VAT system, with 12 pst. or 24 pst. The hotels have 0 or 24 pst. It's hard. But here it's a zero system that's not hard, it's a simple system. The Minister of Finance probably understands that, but he must defend what has been done. I guess that's the way it is. He also said that it was difficult to get this into the VAT system because you had to go to the table and plank. But the tax authorities are running after every piece of table and plank today, because they're keen and want to see if you're using the plank on your cabin, or if you're using it on your buildings. So that job is really doing the bureaucrats well enough today! So I'll give you another example. You've been very good at veteran cars. The personal injury tax is half the price, you do not have a year's tax on veteran cars, and there are no taxes on the import of veteran cars. You only have VAT. So there you have it clear, because you see the cultural value of taking care of an old, great car. But in the case of buildings – just look at Oslo, how many beautiful buildings there are here – you don't want to go and do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e799	It may not be so easy that if you put zeros in an area, the control problems are gone – rather on the contrary – that's when they occur. I don't need to defend everything that's done. It is quite unnecessary, with the level of knowledge represented by the representative Nistad, to draw attention to the fact that the difference between food and not food in the VAT system was made against the votes of individual parties. I feel no need to defend any position. I would just like to point out that, as far as any rise in the level of taxation and taxation is concerned, the number of exceptions and the number of different rates, the more difficult and the more bureaucratic it becomes to administer. A party that is concerned with reducing red tape should actually look at the cause of bureaucracy. And the reason for bureaucracy lies not with the bureaucrats; it lies with the political authorities that create systems that make it difficult to manage. I will not address the question of veteran cars here, but I will assume – without defending everything that has happened – that the reason for a somewhat lower traffic damage charge for veteran cars may be related to the behaviour of veteran cars in traffic. I don't think it sounds completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e810	Thore A. Nistad has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e813	The personal injury tax was just one of several taxes that I mentioned. The reason for the bureaucracy is simply that the government has released the municipalities in terms of protecting the cabin and weather. With us, all mountains are protected, all forests are protected and peaceful, and now you also start to protect and peace all buildings. It's just like my good friend Rudihagen whispered to me here instead: it's soon just you and I who are not protected or at peace. If there's something about bureaucracy, here we can remove it. The papers have zeroed. Why should this system be so difficult? Foss understands it enough, but he won't admit it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e820	The President did not see it as the representative's wish that a protective decision be taken on behalf of some big business representatives. Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on substance. 2 is over. [[Fotation, see page 1951]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e830	We then go to voting in case No. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e837	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, the proposals No. 2 – 4, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 5, 6, 9 and 10, by Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5 and 10 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a State infrastructure company with the aim of expanding and operating the digital ground network.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Data Protection Authority has an active role in terms of privacy protection and unwanted information collection of user patterns, if any NTV customer lists and license payer registers are linked.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e871	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: « Size asks Government St. Meld. [[2002-2003]] No 44 About the digital network for television and St.meld. [[2002-2003]] No 49 Broadband for knowledge and growth in context.’» The coastal party has notified that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e888	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that any other commercial television channels provided for in the digital ground network comply at all times with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions applicable to advertising aimed at children, advertising gambling/gambling, alcohol, smoking and non-prescribed or prescribed medicines.’ The Central Party and the Coastal Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e905	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government does not request prioritisation of the ‘Open Channel’ distribution in the first channel package. Local television stations and life-vision stations should take precedence.’;» The coastal party has notified that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e922	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the exemption from the broadcasting fee for households whose TVs do not have digital decoders for the receipt of NRK, satellite receiver with NRK card, are connected to cable TV facilities that distribute NRK, or are connected to other distribution of NRK signals when the analogue ground net has been closed.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘Concession is not granted for the construction and operation of a nationwide, user-funded digital ground network.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e944	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that simple and inexpensive conversions are available to people who do not want their own set-top box, as described in a letter from the Committee to the Minister for Culture of 5 January 2004, with a reply from the Council of State on 14 January 2004.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e973	During the debate, Mr Monsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to introduce a general exemption from the payment of VAT on goods and services used in works on saved and privately owned buildings or compensation schemes having equivalent effect. The scheme shall also apply to properties regulated for the purposes of conservation under the Planning and Building Act.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26.ana.ud2655e1002	There is no record.
