ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e60	Representatives André Kukkestad, Silja Ekeland Bjørkly and Gunhild The island, which has been licensed, has once again taken its seat. The representative of Finn Kristian Marthinsen shall apply for leave on 30 November and 1 December to attend the 50th session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly, Part II, in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the Vara, Unni Hennum Lie, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e89	Unni Hennum Lie is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e95	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e115	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e126	As rapporteur of the case, I would first of all like to take up some of the points of view of a Joint Defence Committee, to which the Committee on Justice has joined. This is the second time the Storting is invited to discuss the content of a social security message during this majority period. The previous notification was examined two years ago, and then both in the Justice Committee and in the Defence Committee at the same time. I'd like to ask the presidency to consider using the joint approach again when addressing the next social security message. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is becoming more in line with the organisation, as it is the Ministry of Justice that has coordination responsibility and writes the communication, while the Defence Committee is responsible for case-presidency and processing, and it makes clear the civil-military cooperation and the overall defence concept. This time, the position of the Defence Committee has been examined by the Judicial Committee before finalisation. The Judicial Committee has joined the suspension but has a note that improves the content of the concept of the new overall defence concept: ‘The Committee will clarify the concept of total defence in the light of social security and preparedness work. Total defence includes the exploitation of military and civil resources to maintain an organised and functioning society, to protect the population and the values of society. The military defense consists of the defense. The civil part of the total defence includes the whole of society with all its functions that must function in crisis and war. The Committee would also clarify that the total resources available to deal with a war could also be used for difficult, crisis-like events in peace.» This is the essence and framework of work to achieve social security and security for citizens. The Committee considers it important to have common content to concepts within the new overall defence concept. Having a common understanding of concepts in civil-military cooperation will ensure good communication at all levels of government. The majority of the Committee proposes the creation of a social security framework as a tool for becoming familiar with words and expressions within the new overall defence concept. It will be important for planning and exercises, not least in emergency situations where it may be essential to ‘speak the same language’. The work on this position has shown that new procedures are needed to meet the needs of the Judicial Committee and the Defence Committee to be kept up-to-date in the area of social security and preparedness, in order to maintain a holistic approach in this area. The setting probably also bears the impression that some parties are calling for feedback on matters that other parties have found the answers to in the documents submitted by the Government to Stortinget, preferably St.meld. No 39 for 2003–2004. The right and Christian People's Party believes that the government's feedback on vulnerability prevention, anti-terrorism measures, preparedness, crisis management and several other issues have been satisfactory. Measures and instruments to achieve social security have not been completed once and for all. Evaluation, innovation, development and flexibility are required. It is important that all departments clearly link relevant issues promoted by the Storting against the concepts of social security and preparedness. All the committees are involved in the work on social security and preparedness. Therefore, there is a need for a greater awareness that ‘this’ is part of the overall defence concept and the work on social security. An active attitude towards the implementation of the fundamental and guiding principles of responsibility, equality and proximity is crucial. The principle of liability means that the person who has a responsibility in a normal situation is also responsible in the event of exceptional events. The principle of equality means that an organisation you operate with on a daily basis should be as similar as the organisation you have during crises. The principle of subsidiarity means that crises should be addressed at the lowest possible level. Equally important is holistic strength — see contexts and impacts across disciplines and levels. It is also important to see common challenges and new opportunities for the coordination of resources. One example is a joint accident commission on civil aviation, rail, road and maritime transport accidents, which is now under consideration in the Business Committee. As a further follow-up to it, the Committee considers that formal cooperation between supervisory authorities in the same areas could have a better impact on the follow-up and improvement of safety. Another example of the Committee’s approach to holistic solutions and good use of resources is to assess whether there is any evidence of cooperation structures in coastal preparedness, such as: Coastal Directorate, Coastal Works, Maritime Charting. In fact, the Committee takes the view that the Government has a regular assessment of the needs of different sectors of society for coordination in terms of security and preparedness. However, the Committee considered it useful to accept that it had to be done. The budget work is in the inquiry here at Stortinget now. In this context, the Committee will clarify that all departments have to make a separate chapter, if any. a point, entitled «Societal security and preparedness» in the annual budget proposals, to make their work on objectives, actions, exercises and priorities visible and to summarise them. An overall committee agrees that the matters presented in St.meld are still being worked on. No 17 for 2001–02, and the proposals put forward in the past. S. No 9 for 2002–2003 from Stortinget. It is also clear that this Communication has paid particular attention to describing civil-military cooperation and the development of overall defence. There is a good review of this cooperation both in St.meld. No 39 for 2003–2004 by the Ministry of Justice and Police and in St.prp. No 42 for 2003–2004 from the Ministry of Defence. It also shows the agreement on the division of duties and responsibilities, so it can be very useful both for those who work in the police, and for those who work in the defence, to read what big business and government means. For the Christian People's Party, it was important that the coordination responsibility for the civil security of society was added to the Ministry of Justice and Police. This coordination responsibility has now been clarified and strengthened, inter alia. in setting up the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and by providing the National Safety Authority with a professional reporting link to the Ministry of Justice and Police. In the light of the objectives set by the Committees in the Inst. S. No 9 for 2002–03, the Government for the period 2005–08 has set up the following areas in which they will focus: prevention activities, including health, environmental and security work, ensuring the ability of emergency and emergency seats to deal with major incidents, including terrorism and the use of mass destruction agents, targeted and coordinated efforts to ensure the critical infrastructure of society increased cooperation, including plans and exercises between civil and military authorities, strengthening the capacity of intelligence and security services to analyse, alert and prevent various forms of terrorism in Norway overall and coordinated crisis management centrally, regionally and locally; The Committee has agreed to these priorities and made some comments on the individual themes. Furthermore, the Committee has been concerned with the consequences of the rapid development of society, including privatisation and what it means for social security. Therefore, it is positive that a sample has been set up to secure the country’s critical infrastructure to assess and identify instruments to ensure the country’s security and vital national interests. Accident statistics show that it is the daily events that dominate the damage picture. It is therefore appropriate to focus on society’s basic preparedness to deal with the most common accidents. Societal preparedness is best ensured by facilitating the prevention and management of daily and exceptional events by individual citizens, businesses, sectors and emergency budgets. Nevertheless, terrorism is most often the main focus. International terrorism represents a very serious global security challenge, which may affect all nations and parts of the world. Terrorists are unpredictable and often choose unexpected targets and methods of attack. Preventive activities which, in this context, are important in order to protect the safety of citizens. Adequate resources for intelligence and close cooperation between our security services are important. International terrorism must be combated by the use of several different instruments, one of which is security policy. Terrorism has evolved into activities affecting the democratic values of society, economic stability, security and security. Terrorism is more than traditional serious crime and can lead to crises with security policy dimensions. The Committee would stress the importance of close and flexible cooperation between police and defence in the face of terrorism. Reference is made to the current instructions for the defence assistance to the police. In Norway, terror is initially to be handled by the police with any assistance from the Defence Department. International cooperation is important, and by contributing to peace and stability internationally through conflict prevention, judicial settlement and peace and reconciliation, we also safeguard security in our own neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e224	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e227	The rapporteur has a burning commitment to social security, which today may be the most important part of our security policy, and in particular civil-military cooperation and the need for it to work. There is also broad consensus in the Committee on Most Themes. But in one area, the Christian People's Party and the Right Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party do not follow. It is with regard to our consideration of the safety risk posed by increasing fragmentation and privatisation. Of course, this is primarily about the privatisation of cargo, supply and other things in the defence sector, among other things. base operation. But the transport sector and our coastal preparedness are also vulnerable, and it is important that it is a central control. A privatisation here, and we can risk overcoming ownership, for example. on terrorists or people we don't have an overview of at all. Is it not the case-rapporteur's view that ensuring that we do not privatise vital social functions is an important part of our social security, i.e. the security in a broad sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e234	Privatisation is probably necessary. However, it is absolutely essential that there be some impact assessments, so that we do not harm the competences that public needs, or – not least – social security and preparedness. Actually, we agree, but we think it's possible to privatize something, if you're very clear in what areas the public itself has to take responsibility for. Privatisation also requires the conclusion of agreements that ensure that both competence and delivery, and at all events what is necessary for social security, are properly safeguarded. This is something that the Christian People's Party and we all, I reckon, will follow up and see to it that it is handled in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e241	The representative Åse Wisløff Nilssen believes that in today's situation enough resources are being allocated, both human and economic, in the prevention and combating of sabotage operations, both large and small, to our IT infrastructure, such as: hacking and physical sabotage? The Progress Party sees weaknesses, that it can seem like it's too passive and hesitant to this growing problem, which can paralyze parts of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e248	In terms of data, ICT and sabotage, there is also an important area where a lot of work is done. NSM has a responsibility there, where it is also employed against private organisations and institutions to monitor and help in the event of hacking. But this is one of those areas that you have to work actively with to get ahead of all those who are very busy with data and everything that the tool can use. As I said, it's not a static thing. One hasn't invented all the solutions once and for all. This is a continuous evaluation and work, such as: The Ministry of Modernisation also has an active part in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e255	There is a large consensus in the Storting on the content of this message. A Joint Committee considers that the Government should address the issue of a central crisis management unit which, in the event of a crisis, will be responsible for coordination by the Ministry and the relevant departments. In his remark, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party say that already today such unity exists through the arrangements that exist. Does the representative Wisløff Nilssen see any advantage in setting up a standing crisis management unit other than that referred to today in this note, i.e. the Council of Ministers group and the coordinating responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Police?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e262	The representative Bjørklund referred to the Right and Christian People's Party has written in the notes. What I want to express is a concern that if you get a firm crisis management system, your flexibility will be gone. I see it as very important that it is those who work with the areas of daily life, who should also have the primary responsibility if crises arise. The Prime Minister’s office has at any time the possibility of setting up a working group or overseeing everything called crisis management. As I said, there is the danger of stagnating in previous crises that means that I am not going for a fixed crisis management unit, as some suggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e269	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e273	Through the case handling of St.meld. No 39 for 2003–04, Social security and civil-military cooperation, there have been many references to the Int. S. No 9 for 2002–2003, which was the common position of the Defence and Justice Committee at St.meld. No 17 for 2001–2002, Social security was addressed by the Stortinget on 5 November 2002. In many ways it was a milestone in social security. But what was decided at the time? And have we done well to proceed when we now manage St.meld No. 39? Modern technological society is very vulnerable, and international events have shown that different actors and challenges can threaten the collective security of society. What gives us less security and, unfortunately, a more insecure time is just that. Nevertheless, vision must still be a secure and robust society that defends our governance, our independence and our values. Therefore, all available resources need to be put in the forefront in order to avert tacks and after-effects in order to overcome crises quickly and efficiently. This work requires resources, and it requires clear command lines, and it requires clearly defined responsibilities. This is not least important in the fight against terrorism, where adequate intelligence resources are also needed, which is an important prevention measure against terrorism. It is important that Norwegian security services work closely together, because international terrorism can only be combated by several means, which together have to be used in its full width to reach the target. NATO's strategic approach from 1999 defined the new tacks such as terrorist networks, international crime, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons competence. On 11 September 2001, the predictions of NATO confirmed. The Labour Party therefore believes that collapse and government must know their responsibilities. The responsibilities of central government and necessarily of major crises are great. In order to coordinate this responsibility and to establish coordinated and coherent lines of responsibility, the Sárbarheit Selection proposed a single senior department, a Ministry of the Interior. We can take note here from our side, but the government itself creates its own departmental structure. However, the working party will bear the responsibilities and the need for a clear division of responsibilities at the central level. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee could agree that the Government should handle matters around the central crisis management unit. This is an organisational grip that the Workers' Party believes is an important step in the right direction. It is in matters like this that politicians of all categories do what they can to ensure that collective security is as good and as safe as possible. That's what the mean man and woman claim. That's why we're sitting in this hall. Some people say there's some practice, but it's not just that. If the command line is wrong, and if a practice each time gives rise to a conflict of responsibility, the practice will not have a significant effect. So practice is good, but alone not enough. Clear responsibilities and command lines are at least as important. The Labour Party is pleased that a Joint Defence Committee supports the re-examination of the emergency legislation, including that in line with the Innst. S. No 9, to focus the search light on clear command lines and the grey zones that exist between war, crisis and peace. Personally, I'm very busy with the sea and the coast. Norway has jurisdiction over a sea area seven times our territory. In addition, this is between the most productive and resource-rich marine areas in the world. Both the Defence and the Coastal Works play an important role in maritime surveillance and traffic control, and in Innst. S. No 9 I am pleased with the crisis management command that was created on Retan. I still think that Reitan has an important role to play as a center of preparedness and surveillance in the Norwegian Sea, not least because of the role that the sea has as a feeder for large parts of the world. Oil transport from Russia is a tragedy in this way. It is therefore gratifying that a joint committee has taken inwards that Norway is responsible for these large resource-rich sea areas and, in line with this, a need for extensive coastal surveillance. There must be cooperation between civil and military authorities. The Committee has also noted that the detailed design of the traffic centre in Vardø has started and that until the central centre is operational, shipping in North Norway will be maintained by the Swedish Coastal Station and through cooperation with the Defence Agency. This cooperation is important, because our oil protection preparedness also depends on the functioning of this. Any future climate change could also affect how weather phenomena can address Norwegian conditions. In an increasingly globalised world, the challenges elsewhere can affect Norwegian society directly, but also indirectly. Changes in the course of their golf stream and the consequences of it might seem like examples. To solve these challenges that we face, it is important that society's total resources are linked. It's both right and important. Cooperation between civil and military institutions must work on a small society that we can tackle with the worst prospects. Within the framework of a global concept of social security and vulnerability, these institutions may be required to solve joint tasks. In modern vulnerable society, the defence of civil society is an important part of total defence, a resource that will need to be used in major disasters. Finally, a few words about social security and privatisation: society is not a private enterprise. Not everything that happens can be measured in dollars and cents. Other thoughts must also be included. They're the ones who claim there's too many economists, but they do their job as best they can. But their job is not primarily to think about security. Their job is to increase efficiency. It is possible that one can demonstrate that privatisation of support functions gives a short-term gain, but what about the emergency assessments? The Labour Party would point out that there is very little distribution of the consequences of increasing the use and purchase of private services from civil private operators for society as a whole. In the work of a more secure society, I think once again I have to stress that economic assessments are not enough. The work on social security differs in so many areas from other activities that one should watch carefully before taking tasks out of the public domain. These tasks can easily be traced back to the public. One should not underestimate the knowledge that can be lost when transferring tasks that are currently being performed by public service personnel. This is underlined by the fact that there are competences attached to the performance of public etats, e.g. The defence, which cannot necessarily be transferred to the civil sector. This could make someone think about it several times, I hope. The government should therefore spend more time on consequences that also take into account circumstances other than purely economic ones. And then finally, I'm going to label it in kilograms. The resolution of 29 October set down a selection to assess the best possible way of preserving national security and vital interests in non-public activities. In addition, the selection shall identify the tools used to safeguard vital national interests when public interests are privatised. The Labour Party supports the reduction of this selection, but you can wonder why it only happens now. Privatisation of public enterprises is not exactly new to this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e310	In connection with St.prp. No 42 for 2003–2004 on the modernisation of defence became the majority, among others. with the Labour Party, agree to reduce Home Protection by up to 33,000 men/women, and the number of Home Protection Districts was also significantly reduced. This was the anti-Progression Party, among others. because we would lose a lot of local knowledge, and not least belonging, which could be very good and useful to have in the event of a possible crisis or disaster. The Progress Party also believes that with the structure and organisation of the new Home Security system, it will take longer to get to the site. How will the Workers' Party compensate for this great disadvantage by the fact that these 33 000 people do not get training and enough equipment to be ready for assignment when this would be desirable? The flood of the East in 1995 showed just how strong, handsome and capable the people of Homeland could be in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e317	In connection with the treatment of the long-term defence plan, it is true that the Home Protection Agency was up to date. I just have to remind the representative, Bredvold, that there are still 33 000 participants in the Home Office and can be mobilised. But what has been important to us is to have an effort force in Homeland Protection that represents quality, and with the competence to move out to solve tasks both in Norway and across borders. We cannot equip ourselves with a structure that is so extensive that we cannot afford to add a content and get equipment for those who are going to join this force. So I think that exactly what was done in connection with St.prp. No 42, in no way is a weakening of the efforts of Homeland Protection when crises arise at home or outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e322	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e325	The right is pleased that there is agreement on the main lines of the message we are processing. Norway shall be perceived as a safe and secure country to live in. This calls for a continuous focus on social security. The government has in St.meld. No 39 for 2003–04 highlights the follow-up to this focus through prevention activities, through the organisation of crisis preparedness and through the framework for response when the crisis is a fact. Three basic principles have been drawn up for the work on social security: firstly, that the person with a responsibility in the normal situation also has a responsibility in the event of exceptional events; secondly, that the organisation that operates to the day should be as similar as that in which one is in crisis; and thirdly, that crises should be handled at the lowest possible level. The government is the chief executive of the state apparatus and is accountable to Stortinget. Therefore, responsibility for the organisation of the state apparatus should lie with the government. Parliamentary practice has confirmed this. It is in our parliamentary and constitutional habits that the government should initially be free to decide how the state apparatus should be organised. In this is that Stortinget has been very restrained in relation to intervening in the government's organisation of the state board. This does not mean that the Storing should not be able to give advice or other forms of political leadership. This can and does the Storing in different ways. For example, appropriations and laws could lead to, or limit, government action rooms. On the other hand, the size should be careful to take binding instructions in such areas. Such instructions may, in turn, make it difficult for the Storting to carry out its control task, by allowing the Storting to come into a situation where critical conditions can be directly traced back to the Storting's instructions to the Government. A majority of the Committee appears to be willing to go above this precautionary line when the following statement is made in the vote: ‘The majority therefore believe that organisational inconsistencies should be resolved by establishing a crisis management unit that delegates and allocates responsibilities in line with the content of the crisis situation’.» One thing is that the majority here seems to be moving across that precautionary line. Another thing is that it's hard to see the need that's being created here. The function referred to here is already provided by the existing arrangements, such as the ministerial council meeting in the event of crises, and the coordination responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Police. The departments most affected by the crisis must have the primary responsibility for coordination. If there is uncertainty, the Ministry of Justice and Police must clarify the coordination responsibility with the departments concerned. In the event of disagreement on liability, the Ministry of Justice and Police must ensure effective coordination of civil crisis management at the central level until the government has dealt with the matter. In addition, the Prime Minister’s office can always take the initiative to establish a specific organisation of central crisis management. Right, Christian People's Party and Left have chosen to stress that we need a flexible crisis management system. It is important that established structures can be easily adapted to changes. Permanent crisis management bodies can be strongly adapted to previous crisis situations and are not flexible enough to deal with what is different. It is the organisation responsible for a daily matter area that will be best equipped to deal with current crisis situations. The Judicial Committee has also delivered an opinion on the matter. The Committee has agreed to the present observations but has made a clarification of the definition of the total defence. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Justice has set up a sample to deliver the adjustment during the next year, a sample to ensure the protection of the country's critical infrastructure, which was also pointed out by the representative of Tveiten. However, the workers' party's perhaps a bit of a hoax over the fact that this has not happened before falls on its own unfairness. Transport, data, telephony, etc. Fortunately, neither was it during the Workers' Party's operating time 100 pst. public owned. It is therefore good that the Minister of Justice has now taken this initiative and has ensured that this aspect of social security will also be well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e355	It is a little strange that the representative of Greece from the Right does not fully accept the responsibility of the public in the event of an accident. I find it even more strange that the Right in its policy is not a bit more consistent. Int. S. No 9 for 2002–03, the right was one of the parties in favour of a central crisis management unit. What is the social trend that makes it impossible for the Right this time to support what was right two years ago, i.e. a standing crisis management centre? Former Prime Minister Willoch goes further and proposes a separate department. Does Willoch have an experience that we should listen to? The experience shows that there is a lot of controversy between the floors in such a setup that the Right adds up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e362	I made quite clear in my post what the Right has meant and stands for in this matter. What is important here is that the Storing should be careful to impose organisational changes on the Government. It must be up to the Government itself to consider. But we have joined a Roman proposal to ask the Government to evaluate this and come back to the Storting in an appropriate way. I think it's important to have flexibility and the ability to handle this in a way that's adapted to the individual situation. I have full confidence that the Ministry of Justice can do this in a good way. I'm a little surprised that the Workers' Party, with its long and heavy governance traditions, now seems to want to jump on a policy where it's the Stortinge that's going to organise the state apparatus, and not the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e369	My question/comment to the representative of Greece goes to the shelter. Many shelters have been built, but it turns out that it is too small. In a city such as Hamar is 200 shelters, while 400 are really needed to accommodate the city's inhabitants. When you look at the use of shelters today – they are used as warehouses and for completely different things than as real shelters – the question is: What will the representative of Greece and the Right do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e376	At least the representative of Greece will not go from this pulpit into how many shelters there are in Gjøvik. It is a little surprising that the angle of the Advance Party in this case is refuge spaces. I assume, and take it for granted, that with the organisation Norway has in terms of preparedness, crisis management, etc., this will be taken care of and assessed on an ongoing basis by the responsible authority. Norway may have one of the best preparedness systems in the world, and I think we have little shame over it. That some shelters have been used for other things up over the years, I am well acquainted with. I myself have been to the disco in a shelter. But that there should not be enough capacity to deal with the situation and the threat facing Norway now, I strongly doubt. This has to be handled by the responsible authority, and not by us who are sitting here in Stortingen and have just mastered knowledge. I think we can do this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e384	The President will hope that the disco search in a shelter was a one-time event.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e387	Thus, an overall committee believes that the Government should address the issue of a central crisis management unit responsible for the coordination of departments and relevant departments in the event of crises. The representative of Greece now strongly argues that the existing structure is the only right one and that the Storting is now crossing a border. Why, then, is the Right in favour of the proposal to investigate this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e394	Like the first line, this was an unnecessary line, because I gave the answer in my post, namely that it's actually not the task of the Storting to point out in detail how the Government is going to organize its work and the state apparatus. I also said that we support the Roman Numeration proposal to ask the Government to assess this and come back to Stortinget. I expect the representative Bjørklund and others to have confidence that the Government wants to establish a crisis management system that works as smoothly as possible and that is as flexible as possible. When the government gives feedback that the model they've chosen actually works and is the best, well, we'll take note of it and say it's good. But that this has to be kept under constant review, I don't think anyone disagrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e399	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e402	The chairperson of the Judicial Committee has just stated that the Storting should be careful to intervene in the structure of the administration. I agree, but careful doesn't necessarily mean that you shouldn't have any points of view, nor never interfere. You just have to be careful and not make it a common cause. With regard to the views of the public and political parties and groups on the preparedness for terrorism, it is clear that if the solution chosen by the Government for the crisis management organisation is not good enough and does not provide the security that the population deserves, it is of course the duty of the representatives of the big business to take it up and promote proposals to do something about the organisation. When we dealt with the setting for St.meld. No 17, the Progress Party went in order to have a central crisis management unit, a directorate to be under the Prime Minister's office, just to get a central handling at the highest political level. We're still on it, but this time we're content to come forward with a proposal that reads like this: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement the main elements of the proposals of the Vulnerability Committee chaired by Kåre Willoch.’ I think that in this area we should pay some attention to what Kåre Willoch has been working on, if you don't do it in all the other areas that he's always saying. But here I think you should listen to a former Prime Minister. The paper is a good and good review in very many areas of security work, but we in the Progress Party find that it is too little concrete to focus on terrorism and counter-terrorism. We believe that there are many incidents in the world concerning the development of terrorism, and in particular that the context of religious fanaticism and political extremism is not affected in the communication. The vast majority of acts of terrorism come from fanatics who are followers of Islam, often referred to as Islamists. We believe that the Communication does not present enough key risk factors, and that it is deficient in the publicity of who can address terrorist-like attacks against Norwegian society. We believe that the greatest international terrorist threat today comes from actors who profess political Islam, often referred to as Islamists. Islamists stand for a radicalized and politicized variant of Muslim fundamentalism that addresses directly to the open society. I point out that the terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September 2001 were not just attacks against American society, or against the then U.S. administration. It was an attack against the free world and the values on which free, liberal societies are based. The United States was hit on 11 September, but later terrorists belonging to extreme Muslim groups have also turned to other parts of the world, such as Indonesia, Spain and Russia. Thanks to intelligence, a number of acts of terrorism have also been stopped in time. We believe that there are terrorists with a keen political-religious agenda on the rise, and that their agenda is the very opposite of Western, liberal and Christian values. We believe that there is reason to take seriously the spread of Islamist terrorist organisations. As these political religious groups deliberately establish themselves through cell activities and often in open, liberal, democratic societies where they can plan in peace for the involvement of authorities, we will assume that Norway can also be a possible point of reference for such groupings. That is why, in our opinion, it is wiser to be prepared and plan in relation to possible unpleasant developments than to rely on Norway as a small country that no terrorists have an interest in harming. It was also shown yesterday on TV 2 in Document 2 that the Vice-Chairman in Al Qaida has clearly stated that Norway is a target of terrorism. I assume that the Minister of Justice has also joined in this. There is cause for concern when Al Zawari actually appoints Norway as a target of terrorism. Then it is a little strange that this topic is almost not affected in the message. I would like to point out that, over several years, France has been pursuing a tight and successful policy of combating terrorism, and specifically in relation to Islamic terrorism. France has had a firm policy on the expulsion of imams spreading hate messages, as well as leading Islamists seeking safe bases from which they can operate. In our opinion, there should be no room for Islamists who spread ideas that go across Norwegian law and law, to have their base in our society. Therefore, for safety and preventive reasons, it should be easier to expel the apostles of such hatred. We believe it is worth listening to the French Minister of the Interior, Dominique de Villepin, when he points out that there is a fine balance between security and civil rights, and when he insists that society must never put itself in the position that it becomes powerless against the challenges it faces in relation to terrorism. We point out that France is monitoring the activity of 1,500 places of prayer, 50 of which preach a radical form of Islam. We are of the opinion that although not radical Muslim organisations or communities will necessarily carry out violence in practice, these can act as focal points for actors who want to terrorise society and can therefore produce terrorists. We should therefore take the initiative to learn from France and other countries about the work they are doing to stop possible terrorist acts before they happen. However, I would like – because many people often try to misunderstand what we say from the Progress Party – to stress that it is not Islam or Muslims in general that pose a danger, but it is the individuals or groups that interpret their religion with the eyes of extremists that pose the threat. We therefore believe that it would be in the interest of the ordinary Norwegian Muslims, as good and law-abiding citizens of Norwegian society, to join in a common struggle to reveal possible Islamists who have infiltrated the Norwegian Muslim communities. This requires greater transparency and increased cooperation between the authorities and the various Muslim communities in Norway. We also put forward a proposal to have an approval system for imams. It must be organised in such a way that the authorities can have access to what is happening in the other enclosed spaces. In other countries, legislation is also being discussed to require the use of the national language. I will not conclude or believe anything about it today. But we have to get an approval system, check where imams come from, what background they have, and what they've learned in the past. We should, so that we prevent a radical form of Islam from flourishing here in Norway too. With regard to police and defence cooperation, we believe that this should be good and close, and that there is a need for some degree of reconciliation against major terrorist acts and major actions in Norway. We write in the statement that here it is especially the defense that has the heavy equipment and the great competence, but of course the police special emergency squad also has considerable competence and is professional in this area. But the response force is not as large as it might be, and that is why we have allowed ourselves to point out that within Defence there are considerable forces that have learned from terrorist treatment in other countries. Those who have been in Afghanistan and in actions elsewhere have acquired considerable competence. It's a different kind of competence from that of the police. However, we clearly state that it is the police who are to be responsible, and that it is the police who are to be in charge if there are events where there is talk of getting defence forces in order to take part in an action. It is clear that the police are also well equipped with their emergency squad and the training they have, but we believe that cooperation between the Defence and the police should be strengthened in the future. Finally, I will be allowed to raise the three proposals from the Progress Party. I will refer to these: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the security measures in place to keep track of the Islamic environment in Norway, which provides extreme attitudes that go beyond the values on which Norwegian society is built, and to consider further measures to limit the potential of these environments to develop.’ I assume that the Minister of Justice can confirm that this is already being monitored and controlled, but we are asking that a new assessment be made as to whether this is good enough. Our other proposal is: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider any approval scheme for imams to operate in Norwegian mosques in order to reduce the possibility of establishing environments around these mosques that could serve to counter the security interests of Norwegian society.’ I have referred to the third proposal earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e449	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e454	The representative Hagen spends a lot of time on Islamist fundamentalists as a group that needs to be monitored. I agree, and I assume that the police do. However, the representative, Mr Hagen, can give priority to other extreme groups that should be monitored, for example: nynazists, European neo-Nazi networks, left-wing extremists, perhaps extreme Christian groups and environmental extremists? With his experience, will Hagen give other groups priority to me and Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e461	The answer to Gunnar Halvorsen's question is yes. It is also in the setting in our notes, which I can refer to: ‘These members point to an increase in the activity of remote-right groups. Norway and the Nordic countries have experienced some political violence from far right and racist groups. Violence has focused primarily on asylum seekers and refugees, Norwegian anti-racists and some representatives of the Norwegian authorities. The extreme right environment in Norway may, in the opinion of these members, pose a threat to the authorities, persons of foreign origin, anti-racists and persons who publicly distance themselves from the environment.’» So here we are in complete agreement. All extreme environments and all those who have suggested or committed violent acts, as well as extreme animal protection, are also groups that I obviously assume are appropriate for the authorities. But I want it confirmed. I have a concern, namely that the insight of the Stortinget into what is actually being done by part of our apparatus, among other things. of PST and others, is approximately equal to zero. It is a situation that I do not find satisfactory either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e471	The Progress Party and the representative Hagen are deeply concerned with the view that terrorism is a huge threat to Norwegian society and that the threat of terrorism comes mainly from one group of people, which is closely mentioned in the note of the Progress Party: ‘activators who profess political Islam, often referred to as Islamists’. I want to distance myself from the stamping of large groups of people, as the representative Hagen does in this remark. In the same note, the Party of Advances is in favour of the defence being given a greater task than today, in the field of counter-terrorism. As stated in the comment, they believe it is ‘natural that the defence is more involved in anti-terrorism preparedness than is the case today’. How does the representative, Mr Hagen, want the defence to have a more significant role in anti-terrorism preparedness? Would this not lead to a blending and stepping up of the drug use in order to deal with the terrorist threat?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e482	I really don't understand how the replicator is able to make himself believe, or hear, that we've attacked some large groups of people. I made it very clear in my post that I was talking about the political extreme Islamists, and I was talking about the many – the great majority – law-abiding and good Muslims in Norwegian society. So why in the world do you make accusations that you know are directly wrong? I also think that SV could scratch itself from the low level of the debate that is now under way. We must be able to talk about the same thing as everyone else who reads newspapers and sees TV, namely that the vast majority – the vast majority – of acts of terrorism taking place in the world today are being carried out in the name of Allah by political fundamentalists and Islamists. In countries by country, that's what happens. We have a significant group of Muslims in Norway. In the Netherlands, after the Van Gogh killing, it has been said that you have to expect 5 pst. of the number of Muslims may belong to the Islamists, and then we have a significant number also in Norway. Now SV must also start to wake up soon in terms of the fear that Norwegian citizens also feel when they join newspapers and television.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e491	The Labour Party and the Advance Party agree on a few essential prerequisites for a good civil protection. One is a central crisis management unit, and the other is a necessary civil-military cooperation. But when we come to surveillance, like the representative Bjørklund, I now have to ask who Hagen really wants to monitor. Now he emphasizes that it is the ‘political extreme Islamists’, if I understood him correctly, and there is an important delimitation on the part of Hagen in this hall. However, the attitude may at least be such that the representative Hagen and the Progress Party want to monitor the broad, large Muslim groups in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e497	There is no coverage whatsoever for what Marit Nybakk now claims, in our comments in the setting. She must have read them as a certain man reads the Bible, in order to find out that we should have the broad peoples in mind. Non-compliance – what we want is professional work by the police security service, because you have to find out where some imams might preach a radical form of Islam. You have to have an overview of this. That is why we want an authorisation system, so that you can separate the clint from the wheat, so that you can find out who, if any, has positions that should lead to their monitoring, and who – the great majority – are ordinary people who want peace and quiet and who do not have such attitudes. It is not the broad groups that need to be looked after, but it is those that have extreme views. It's possible to follow – and I assume you do – even if we don't have any insight into what's going on – in who's in the political extremes. We must be able to learn from other countries. I allow myself here again to challenge the Minister of Justice to comment on better cooperation – and take advantage of what we can learn – with France, and also to ask him to learn from what has happened in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e502	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e505	In this main article, I will focus on three aspects of social security and civil-military cooperation: the relationship with the privatisation of infrastructure, the relationship with climate change and the relationship with terrorism. But first: Norwegian society has traditionally been a robust society, which has a good ability to deal with crisis situations. The size was quite a short time ago through St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002, which addressed a number of issues related to social security work. The message we are now processing addresses individual themes that were asked for in the context of this big business message, and some new themes. There is – with few exceptions – a broad consensus in the Storting on these issues, and that is natural and good. Much of the work on social security can be understood by the principles on which the Communication is based: the principle of responsibility, which means that those responsible for normal situations are also responsible for the crisis principle of equality, which means that the organisation operating on a daily basis is as similar as that to deal with the crisis principle of proximity, which means that crises must be handled at the lowest possible level; These are sensible principles that provide a framework for social security work. Norwegian society is changing rapidly. New technology is now developing faster than we thought was possible a few years ago. It changes the everyday life of each of us: transport patterns, shopping habits, leisure activities – in all areas we become increasingly dependent on the outside world. We're no longer self-absorbed, as we were a couple of generations ago. It means something about how we can deal with unforeseen situations or crises. A long-lasting power break quickly has major consequences when the rooms get cold, the stove does not work, the food in the freezer becomes inedible and the mobile battery is flat. These are completely simple things that we're not going to spend too much time on here. But the consequences of vulnerable technology are that it works fine when it works, but is completely useless when it doesn't work. This is why it is important that, in all planning and day-to-day practice, we put in large enough margins and alternative solutions to enable society to function even in a crisis situation. It doesn't always seem that this is sufficiently focused. Norway has become a country in which the market economy lies, and where the private market is taking on more and more of what has previously belonged to us all through collective welfare services. Privatisation of public activities is the trademark of the current government in many ways. SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have made clear comments in this setting against more privatisation of public infrastructure. The climate, the global climate, has at all times undergone change, but the rate of global warming over the next hundred years is estimated by the Intergovernmental Panel to be higher than the world has experienced in at least 10,000 years. Changes in climate patterns may mean that the climate becomes more unpredictable. What exactly this will mean, we don't know so much about yet. However, for Norway, this can be done, for example: mean an increased frequency of local floods and greater variations in winter temperature. This will mean a great deal for the future work on social security in many areas. There is a growing consensus that we can already observe a anthropogenic influence on the climate system today. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change concluded in its latest main report that our greenhouse gas emissions have a large share of the responsibility for the climate change we have seen in the last 50 years. We have to deal with the fact that the global climate will change in the future as well. To date, the focus has been on developing countries, which are expected to be the most hit. However, increasing attention is also being paid to Norway and other European countries. In the last hundred years, temperatures have increased in most Norwegian regions by between 0.4 °C and 1.2 °C. The research suggests that we can expect an increase in the average temperature of between 1 °C and 2 °C between 1980 and 2000 and the period 2030 to 2050. Climate change observed in Norway is consistent with observations at global level. The fight against climate change can only take place through joint efforts and through committed international cooperation, as facilitated by the Kyoto Agreement. The reasoning is simple: global emissions need to be reduced. Then all countries have to deal with this agency. Russia is now joining the Kyoto Protocol. It's a joyous and an important step. But big countries, like the United States, remain. This work on international agreements to reduce climate change needs to be further strengthened, and SV believes that this Communication does not place sufficient emphasis on this and that this work needs to be reinforced. In addition, with the exception of the Progress Party, the Committee believes that the Government must continue to work out the real impact of climate change and the measures in place in all sectors of society. This is an important step in getting an overview of the impacts of climate change. This is necessary not only to clarify what kind of challenges we face when the climate changes, but also for the debate on how we can strengthen efforts to limit climate change before they arrive. We have to take reality inwards. So here it's important to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. It may be difficult, but it'll work. Terrorism has been widely discussed since 11 September 2001, but it is not a new phenomenon. For generations, different groups have used terrorist acts as a means of achieving a political outcome. The level of threat posed by terrorism to a society is primarily linked to the combination of an actor's willingness to attack and the ability to do just that. In its research project ‘Terrorism and Asymmetric Warfare — TERRA project’, the Swedish Defence Research Institute has highlighted some of the developments in today’s terrorism, which have been made in the Single European Act. The conclusion is that Norway, compared with some other countries, is an unlikely target for terrorist acts. We're gonna be happy for that. The combination of the level of will to attack and the degree of ability together represents the magnitude of the threat. For SV, it is important for the international community to reach jointly the steps that will prevent the emergence of terrorism from developing, i.e. those that have the most impact. We believe that military instruments are ill-suited to stop terrorism. When the acts of terrorism have taken place, it's basically too late. Avoiding acts of terrorism — preventing them, removing the basis for the will to attack. Then there may be other means than warfare in e.g. Afghanistan is more active. The fight against terrorism is primarily the task of everyone other than the Defence, and I am pleased that the Government and the Stortinget uphold the principle that the police are responsible for preventing, investigating and combating any terrorist attacks in Norway. This is a very important principle, because it places the responsibility to handle this type of action where it should be. These are criminal acts that have to be handled by the department that handles criminal acts in this country, namely the police. There may be situations in which the police have to seek assistance from other actors in society, as happened after 11 September 2001, when fighter aircraft were recruited for a period of time. If military resources are to be requested, this shall be done if the physical and human resources of the police do not extend. The peaceful use of defence resources must depend on an identified civil need. This is fixed, and it's still going to do that. Finally, I would like to note with pleasure that a joint committee asks the Government to carry out a comprehensive review of the disarmament and non-proliferation work that Norway is doing. I'm glad of this. International efforts for disarmament are at stake, and it is essential that Norway makes its overall best contribution to strengthening the work on disarmament and non-proliferation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e561	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e564	My question goes to a joint comment that SV and the Center Party have together, on food grain storage and seed storage. I wonder if it is really as necessary now as it was before, as we have a lot of wholesale warehouses spread around in Norway, also in the places in Norway mentioned. They have an ISO standard that's good, they have a logistics system that works, and they also have a transport system that works. Not least there's a big roll of the goods, and so you'd think it might be interesting for these two parties. Of course, it will also be much cheaper to buy this service. I would therefore like to ask SV: can you consider whether this can also be a possible solution for these two parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e571	The crisis may involve the long-term absence of long-distance transport, and the availability of food is crucial for a society that also operates in a crisis situation. The SV and the Central Party believe, although it is a functioning market, that there may be scope for maintaining or restoring stocks that have a different perspective from that market at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e578	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e581	The attitude and also the debate here today show that there is broad agreement on many of the important issues related to social security and preparedness. That's good. It's also necessary. The centre party is concerned with the broad starting point for social security which was selected in the Communication and which has also been discussed in the suspension – both the relation to preparedness in the various societal fields, the relationship with cooperation between civil and military units, preparedness as part of the new overall defence concept, as well as crisis management and terrorist threats more specifically. But despite the broad consensus, there are still some fields where dissenting opinions exist. For its part, the centre party cannot agree to sign that the modernisation of the defence now in progress will be a strength for the overall preparedness of the Norwegian community. On the contrary, we are afraid that the modernisation that is now being carried out by the Defence will weaken the overall preparedness. The role of defence in relation to territorial responsibility will be reduced. The ability of the defence to exercise sovereignty, not least in marine areas, will be reduced. The position of the Home Protection system will be reduced. On the part of the Centre Party, there is no doubt that the capacity of the Home Protection Agency to mobilise in crisis situations will be reduced as a result of the strong reduction in the manning of the Home Security resulting from the modernisation. The centre party is also concerned that the ability of the Coast Guard to contribute to the overall preparedness will be reduced as a result of the change in defence that is now being seen. There are several speakers who have pointed out the relationship between police and defence and the responsibilities of the various agencies in this way. The centre party considers it necessary to stress that it is the police who have overall responsibility for anti-terrorism preparedness, and we believe it is important that it is emphasised by the committee. Of course, cooperation is necessary in some areas, but there should be no slipping transitions in the area of responsibility between police and defence. There must be a clear division of roles here, and when the defence is involved, if necessary, it must be based on clear allocations of responsibilities in the individual and given situations. An example of this is the case where good crisis management will depend, for example, on: Air defence capabilities. The centre party also considers that it is important for the police to be able to discharge their responsibilities in this field that the resources are proportionate to the tasks to be actually carried out. That is why there is also an important part of the discussion on preparedness in this area in relation to anti-terrorism, that there is a police force that has resources that enable them to discharge their responsibilities in this way. Like the Workers' Party and SV, the Centre Party is also concerned with environmental and climate policies, as part of a more general image in terms of social security and preparedness. There is no doubt that developments in the environment and climate are also contributing to increased vulnerability in our own society. It also has an impact on the broad picture of social security. The Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party have also pointed out that privatisation of vital areas of society, not only in transport and infrastructure, but also in the energy sector, makes them more vulnerable than necessary. The same applies if access to some of the most central areas related to transport and infrastructure becomes too tight. I think there's reason to point it out as an important element in that way. There are a number of proposals for consideration here today that will have a majority. That's good, too. But I have to say that when it comes to e.g. the question of a central crisis management unit, it is a paradox if the Right and Christian People's Party are today to vote in favour of a proposal that they are holding at arm's length here in the debate. You either get to be for what you're for, or you get to vote against. It is not possible to stand here on the platform and argue against something you will vote for later today. Nor does it benefit, as the representative of Greece from the Right, to say that this is about an ongoing assessment. That is not what the proposal is all about. The proposal is about a concrete investigation into the type of central crisis management unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e602	The government follows up on this message Input. S. No 9 for 2002-2003, followed up by St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002 Social security and the decision on the parallel treatment of long-term military defence and civil protection plans. Taking into account the Committee's comments, the changes in security policy and the further modernisation of defence, the Government places particular emphasis on describing civil-military cooperation and the development of overall defence. In St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002 Social security provided the Government with measures to strengthen the work on social security. Based on the comments of the Justice Committee and the Defence Committee, see: Inner. S. No 9 for 2002–03, briefing the Government in this Communication on the status of some actions. The notification does not intend to explain the safety and preparedness work in all sectors. The threat picture is more complex and less transparent than it was before. International terrorist acts have shown that we must have the ability to face crisis situations on short notice. A comprehensive and good preparedness is necessary even when society is not faced with acute threats. A number of organisational changes have been made in the field of social security in recent years. The role of the Ministry of Justice in coordination and supervision has been clarified and strengthened, inter alia: in the establishment of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, 1 September 2003 and by providing the National Safety Authority with a professional line of responsibility to the Ministry of Justice in the civil sector. The establishment of the DSB has provided a common authority line from central to local level in the fields of fire, rescue, prevention and general preparedness and a common operational and coordinating environment for events at central, regional and local level. Civil defence is reorganized from 40 circuits to 20 districts. A presentation of central crisis management and the assessment of the Government has been made in the paper. We have a well-tested and flexible crisis management system that can be adapted to different challenges. Our crisis management system facilitates the day-to-day organisation responsible for a matter of concern to be as well equipped as possible to deal with current crisis situations. The Government has proposed that, in serious crisis situations, a separate ministerial council composed of the departments concerned and the Prime Minister's office will be set up. In this way, the situation will be managed quickly and further treatment agreed. I record the resolution's proposal for a decision that the Government is asked to address the issue of a central crisis management unit that, in the event of a crisis, will be responsible for coordination by departments and departments, which must be operational in the emergency response. I want to make sure that this is properly followed up and reported back to Stortinget, so that the Storting can deal with this question. Social security and preparedness are an important part of the mission portfolio of the Ministry of Justice. I am concerned that as well as the ministry as my external offices have the best possible prerequisites for dealing with crises that could arise. This calls for good practice in the ministry and good interaction with other actors. The development of a common digital radio link for fire services, police and health is an important national initiative to strengthen the work on social security and preparedness. It is with pleasure that I see the position underlying this matter in connection with the consideration of the Ministry of Justice's budget for next year, which will take place in this Chamber in two days' time. The diversity of the threats facing society poses significant safety challenges for a number of sectors. Over the last few years, several measures have been implemented to reduce vulnerability, for example: in the field of information security, power supply, transport and food security. There is a need for an overall approach to the question of how the national security of vital infrastructure and national interests can be ensured in relation to different non-public activities. The government has therefore established a sample to secure the country’s critical infrastructure. I look forward to the report of the sample, and I would like to stress here that the work of the sample is very important. It's e.g. important to make such choices as the Government made when assessing the situation of Great Norwegian on Svalbard. One added a partial privatisation because, to use it as an example, it was thought that Great Norske is a vital instrument for the exercise of a Norwegian Svalbard policy. I am quite sure that the sample set up will also assess this in a number of key areas of society. We have mentioned ourselves in the mission of the sample that we should look at water supply, telecommunications and power supply as important areas – where is what we need to own, where is what we need to have controlling ownership, and where can we deal with regulation? The active substances and the buckle must be placed on the table. And let me add: I have personally met some of the Americans who were to lead the coordination work in setting up their new security department. I could see the significant challenges they faced. Norway is another type of society, and there is every reason to have the investigation work now under way. Even I would call it a natural follow-up of the Willoch committee's vulnerability work that we are now getting this investigation work, which is important to our society. It's commented by several speakers in the past, but I find reason to stress it. Because we have good arrangements, we have to keep the good arrangements. If we leave them, we'll know why we're doing it. We need to be absolutely sure that this mirror is kept up in the social debate on privatisation and outsourcing. And let me stress: I'm not the private-practicing government council from the Left who says this. It is the Government that has given this mandate, and it is the Government that has started work, because the Government feels that this is important, and because, among other things, we. Based on the Sem Declaration, it is clear that there are areas where it is precisely politically essential to have control also through ownership or controlling ownership. With regard to societal basic preparedness, it is ensured by facilitating the prevention and management of daily and exceptional events by individuals, non-governmental organisations, businesses and emergency centres. Emergency measures — fire, police and health — are continuously aimed at ensuring the best possible management of serious incidents, including: by carrying out exercises, developing crisis management plans and efficient organisations. The preparedness for mass-destructive agents has been significantly strengthened in recent years. We have focused on increasing competence and strengthening resources in emergency situations and in civil defence. This effort is being made both in the defence sector and in the civil sector. As indicated by St.prp. No 1 for the Ministry of Defence 2004-2005, the Government plans to improve the defence’s ability to protect military forces against mass destruction. I will also, within my area of competence, continuously assess whether preparedness in this area should be further strengthened. A comprehensive and modern total defence is based on mutual support and optimal resource use between Defence and civil society. There is today a close and integrated cooperation between Defence and civil society. The rescue helicopter service is an example of civil-military co-operation, where defence resources make a significant contribution to civil security. Another example is the Defence Coastal Preparedness and Operational Management Organisation, KYBAL, for Rescue Preparedness Assistance. I take note of the vote on the proposal for a decision on a review of emergency legislation, including: for the preparation of command line and the definition of grey zones in emergency situations. In St.meld. No 39 The Government joins in the conclusions of the Emergency Commission, cf. NOU 1995:31, «Security legislation in the light of changed defence and security policy framework conditions», stating that § 3 of the Emergency Act is a fully sufficient «residence» to deal with current crisis scenarios. I will facilitate an appropriate follow-up to the proposal for a decision to review emergency legislation. I understand that we still have to try this, because we can still face situations we didn't think about yesterday. That is why, of course, I also perceive what the Stortinge suggests here, as an unusually constructive contribution to the work that we have to do for never to rest in yesterday's events, but still be in the present day, and bring with us enough of what I would call the 'terrorism moment' to understand that at least a few minutes a month we should think about the unusual, not risking being taken to bed that day the unusual thing had to happen. Even if the threat of terror is low, we can't act like it's never going to happen. In the fight against terrorism, good cooperation on intelligence is crucial. This requires close contact between the Police Security Service, the Police, the Defence, the National Security Authority and foreign cooperating services. Police are primarily responsible for preventing, investigating and combating acts of terrorism, and have good resources and training for this. Liability between police and defence has been clarified. The police may ask the defence for assistance according to their own instructions which contain practical guidelines for rapid and safe assessment and action. In some situations, the police may need assistance for watchkeeping and security over a longer period of time. Home security plays a particularly important role in situations where there is a need for strengthened watchkeeping around societally critical functions and objects. The government wants to emphasise cooperation between civil and military authorities. In this context, exercises are of great importance in order to ensure good coordination and identification of common challenges. In addition, exercises may help to strengthen international cooperation. Norway is actively participating in civil-military cooperation at international level, including: in the framework of NATO and the United Nations. To secure our society, we depend on different forces contributing in their own way. I would like to thank the Committees for their important views. It is that it is in common that we must ensure the necessary attention to the continuous work of creating a safe society. Let me conclude by saying that the perspective of vulnerability in truth is wide. It goes on the one hand from major accidents, which fortunately we avoided at Lillestrøm, via e.g. The day when there was going to be a big mountain trail – let’s hope that it doesn’t – to situations where we would risk having a pandemic, that is, a new global epidemic of influenza, and to the situation where many have been concerned in this room, namely terror, where people will try to spread fear and paralyze a society in different ways. All this tension must be brought with us when we talk about social security and the vulnerability of society. Although not all aspects have been addressed in this big message, at the end of this article I want to stress that this is what we need to bring. It rests at last on a line of responsibility where people's competence and ability to be able to congregate against the unfamiliar is absolutely crucial. I want to do my part to make sure that vigilance is there. And let me eat it this way: we have to think at least five minutes a week on the unfamiliar, not to risk being unprepared on the day it might occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e647	We are addressing a growing message of social security and civil-military cooperation, i.e.: with a focus on civil-military cooperation, and it is currently an important part of Norwegian defence and security policy. Then it is also important that this is not a sort of coercion in the Ministry of Justice, but given top priority along with the necessary reorganization of defence to adapt to new threats. When we focus so much on central responsibility, it has a connection with experience from both exercises and events, not only in Norway but in Europe. In an exercise at Oslo S in the last year, five different state institutions debated who had the ultimate responsibility. When we say that we want a central crisis management unit, it is precisely to get to an agency that can intervene when the Food Authority and the Health Authority cannot agree in the municipality of Bergen on who is responsible for the poisoning, i.e. an agency that intervenes and says so. In addition, civil-military cooperation, as underlined by the Council of State, will also mean a continuous review of emergency legislation and the need to change it. I would ask that it be confirmed that this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e653	I have to think of it as an incubator that preparedness work is a "big shift" in the Ministry of Justice, especially for me as the Council of State. I want to remind you that it was I who in his time put down the Willoch Committee, with the mission that he would create creative unrest. I would like to point out that I have submitted important messages, and I would like to show that in many important areas I have been involved in intelligence and security work, so of course there is no rush. But I see the representative constructively. It's always the way to learn something from this. I have even participated in exercises that work well, but because we can never be 100 pst. Make sure of that, I'm going to participate in several exercises. I am also going to promote the initiative to get a broad civil protection exercise, because it is absolutely necessary for civil services to be coordinated. We now get an example in the north, in Barents Resque, but we also need a national here at home, and I want to follow exercises just to make sure that everything is clear. But in the exercises I've been following, for example. in collaboration with Defense, Exercise Kristiania and many others, it looks as if people know well what they're doing, and how they're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e658	‘France has had a firm policy on the expulsion of imams spreading hate messages and leading Islamists seeking safe bases from which they can operate. In the opinion of these members, there should be no room for Islamists spreading ideas that go across Norwegian law and law to have their base in our society, and therefore, for security reasons as well as for preventive reasons, it should be easier to expel the apostles of such hatred.’; let's write in our notes. Do the Council of State agree that imams who may spread the ideology of hate and stand for radical Islam should be expelled from Norway, and, in the event of this, how do our authorities identify these in relation to the others? My second question is: to what extent has the Minister of Justice been involved in the situation of preparedness for terrorism, for example. France, the Netherlands and other countries that have a great deal of activity to stop terrorist acts by Islamic fundamentalists in their countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e668	I've been on the road ever since I became the Council of State, to see how we're going to fight both terror and organized crime. I have been on such trips to the United States, Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, and I have added Germany and France to my travel list. I do that because it's always something new to learn, it's always something new to bring with it, both on how to deal with it in different countries, and on how to tackle it. Just under a week ago, we had a meeting where we looked at the situation of being prepared for terror here in the country in the relationship between the police, the police security service, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the higher prosecution authority. Among other things, we had: a representative from the Netherlands, who stressed that, in order to avoid what happened in that country, a local dialogue must start so wide that those who are extreme do not win membership but are isolated from the moderate majority. Point 2: Intelligent police cooperation must be established. But, as he said, and he ended it: don't forget that if you lose the battle of the hearts of civil society, then you've lost. With regard to the second question, I have to be allowed to come back, because the representative Hagen deserves an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e675	The Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, supports the Government's efforts to get an overview of the potential impacts of climate change and promotes a case for the Storting on current measures to limit the impact of climate change in all societal sectors. How will the Council of State comply with this Decision, and how can Norway also strengthen international efforts to limit climate change before it occurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e680	The very serious issue raised by the representative, Bjørklund, can I follow up this day by working with other government colleagues affected by this, not least the Minister for the Environment, and perhaps also by remembering how great natural events have shaped our country. Let me hope not to call on anything, but mountaineering has e.g. The situation in our country and its consequences have been severe. It's an area where we've managed to develop a cooperative model, for example. in More and Romesdal. To go through what is the representative's business, I see it as very important, because I think we will unfortunately be able to see events around us that are in many ways related to climate. I regard the issues of the representative as very important in society, and I feel that the proposal is constructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e685	In its submission, the Council of State was concerned with the question of whether the partial privatisation of some of the activities related to, inter alia: Infrastructure can lead to increased vulnerability, and I choose to look at what the Council here says about the range that has been reduced, as a way of responding to the concerns that many of us have about the issue of sub-privatisation of activities in vital areas. The Council of State mentioned the issue of Great Norwegian on Svalbard as an example in an area where there should be no partial privatization, because there were other considerations that were more important. The question is whether the Council of State can also mention in other respects some examples of activities where it seems difficult to consider partial privatisation, precisely because of social security and emergency needs. Will e.g. does the Council agree with the signing that the generation capacity and infrastructure related to the power sector in this country are one of those areas where one should not be part-privatised, precisely for reasons of preparedness and social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e692	I clearly recognize that selection, and it's not just me who does it, the government does it too. The work on the vulnerable infrastructure sample is a completely logical follow-up to the work of the Willoch Committee, the Vulnerability Committee, which is the starting point for this as the second of two issues related to it. In this regard, we want to get on the table the assessments that are going to take place, and I expect very much of that. I do not want to comment on individual areas, except to note that, for example: the party of which I am a member in the capital has contributed to maintaining the Hafslund network under national control. I will not comment on it in any other way than that the citizen Dørum thinks it is a particularly interesting and correct conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e699	One shall not underestimate the need of society for rapid response when accidents occur. Rapid response is the basis for saving human lives and material values. That's why it's a little forward for me that the government party has such a big problem in taking over that central authorities should coordinate their work much more closely than they do today. Unfortunately, it is a fact that too many tasks are spread over many departments and underlying etatas. The leader of the Vårbarheitschollet, Kåre Willoch, says that after the next major terrorist action in Norway, Norway will have a private department in charge of security. So my question is: what is the reason why the government we now have will not establish such a department and in that way is inconsistent with the former Prime Minister and the leader of the Vulnerability Selection?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e706	As far as I can see, there is only one party in this Chamber who believes that we should have such a department, and that is the Progress Party. In the Vulnerability Communication, which was discussed here two years ago, we said that we would bet on using the structures we had, strengthening the coordinating role of the Ministry of Justice, creating a common intelligence services secretariat and ensuring that the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, as we have been given, became a strengthened Directorate, so in every way we have done what Rita Tveiten wants. Then there is an ongoing debate on how to deal with crises, including concrete events. These may be important peacetime events, such as major accidents and disasters, which we follow very closely. This government has, for example: Takes the initiative – fortunately now with broad support – to ensure that we have a digital emergency network, so that we have a good connection. We know that this is vital. So in the area by area, we're trying to relate to the way of society to secure this. We think of this from the bottom up, but at the same time we have to be good enough at the top to have enough control. We believe we have, but the Storting has asked us to look at it and do a further job, and of course it will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e715	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e718	After some years in the Defence Committee, I will try again to see the submitted St.meld. No 39 from the air, or in a wider perspective. The debate with the Defence Committee is likely to be a two-part debate. There are those who are followers of a defense who meet challenges as they were on April 9, 1940. The others are the ones who are taking in the consequences of what happened in New York on September 11, 2001. The terrorist attacks against our ally, the United States, would lead more people to take over the new threat of international terrorism as a fundamental challenge. So what does this have to do with this debate? Norway has never been able to defend itself for a long time. We have always built our defence and security policy on NATO. We know that modern societies are vulnerable societies. The following of 9/11, as the Americans say, shows this. So 911 days after 9/11, a train exploded in Madrid. The terror cells had been told to strike. In the newscast of TV 2 on 24 November, the Security Service of the police reported that 15 terrorist acts had been averted in Europe since 11 September 2001. And according to experts, it only takes six months to build up a new cell. It is therefore naive to believe that Norway is not a target of terrorism. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget has given clearer leadership to the Government than what the Government gave to the Stortinget in the announcement being debated today. New and enhanced cooperation between military and civil protection is necessary. So the big question is: does the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian Government take the right decisions in relation to the threats we face? After agreeing to deal with this big message, I really ask myself if that's true what it says. Do not follow up on the Innst message. S. No 9 for 2002-2003, which was the setting of St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002, on social security. I think we need to raise our eyes to see what other countries are doing. Europe is growing stronger and stronger together and is likely to become a more equivalent and balanced partner to the US in NATO in the long term. It is important to note the work being done on social security in both Europe and the United States. In the United States, Homeland Security has been given great authority, and in England, the MI-5 is strengthened with hundreds of posts. It is necessary that we also pay greater attention to intelligence and closer cross-border cooperation. Closer cooperation is necessary because it is clear that terrorists cooperate cross-borderly. Unfortunately, many in the world see their future so hopeless that they think it's as good to die as to live on. Abuse can have terrible results, especially when it is put in the system of camps that see the future for themselves. I started by saying that I was trying to look at social security from the air. I'm going to try to get back on the ground, and the question is whether a lander is on a private land, in a public or military area. I do not understand the zeal of the Government to outsource public-owned recreational areas, privatise public services or neglect the need for coordination of work on social security. I have said this before: we have money in the state treasury, so it can't be for the money that the government wants to privatize and outsource. It also has an impact on social security. Can private actors take the same responsibility for security as public institutions can? I don't see that this government is properly problematizing and discussing these important questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e741	These are just a few points at the end of the debate. Firstly, civil protection is no longer just an instrument to prevent disasters and be prepared to tackle local society crises. Secondly, civil protection and close cooperation between the Defence, Intelligence and Justice sectors are an important part of Norwegian security policy at large. The purpose of the security policy was to defend the state power and its fundamental interests in the past. But new threat images have instead put the focus on just social security, i.e. we must safeguard the security of the civilian population and ensure central social functions and important infrastructure against attacks and damage, even if the existence of the state is not threatened, but where the territorial integrity and political sovereignty of the state are nevertheless challenged without a military attack in the traditional sense. This is demanding. These are actions that have a form of political extortion as their main motive, not economic gain. This distinguishes terrorism from traditional serious crime. In the view of the Workers' Party, this strongly underlines the need for civil-military cooperation, where traditional cultural differences must not hinder constructive solutions. It includes clear responsibilities in crisis situations, rules on how to do so, who has the initiative, and clearer definitions of grey areas. When is this really a crisis? Yes, when is it war, and when is it peace? How's the command line? Recent major disasters have just failed in key responsibilities; there has been a lack of command and order, a lack of communication and poor cooperation between different actors. Examples of this are the flood in the Czech Republic and Germany in 2002 and the attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon in 2001 – two quite different disasters, one flood and the other terrorist attack. 11 September 2001 at 10 a.m. 09.17: American Airlines aircraft launch into the Pentagon. The plane first hits the ground. Therefore, the damage is limited and ‘only’ 184 are killed. This was after the World Trade Center was set on fire and a fourth hijacked passenger plane was headed for Washington, full of petrol and people. Hunter planes were aired after the attack on the Pentagon, but they were not told to look for passenger planes. They thought there were rockets fired from off-shore vessels. So there was a complete lack of coordination of information, and no one knew who had the command line. There was something fundamentally wrong that happened in all of these structural issues. We have also received information from practice here that it has failed in terms of coordination, that the agencies are actually arguing about the liability. Who really has responsibility in individual situations when it comes to it? Is it the Health Department, is it the Civil Defense Department, or is it the Justice Department? For example, 12 September 2001 Former Minister of Defence Bjørn Tore Godal’s mandate to – and he has stated this publicly – use fighter aircraft to shoot down civil aircraft if a hijacked or unidentified aircraft was headed for Norway. Would the Minister of Defense have had this authority if a crisis had happened suddenly and they had not had time to review either royal resolutions or do things differently? This updates a review of emergency legislation. The challenges of unforeseen events are many: Do we have enough hospital capacity for third degree burns here at home or by agreements with foreign authorities if a suicide bomb explodes in Oslo Centre on 17 May? Who has the overall responsibility if everyone in Oslo Spectrum gets sick? What public office would that be? Who is going to make the difficult decision whether to prioritize them within the Oslo Spectrum or to evacuate the civilian population outside? Here are the difficult ethical balances. Is this even clear? How is the cooperation between the intelligence service in Norway and the command line here? My appeal to the Government is: Start taking social security seriously! End with, as I said in a line, treating this topic like a bee-weed! Start with the Emergency Act and a central crisis management unit! This is a wide-ranging defence and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e770	St.meld. No 39 for 2003–2004 is a follow-up of St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002. You might well ask yourself in a lot of ways if it's really happened so much in the right direction during this time. There is no doubt that there is a great need for more interaction between the various actors, both at state level, state level and between local and private bodies. We still have those who sit on each other and are little kings in their territory, even though the neighbor does the same thing, and cooperation would give positive results. There is still some uncertainty about who has the primary responsibility and who should contribute to what in the individual crisis situations. Good examples of things not working in some places and working well elsewhere, saw us under the great flood in Eastern Europe in 1995. Some places were the command structure, who would do the different things for it to work, in order, while in other municipalities it was almost the beginning of chaos and no one knew who was the boss. There are such episodes that society has to learn from and adapt to. Realistic exercises are important here, where individuals learn to work together and draw on each other for the benefit of the community. Thus, natural disasters are an example, while, for example, natural disasters are a flood. forest fires and aggressors are reasonably easy to deal with in relation to the resources we possess, by people, material, plans and competences. Worse still, the new types of disasters such as acts of terrorism, attacks, espionage, international crime, etc. actions affecting society, which are even more unpredictable and affect us in a completely different way from natural disasters and accidents. For this reason, they must pool resources such as Defence, Police and Civil Protection. cooperate and train in an even better way and perhaps in a somewhat different direction than before, as these are relatively new threats to our society. When you know that e.g. The defense has not compiled an overview of the material and quantity that can be put at the disposal of the police, I think this is frightening. It is not enough to say that all material can be made available under certain framework conditions. It is, as the Progress Party sees it, also a weakening of the overall defence that Home Security is now reduced by 33,000 men and women, and that the number of Home Security districts has been greatly reduced. This is how a lot of local knowledge and belongings go away, and this could reduce the speedy help that we could otherwise have. I also have some problems seeing the Home Security effort stand and stable sandbags when this should be required, rather than doing so for their special instruction. Otherwise, continued cooperation with NATO is positive in the fight against international terrorism. Here I believe that Norway will be able to play a major role and play an important role in the future. As far as defence is concerned, this has special competence and material which will be very relevant in the fight against and prevention of terrorism. The defence has been active in the war against terrorism through its foreign missions and therefore has first-hand experience and competence in this field. Anti-terrorism has been a main theme of the Special Command of the Defence Agency and other specialists for many years. These are people who are in daily service and who are trained for such assignments, as opposed to the police, who do not have this as their specialty all the time. Perhaps it is more right then that the defense takes this task and gets resources in proportion to the volume of the mission, but with the police as a leading body. Otherwise, it is to note that because of fear of terror, shelter has become a theme again. In a city such as Hamar is about. 200 of these, but there's only room for half of the city's inhabitants. In addition, many of the country’s shelters have often been used for storage, etc. How vulnerable we are to accidents and injuries, the Stortinget got the mark last Monday, when it was reported that one was unlucky and dug over a cable with the result that Storting's computer equipment, etc. could not be used. This might be something to think about? How easy is it for those who really want to hit parts of or whole organizations?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e787	In St.meld. No 39 for 2003–2004, which is a follow-up of St. meld. No 17 for 2001-2002, it says: ‘In today’s situation and with the threat picture of the future, it is necessary to give further social security work an even clearer priority within a specific and structured framework.’ So the question is, is that what we're being presented today? Then I must say that I am significantly insecure. There are several elements that could be pointed out, but let me focus on the reorganisation that is taking place, with extensive privatisation of functions and services relating to security work. We have pointed it out from the Labour Party in this setting, and we have pointed it out in other settings, that social security is being reduced by involving private interests where the financial assumptions are more crucial than ensuring social security. This also leads us to build up a competence that is important. Is it a political theme alone? No, in the spring of 2004, the then Ministry of Labour and Administrative Affairs and the national safety authorities organised a seminar for departments that were at the heart of security work. In this seminar, where those who participated have a high level of safety expertise in the various disciplines, the fear of involving too much use of private consultants and too little use of internal forces was clearly expressed. There, a great deal of concern was expressed about the privatisation that took place and about the security being offered on the stock exchange. So these are the professionals in the state administration, within the various agencies, who give a signal to the political environment, who say that something is going on that's not good. That should be taken into account. What's happened after this? Apart from continuing the path of privatisation, there are also reorganisations addressing the issue of social security. And various reorganisations within the departmental structure have meant that those who were responsible for different areas of social security earlier this year have been relieved of this task. They have been given other assignments, while others have been given the tasks that the former had earlier. Thus, responsibility has been powdered, so that there are many who feel a greater degree of uncertainty about how to prepare for the terror that is an important part of the threat picture. Why are you worried? It can't just be because you want to express it. It also has a material basis. This is what we see in the use of information technology, which is an important part of social security work. The state administration is currently exposed to a significant number of attempts at penetration of the network. So big is that where there's reasonably good capacity in what's called the bottom width, there could be several thousand estimates against the network per. hour. Per. hour! An attack is recorded where viruses are attempted to be infected with servers around the country, and the larger, important, central servers are out of function, with the result that state agencies – of a certain size – are also out of function. This is part of the gravity of the situation. Technology is being democratized. The availability and ability to manipulate systems is increasing. Does the government take this seriously? If this message were to be the answer to the situation we are in, I have to say that the message gives me more concern than security.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e805	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e808	The best result we can get left with after discussing this message is that it will lead to organisational changes and a consciousness of everyone who is a citizen of our society. The result of what the Storing is doing today is no better than what we jointly manage to produce. It's only through a consciousness of individuals that we can deal with the challenges we're facing. An inherent property of man is, in fact, the ability to deal with difficult situations. One might, for example: mentioned people who survived concentration camps during World War II. Man has an amazing ability to survive and extract resources that we don't believe are there. That's why I think it's important that we have a consciousness of that. Then there's another element that's important. Through our active efforts out there, through the friends we have in the world society, we also get unfriends, who respond to our contributions with counter-terrorism. Therefore, it is important to be aware that out - of - doors actions could also lead to possible threats at home. You have to be aware of that: when you make effort abroad, it can lead to a setback against us. At the same time, I think it is important that the Communication focuses on the key societal elements, such as ensuring a democracy that works, including in a given threat situation, security of supply of different character, health, etc. – that is, the basic elements for society to function in the way we want it to work. Another challenge, which we saw in our examples, among other things. When Norway was mentioned twice on the Al Qaida list, is the communication between government and magnificence good enough in terms of the grips being made and the way to deal with such threats? The Minister of Justice has said that he is not interested in coming to the Stortinget to talk about individuals. It wasn't meant to be the time when someone from the Progress Party pointed this out, but it would have been very good to have had a forum where the Government could have put forward its thoughts on how to deal with this, in order to avoid creating uncertainty in society. There's none of us earned. Another important element is clear governance and management structures, so that we avoid an intermediary in a given case being left with a responsibility that will clearly be political. I think that's one of the most important things you have to deal with. Joint exercises between police and defence are necessary in order to achieve the best possible results in the future. Here we have both the Special Forces Command, FSK, and the Emergency Team. At the bottom of it, there's another challenge: having an ideological anchoring in the way of solving the problems. I think the defense's approach at times is a lot sharper than the police approach. I think you need to work out a common denominator in these kinds of things. It will both agencies be earned, and it will also serve our society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e823	Both in St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002, with the sub-title of the road to a less vulnerable society, and in St.meld. No 39 for 2003-2004, social security and civil-military cooperation are highlighted in few words what this is really about. The notifications recognise that social security work is a process in progress. At the same time, the messages confirm that this process is continuous. Social security affects not only the defence but only the police, but the whole community. Social security is not just a skill, but an attitude — yes, a willingness to care about each other daily. If the crisis occurs or the disaster occurs, it is too late to prepare. Each of us is responsible for its own security. The person responsible for the day-to-day situation is also best placed to deal with critical situations. For this very reason, day-to-day attitudes are crucial to the response to a crisis situation. I allow myself to say something more about the total defense. The concept must be seen in the light of social security and preparedness work. Total defence includes the exploitation of military and civil resources to maintain an organised and functioning society, to protect the population and the values of society. The military defense consists of the defense. The civil part of the total defence includes the whole of society with all its functions that must function in crisis and war. It is important to clarify that the total resources available to deal with a war can also be used for difficult, crisis-like events in peace. From this point on, there will be a need for much clearer cooperation between Defence and the rest of society in peacetime. We're under five million people in our country. We cannot allow ourselves to have equipment that is earmarked only for one particular purpose, when it is equally useful for several other purposes without excessive costs. The rescue service is a good example of this through the 330 squadron’s activities. The justice sector is responsible for the rescue services, but the defence is responsible for the implementation of most of the sites in the country. There will be several areas where resource use can be improved for the benefit of taxpayers. It is not a question of demilitating the defence, nor a question of making the justice sector more dependent on the defence. Rather, the future will require more interaction and better use of both competences and resources to secure our society against threats such as terror and gross crime. A useful exercise will be to make all parts of the population aware of what individuals can contribute to their daily tasks. Much more is required than to paint an enemy image based on an extreme sect or religion and through such action open to increased fear in society. Our fight against terrorism and other threats requires more interaction and less stigmatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e830	The representative Nybakk has asked several questions about whether we have powers. Yes, we have powers. And let me say – in my use of language then: May God look gracefully at the soul who has that authority when it occurs. Because there is no doubt that we have people who have that authority. – Yes, I say it in such seriousness. When it comes to the need to have good training between the police and the Special Command of the Defense Department, that's what happens. It's important assemblage, and it's very useful. The representative Hagen took up an important question for me, and let me answer in principle. I have to distinguish very clearly between opinions, even those that are so inedible that I don't know where to turn. And Norwegian legislation is cutting down on actions if they are committed with terror as a goal. Fortunately, there was a majority in this room – among others. with the support of the Progress Party, because I don't think the Workers' Party was in it – to criminalise preparatory actions for terrorism. We are also going through the so-called Police Methodology Committee at these times to make sure that we can just frame the preparatory actions where some conspirators are preparing actions to carry out acts of terrorism. I choose to perceive Mr. Hagen's question in the following way: I take him very seriously. When he says we're going to build a broad alliance that makes sure to stop those who are so extreme that in actions they're going to tear down our society, we're going to build a broad alliance against this. I fully agree with that. We will build a broad alliance where the overwhelming majority of Norwegian Muslims who have expressed this will never be in doubt if it is part of the Norwegian community. And we all see it that way. We all agree that extremists, especially if they are among others. expressed in radical Islamic faith, choosing to go into actions where they will get along, crosses the line that challenges any state of law, any democracy, any civilized society. Then our terror laws will apply. Then, too, the laws are being applied to be able to pursue preparatory actions. I can only state in this room that one of the highest priority tasks for the police security service is to be prepared for acts of terrorism, terrorist acts based on such phenomena as I have now described. This was not the way one might get the impression on a TV channel yesterday, that in 2003 Norway was uncertain whether we should take the threat seriously. No, we weren't unsure about that. We felt that the threat was not to be minimized, which the government did not, but it was not to be used to cheer up the mood. Because yesterday, Kari Vogt also said some very wise words in the TV 2 program. Terrorists have an incredibly successful media strategy. They play on fear, they draw attention. Yeah, we don't have to be naive, we have to follow where we're going. We're going to build our services so good that we can follow along in a good way, but at the same time we're never going to be chased in such a way that fear of fear becomes our real enemy. And let me conclude: I spend quite a lot of time getting people in normal Norwegian services to bring with me a moment of terror five minutes a week to think about the unfamiliar. I think it's pretty important whether a cop, fire department, health care or where it might be. If everyone does, maybe that day something serious happens, we'll stick together about something that's important; to avert and fight. But prevention is the most important thing. That's why my conclusion is: intelligence, intelligence, intelligence times three.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e839	It sounds reassuring. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[See page 629]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e854	At the EU’s Minister of Defence meeting on 22 November, it became clear that the Member States intend to establish 13 intervention teams each of which will hold about 1,500 staff. The establishment of these forces is intended to enable the EU to deploy rapid and flexible reaction forces to maintain or restore peace and security. This may apply in the context of joint disarmament, conflict prevention and post-conflict stabilisation operations and the fight against international terrorism in third countries. The prime ministers of Sweden and Finland requested Norway on 4 October this year to contribute to the establishment of a Nordic working group. The United Kingdom has offered British military headquarters support to such a Nordic group. At the EU Defence Minister’s meeting in Brussels on 22 November, Finland, Sweden and Norway presented a political declaration of intent on setting up a Nordic response force to be ready from 1 January 2008 for a six-month period. Sweden has undertaken to make a contribution of 1100 people to such a strength, while Finland will contribute about 200 people. From the Norwegian side, we have stated that we can in principle make a contribution limited up to approx. 150 people. There are several foreign policy considerations behind the Government’s decision to participate, in principle, in a Nordic effort force together with Sweden and Finland. Firstly, we Norwegian support the development of the EU's common security and defence policy, which takes place in full understanding with NATO. We do this both politically and through the forces we provide. In line with this, the Government of Stoltenberg, following consultations with the Stortinget, made a military contribution of 3 500 personnel to the overall EU strength targets in November 2000. The new effort forces are now at the heart of EU planning in this area. Norwegian participation in these forces will therefore be a continuation of our active support for EU defence and security policies and of our participation in EU military and civil operations. Norwegian participation will also strengthen our capacity for effective military interaction with European partners, including NATO. Secondly, Norwegian participation in a Nordic effort force will lead to the continuation of traditional Nordic cooperation on peace operations. It will help to strengthen Nordic military cooperation and make it more focused. Thirdly, a Norwegian-based participation will help to strengthen the United Nations’ capacity for crisis management. This is not least important in improving the capacity for crisis management in Africa. The EU attaches great importance to further developing and strengthening international law and the role of the UN in global crisis management. With a view to facilitating this cooperation in the best possible way, there are now regular meetings between representatives of the EU and the United Nations Secretariat. In recent times, doubts have been raised as to whether Norway will be free to decide whether or not to participate in a Nordic intervention force deployed in an EU operation on the basis of an independent international and political assessment. Let me make it clear that Norway will retain full national decision-making authority in relation to which operations Norwegian forces will participate. In line with the Nordic declaration of intent presented in Brussels on 22 November, the participation of each country will be based on the decision-making procedure. This means that Norway itself decides whether or not to participate in an operation. Consequently, it will not be a question of transferring neither formal nor real decision-making authority nor military efforts to an organisation of which we are not a member. Similarly, we will closely consult Sweden and Finland from day one when the issue of potential use of the intervention power arises. There will be parallel national discussions in all three countries to ensure national clarifications before any decision on the use of the force is taken by the EU Council. Such parallel clarifications will also take place in the other EU countries in advance of any decision taken by the Council of the European Union. In order to launch an operation, unanimity is required in the Council of the European Union. For the Government, it is important to state that even if Norway has notified a strength for potential use in EU operations, Norway will decide on its own initiative whether to participate in a particular operation or not, inter alia. for the purposes of each operation and the manner in which the assignment is planned. Participation in an EU operation may only take place following a decision on such participation on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with constitutional requirements and on the basis of the necessary political treatment in government and magnification. It would then be an indispensable condition for Norway that such an operation is firmly anchored in international law, either by a mandate from the UN Security Council or by other clear international legal anchoring. In order to make it clear that Norway’s freedom of action is being respected, the above conditions will be laid down in the contract work that Norway will conclude with Sweden and Finland. The works of agreement will thus clarify the basic framework conditions and the practical aspects of Norway's participation. The EU will also be in agreement with the Norwegian conditions. When this contract agency is in place, we will take a final position on the Norwegian contribution to the effort force. The government will submit a pre-negotiated agreement with Sweden and Finland to the Stortinget. The decision-making process it sets out, and the assumptions we have made from the Norwegian side for our participation in a Nordic effort will thus be fully within the framework of the Basic Law. Norway will provide officers both at the Operation Headquarters and at the Force Headquarters of the Operation Area to provide appropriate command and control-related functions. This system ensures control of the conformity of the use of Norwegian forces with national guidelines. This confirms that the strengths are under national control, and Norway has from international operations — among others. in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Balkans – a long experience of such practices. While Norway supports the EU's ambitions in the area of security and defence policy, the Government is committed to strengthening allied cooperation in NATO. It is therefore very positive that, both in NATO and in the EU, there is a political desire for the EU's security and defence policy to be developed in transparency and in cooperation with the NATO Alliance and the United States in order to strengthen the transatlantic relationship. Several key European NATO allies have invited Norway to participate in the EU response forces. NATO also stated in its communication from the Istanbul Summit earlier this year the objective of further developing the EU-NATO strategic partnership. On the American side, the importance of increasing Europe’s resources and contributing more strongly to common security has been stressed on repeated occasions. Not least, this is important in relation to the NATO Response Force. I am convinced that NATO and the EU will come up with good cooperation arrangements with regard to the relationship between NATO Response Force and the EU response forces. Let me explain to you a little bit more about the Nordic military cooperation. This is mainly within the framework of NORCAPS, which was established in 1997, and is a coordination forum for Nordic participation in international peace operations. The aim of cooperation is for the Nordic countries to be able to join forces with up to one Brigade in international operations under the auspices of either the UN, NATO or the EU. The establishment of a Nordic effort force, with the need for joint education, training and exercises this creates, will undoubtedly contribute to revitalising Nordic cooperation. Well, it is also important that we can build on the capacity for interaction already established with Sweden and Finland through their active involvement in NATO partnership arrangements and their contribution to the ongoing NATO-led crisis management operations in the Balkans and in Afghanistan. Let me also briefly explain the general framework agreement we aim to conclude with the EU, which sets out mechanisms and guidelines for participation in EU crisis management operations. The background to the conclusion of such a framework agreement is that we have so far concluded a new technical agreement with the EU for each operation we have participated in. This was among other things: the case of the military operation in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in 2003 and of the civil operation in the same place in 2004. In order to facilitate the process of participation of third countries in EU-led operations, the EU has initiated framework agreements with allied non-EU countries. The EU is now negotiating agreements with eight countries, including the NATO countries Canada, Iceland and Turkey. From the Norwegian side, we have concluded negotiations with the EU on such an agreement. It is essentially an administrative agreement that describes Norwegian policies and procedures for participation in EU crisis management operations. The agreement regulates the principle of participation, command and administrative and financial aspects of EU crisis management operations. The agreement will help to ensure the influence of Norway in carrying out the operations in which we participate. The agreement does not prejudge the participation of Norwegian personnel in future EU operations. Any Norwegian participation in operations will, as in the past, be decided nationally on a case-by-case basis. However, the framework agreement will simplify and streamline participation once the decision is reached. Let me also be quite clear that the agreement also does not address the issue of Norwegian participation in the EU effort force, which otherwise requires specific agreements, as mentioned earlier in the statement. The government will be able to sign the agreement between Norway and the EU in the near future. The Agreement will be applied for the first time in connection with the planned participation of a smaller number of Norwegian personnel in the EU Operation Althea in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will be launched in December of this year. The framework agreement will normally be submitted to the Stortinget in the annual text of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e906	The President will propose the presentation by the Minister of Defence of any Norwegian participation in the EU intervention forces and framework agreement on Norway’s participation in EU civil and military crisis management operations to be discussed at a later meeting – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e919	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e926	There's not much in the Foreign Minister's statement I'd like to disagree with. But I think he could have highlighted more strongly who is responsible in today's Iraq. It is according to international law the occupying powers of the United States and the United Kingdom that have it. Now, when they have to ask for assistance from a wide range of countries and NATO, it is because they are unable to accept their responsibilities under international law. That's why the war should never have started. I do not mention this to be retrospective, because I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is now about looking forward and making the best of the situation. We all depend on Iraq to stabilise and move towards democracy. The alternative is bad for all of us. However, I mention this to highlight how important it is for the United States to start listening to others, especially its allies. When many NATO countries hesitate to stand up in Iraq, it is probably because they doubt whether they are in such a situation that they are being heard. They won't be dragged into a war they were against, and into a situation they don't know if they can have influence over. It is the second time in three years that the United States has gone to war outside NATO. The first time was in Afghanistan. In retrospect, NATO was connected. Everyone set up and made this a test of whether NATO has a role to play in the future. In addition, NATO must succeed in the Balkans. Then we're asked to make an effort in Iraq, where the United States went beyond just NATO, but also the United Nations. When many people now say that we have to stick to the missions that have been agreed upon, and that have international legal anchoring, the United States should accept this and not suspect this as anti-NATO attitudes. I will warn against making almost half of NATO as NATO enemy. Besides, I want to draw something else out. Many believe that there is too much focus on what NATO can actually accomplish in Iraq. I agree. Iraq cannot be stabilized by the occupying powers or by NATO. Iraq can only be stabilized by coming to terms with the Muslim world and getting help from Muslim countries. Here, too, there is reason to doubt President Bush's rhetoric. The term ‘you are either for us or for us’ has contributed to the fact that many have had no choice. Language use has given more than anything else the terrorist groups a basis for recruitment and shared an entire world in two, rather than the world having been united against terrorism. The management of the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians builds on this. It is too many Muslims, especially in the Middle East, the symbol of the unfair policies of the West in the area. I fully support President Bush's wish to bring reforms and democracy to the Arab countries. But the way to this doesn't go through Baghdad, as he formulated it. It goes through Jerusalem. A Palestinian state must be created with the capital city of East Jerusalem, which creates justice for the Palestinians. It will be the first and best step to get on the feet of the Muslims and the Arabs. The Middle East and the world have been haunted for decades by terror originating in this conflict. In recent years, fundamentalist groups who have never been associated with or done anything for the Palestinians have also begun to use this conflict to recruit young people because they know that their rhetoric is resounding in the Muslim population. And the Arab regimes that have brought their countries into stagnation and social frustration, which are probably the main cause of this kind of terrorism, use this conflict to channel the minds of the people against Israel and the United States instead of against themselves. That is why this conflict between Israel and the Palestinians preserves relations in the Arab world. We must give the Muslim population an alternative to the fundamentalist forces. The fight against terrorism cannot be overcome by arms alone. It must be overcome by taking the air out of the balloon on it. We must win the hearts of Muslims. In this context, what happens to Iran is also becoming important. An armed conflict with Iran will only make the view of the Muslims on the West even worse. This could exacerbate the crisis in Iraq. Iran can create even greater problems in Iraq than what it already does. And worse still, Iran can create major problems in Afghanistan, where Iran has been very helpful to date. That is why everything must be done to resolve the conflict with Iran's nuclear programme in a peaceful way. Here we see the importance of the EU. The EU has managed to reach an agreement with Iran on Iran's suspension of its nuclear programme. If the country completely refrains from developing nuclear weapons and allows the UN to control it, Iran will have economic and trade benefits in the EU. We have to remember that Iran is perhaps one of the most modern countries in the region. Half of the students at the University of Tehran are women. Under the surface, there's a big uprising against the performance gypsy. But the priests can whip up a latent Persian nationalism based on what people think is an unfair policy. Why can't Iran get nuclear weapons when Israel has it, many say. Why is Iran particularly hanging out when Pakistan, which also has nuclear weapons, is the United States' close ally? Youth, women and many Islamic intellectuals have been USA-friendly and western-looking. But how have we managed to push them into the opposite path? The answer to that is some of the core of the problems in the Middle East. There is a consensus in the United Kingdom that it was right for the Government to vote in favour of the decision at the Istanbul Summit and to support the unanimous decision of the NATO Council a few weeks ago to put NATO's efforts into practice in Iraq. The disagreement is about how we're going to follow it up. The government has a majority in Stortinget, with the Progress Party and the Center Party, to send some training officers to Iraq. However, the Government will not participate in the protection force of these training forces. So there are many different ways that the different parts of the Storing will follow up the NATO decision. No one will follow up everything they're asked for. So the rest of us want to focus on the training that we can do on Yåtta. So it's a different pattern. But what everyone agrees on is that you shouldn't follow up everything you're asked for by NATO, and there's a disagreement that you can live with in the Storting. What I hope there can be a greater majority for is that Norway is pushing for a broader and more coherent strategy for the Middle East as part of the work to stabilise Iraq, for Israel's security by giving the Palestinians freedom, to resolve the conflict with Iran by means of trade and economy, instead of by arms and for support for EU policy here. It could help reassemble NATO. These will be positive signals to the Muslims. In everything that happens, there has been little attention to the situation of the Kurds. I think Norway is a small country and with traditions to support vulnerable groups should have their eyes fixed on them. Under Saddam Hussein, the Kurds were subjected to genocide and oppression. They were able to build Kurdistan under cover of the flight ban zone that the Americans and the British maintained during Saddam's last ten years. They have their own elected parliament and regional government. There are relatively orderly and calm conditions in Kurdistan. The Kurds will certainly not accept that they will again be driven from Baghdad and lose what they have achieved. That is why Iraq must become a federal state with extensive autonomy for the different groups. Moreover, we must not forget the position of women in Iraq. The measure of whether or not Iraq becomes democratic is not just that there are elections. It is the position of women and minorities that will determine how democratic Iraq will be. I'll end with just this. The Middle East is full of minorities. Israel is a minority: Palestinians, Turkmens, Christians, Assyrians – Iraq is made up of minorities. The Sunni Muslims are a minority in Iraq; the Shia Muslims are a minority in Saudi Arabia. The sooner we in the West focus our policies on this, the better. Viewing this region as a gray mass that is either against me or is for me, leads to nothing but an increasing conflict. There is not much disagreement in the Great Britain about what NATO should do in Iraq, as I see it. Some will follow up part of the decision in a special way, others will follow up in a slightly different way, but as I said, no one will follow up the entire request that comes from NATO to train Iraqi officers here in the country, participate in training in Iraq and participate in the protection force. That is as far as I understand, no one in Stortinget has gone in for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e966	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e969	I was a little surprised that the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security put so little emphasis on the urgent and topical issue: how to enable Iraq to deal with its own stabilisation problems as quickly as possible. I have a certain understanding that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee is trying – perhaps to misrepresent itself, but at least – to relativise very strongly the slightly eye-catching constellation we are facing with regard to the attitude to Norway's possible contribution to the training of security forces in Iraq. Thorbjørn Jagland operated with the category «we others» and it covers as far as I can understand, SV and the Workers' Party. The position of the Coastal Party may not be finally clarified. But there is a slightly unusual constellation in the case of Norwegian foreign and security policy, so I would like to hear a more detailed explanation why the Workers' Party has chosen to join SV this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e978	I don't think I'm fooling, I think I tried to clarify what are the actual conditions, because it's made a sense that someone in this room wants to follow up the entire request from NATO, including to participate in the protective force around these training centres. That's not the case. Neither will the Government follow up the entire request. A few training officers will be sent to Iraq. The Workers' Party and the SV believe, and that is an extension of the debate we had about whether we should continue our engagement with the multinational force, that we should follow up the NATO decision by conducting training at Yåttå in Norway, at NATO's own centre. That's the situation in Stortinget. That's also what's happening in NATO. That's why, as I said in the post, I'm going to warn you that all those who stand at that position are NATO hostile, because then almost half of NATO becomes NATO hostile.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e985	I think it was interesting that the committee leader paid so much attention to Iran and the situation there. He warned against an armed conflict with Iran, and I agree with that. The solution was trade and economics. It must be said that Norway has, in this context, been in the forefront, and we have had an active dialogue with Iran. Statoil is, as you know, engaged. At the same time, the human rights situation, and so far as the nuclear situation is concerned, has become ever worse and more worrying. Does not the representative Jagland see that the line – at least in terms of improving the conditions for women and children – has become worse in Iran?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e992	It's a very important question, because I don't think that general trade, as Norway has with Iran, does not help to stop nuclear weapons programmes or to improve the position of women and children in Iran. This will only happen if you attach conditions to it, as the EU is now doing. They say we can open up to trade and economics if you interrupt the development of nuclear weapons. Then it can work. But I also want to add that without a threat in the back, which is also there from the Americans, this would of course not work. But I would warn against just using it, because then you paint yourself into the same situation that we got with Iraq. Now you have to try politics and diplomacy. The EU is now doing this by combining these two things. What is the Norwegian financial involvement in Iran does not work with regard to these things; it is a purely commercial entity that can be discussed. But it has nothing to do with changing the situation in Iran, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1001	The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee made an interesting and nuanced statement on the situation in Iraq and the Middle East. On the SV side, we fully share the committee leader's concern about the conflict between Israel and Palestine, and we fully agree that if you really wanted to do something to combat terrorism, you would start by finding a fair peace for the Palestinians. We also agree that Norway should not contribute to the training of soldiers in Iraq. I will come back to the position of SV in my own post. But I want to challenge the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee in relation to what is the role of the United States in Iraq per. today. From more and more quarters, there is growing concern that the presence of the United States in Iraq is part of the problem in the future because they are triggering more resistance than they are solving. They are still seen as an occupying power. Also from conservative teams in the United States, it is now beginning to see that the United States is part of the problem and not part of the solution. What is the opinion of the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1008	I think, unfortunately, that's a long way to go. That is why I also stressed that Iraq cannot be stabilized by the occupying forces alone. Help needs to be given from others, especially from countries in the region. That's why you have to improve your relationship with the Muslims and get them involved in this fight against terrorism, and don't whip up your mood any more, as you often do. In addition, one must have a regional policy where one looks at all the other conflicts that play together here now. I highlighted Iran. If the conflict with Iran is not resolved, we can have a worse international crisis than the one we now have. That does not mean letting Iran play freely, but one has to try politics and diplomacy. I believe that Europe and the United States must come together and harmonise their policies in relation to the whole region. It's just that it can work. That is why it is important now that the Americans start listening to the Europeans and taking them on board. Then it could be an alliance that could work in that region.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1015	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1019	This debate is not primarily about Norwegian domestic policy, but about the situation in one of the most combustible areas in the world, namely the Middle East. There may be reason to recall this because most foreign policy debates in Norway tend to become suspiciously quick to engage in domestic policy debates. It is sometimes presented as if the problem complex in Iraq began with the last Iraq war. It didn't. The formation of the state of Iraq is an outpouring of European power politics in the period around and after the First World War. It's a state formation that at no time in history has it been possible to maintain with a political government based on the will of the people, that is, a government that goes from below and up. When it's been possible to keep this state formation together, it's because you've had dictatorships of varying degrees of brutality. The last dictatorship, Saddam Hussein's, was so dissident at the upper end of the scale in terms of brutality. It may be good to remember, since sometimes in ideological terms, the situation you have in Iraq today, to the point where it has arisen, as I said, because of the last war. During Saddam Hussein it was so that any person who was being bugged and let fall a remark that could be perceived as critical of the dictator got his tongue cut out. What is the situation we have to relate to today? The situation is that for the civilian population in Iraq there is a whole range of elementary needs that are not met. This concerns the need for proper nutrition, the need for health care, in short, all the basic needs that make everyday life viable for people in a society. The overall consideration of Norway's way of dealing with this must be: how can we bring about a situation in Iraq as soon as possible that not only makes it viable from day to day for the civilian population, but which enables us to take courage and hope for a social situation based on freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of organisation, freedom of belief – a social situation in which society is able to hide itself economically? The paradox is that Iraq is of the few countries in this region that have natural resources that would under normal conditions ensure that the country could recover itself very well in economic terms, even being able to obtain its inhabitants a wealth that is significantly above what is average in this part of the world. The general question must be: how can we contribute to achieving a positive development in Iraq as quickly as possible? And let me add that I think it is more fruitful, in the short term at least, to think the opposite way of the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee did when he stressed that the situation in all the other countries in the region must be in place before a positive development can be achieved in Iraq. In fact, I think it's more fruitful to think the opposite: if we manage to bring about a positive development in Iraq, it could have an infectious effect on the rest of the region that in turn could create a better development across the Middle East. In any case, it is not useful to make a number of assumptions about what needs to be in place in the Palestine conflict, in Iran, or in other Arab countries, if necessary, before seeing positive developments in Iraq. Iraq simply cannot wait for it. The civilian population in Iraq cannot wait for that. That is why there are concrete questions which the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed in his statement to the Grand Duchy: how can the Iraqi authorities be able to take responsibility for a stable situation in their own country? It becomes a relatively uninteresting theoretical discussion, according to my concepts, whether the United States is part of the problem or part of something else. The actual situation is that if someone were to imagine that the American troops were to be pulled out of Iraq overnight, there would be a vacuum that would certainly be filled, because it is not just in the world of physics that any void is filled. I am quite convinced that we would see that it was filled with something that is significantly worse, and that ‘the last’ would be ‘worse than the first’, to quote a certain book. The United States is actually in a situation of coercion. Of course, you could say it's appropriate, because they've caused it themselves. But it is also not a very constructive contribution, at least not in relation to the civilian population in Iraq. We are in a situation where, through several unanimous resolutions, the UN Security Council has outlined one line further on the Iraq issue. You could be skeptical about that line. You can problem it, and there's one party in particular that specializes in being skeptical and problematizing most of it, SV. But then you also owe it to come up with a credible alternative. And you should ideally also be able to convince the powers of the Security Council who are responsible for international law for this conflict too, that you have a better alternative than the alternative that requires the present transitional government to be able to offer the Iraqi people free elections at the end of January next year, in practice in two months. It is from this perspective that the disagreement on Norway’s contribution to NATO is at home, and it is only in this perspective that a reasonable debate on this issue can be held. NATO has unanimously decided that the organisation shall contribute to the achievement of the objective of the Security Council, acting unanimously. The decision of the NATO Council was also unanimous for security reasons. It is true, as Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland pointed out, that the participants in that Council meeting interpret the unanimity somewhat differently. At my discretion, the interpretation that the Government has made of Norway’s commitment to its NATO membership is the closest to what has been Norway’s tradition in this area. For Norway, its NATO membership has always not been considered a footnote membership, where it is about choosing the minimum solutions and contributing as much as possible to the joint effort of the alliance. It is at this point that I have trouble understanding that the Workers' Party is joining one of its two future government comrades, SV, while the Centre Party is falling on the side where the party has traditionally been involved in foreign and security policy issues. The last thing I really appreciate. The first thing I think is an extension of what has also been a weakness in the Labour Party in the past, namely that one has always been very careful to follow up Norway's loyalty within the NATO alliance when one has been in government position, but unfortunately has tended not to do the same when one has been in opposition. I hope that the radar pair SV and the Workers' Party are a passing event, which will not set permanent tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1038	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1041	This was an article with a slightly strange start, and with a huge finish. First of all, it contained a fairly obvious explanation that a dictator is a dictator. But it wasn't because Saddam Hussein was a dictator, that the United States went into Iraq, at least it shouldn't have been. It should be quite clear that this was not the cause of the attack. The second is that it has been said that the Iraq question cannot be resolved alone. And it must be quite obvious that one does not stabilize the situation in Iraq without looking at what is happening around. That's exactly what made Tony Blair draw a line to the United States after the presidential election to see the Palestinian question on the agenda, because one can't take Iraq alone. It must be that Inge Wohnung also sees the relationship around Iraq as an essential part of the solution, and that we cannot say that there has been an abyss in Norwegian politics due to ten to twenty men going down and running training, while neither does the Government want to participate in the protection of these people. It's an interpretation of the decision, including what the government has done. There have been many decisions in the Security Council that the Right and Government have interpreted in their own way, and as one has interpreted there they are not worth following up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1050	I have not used words as ‘background in Norwegian policy’. Then the representative of Blankenburg must have heard something that was not said at all. On the other hand, I pointed out that there is an unusual constellation in Norwegian policy, and I assume that we can agree on that. It is even a very unusual constellation in Norwegian policy that the Workers’ Party joins with SV on key foreign and security policy issues, and in particular on the management of Norwegian NATO membership. This is a very unusual situation. Let me also stress that I agree, of course, that all the other issues in the region are significant and should be addressed. What I argued about was that this is not the way to shift attention away from what we need to take a stand on here and now: Norway's contribution to the establishment of a stabilisation force to enable Iraq to manage its own society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1059	The representative of Wage is quite right that it was around the 1920s – in 1917 – that the problems that we are discussing today arose. When the United Kingdom took Baghdad in 1917 and France shared Syria and Lebanon, etc., the United States actually had a progressive role in that region, while we are now clearing up and trying to find the way out of the consequences of the United States’ new policy, namely a pre-purchase doctrine, which is the last United States to contribute. At the same time, we see that it's going to be new in the United States as well. More and more security experts now say that to a greater extent, the accupant, namely the United States, has become such a major part of the problem that one should begin to withdraw as quickly as possible slowly, but safely, in order to bring in other, democratic, evolving forces. What is the representative for Wage's view of it, and has it gone up for the representative for Wage that more people in the United States claim this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1066	I didn't mean by my small remark to invite you to a debate on World War I. We can take it from the point of view of eternity, not here and now. Let me stress that the consequence of the question asked by the representative Bjørn Jacobsen should be that he completely ends up on what was the point of the Foreign Minister's statement, namely that Norway should contribute to creating a situation where the American forces can be drawn out as soon as possible. But the precondition for this to happen is that you have an Iraqi government capable of dealing with the security situation in the country on your own. That is the whole point that the Government wants Norway to manage its NATO membership in such a way that we also contribute to the training of Iraqi security forces on Iraqi soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1073	The centre party receives credit from Vice President Wage today, and it's not everyday food. But the Senter Party has also had to endure bone-hard criticism from the Right and Inge Wages in relation to our consistent resistance to the war in Iraq. The representative of Wage ‘caset’ in a victory in relation to the war opponents in May 2003, when he said the following: ‘The opponents of the war drew a non-rooted horror image in reality’. Now it goes from bad to worse in Iraq, as the Foreign Minister confirmed in his statement. My question to the representative for wages and salaries is simply: does he regret his opinion of May 2003?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1088	The answer is no. This opinion referred to the situation that existed at the time, namely the war in the sense of the campaign being conducted. If that could hardly be more than one meaning. It did not have the character that the war opponents prophesied in advance. Now we all know that the situation in Iraq is different, because now it is the peace that is the problem, and not the war, or rather, that is the peace situation after Saddam Hussein's regime had to extend arms. Then the situation is different. It is also in this situation that I praised the Central Party for the realism of seeing the need for Norway to manage its NATO membership actively and constructively, so that Norway actively contributes to bringing about a situation in Iraq where its own legally elected government can deal with the security situation in the country within a reasonable period of time after January next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1095	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1098	There were many good reasons to remove Saddam Hussein from power and end his tyranny: his obvious contempt for his own inhabitants, which led to great sufferings for very many and impunity for almost everyone, that he was a threat to the whole region, with several warriors on the conscience, his support and funding of terrorists, including suicide bombers in Israel, the fact that he gave the scam in a number of Security Council resolutions and failed to report in a credible way about what he had of biological and chemical weapons, and that he kept known terrorists in hiding in Iraq. Yes, we thought there was sufficient basis in every way to defend a military action against Iraq. Yes, we recognize that no weapons of mass destruction have been found on any scale in Iraq. But as explained, it was not the only point where Saddam Hussein posed a threat. His cooperation with the weapons inspectors – or we shall say lack of cooperation – was of such a nature that there was good reason to assume that he had weapons that he should not have at the request of the United Nations. We therefore do not regret that the regime of Saddam Hussein fell and that there was a hope of democracy. After the war in Iraq started, it is not difficult to join those who believe that the Americans have done wrong. It will take too long to go through this thoroughly, but what may have seemed to be the most negative, has been incidents such as the arrest in Abu Ghraib prison, which, of course, provoked the Iraqi population, the entire Muslim population and so far all of us very strongly. Fortunately, the Americans have shown both the will and the ability to bring the guilty to justice. Many minor abuses and examples of brutality are attributed to what the Americans themselves call lack of cultural intelligence, where it is particularly felt that a predominantly Muslim population is being handled in various offensive ways. No matter how far the Americans are going to go, such a lack of cultural intelligence, there is no doubt that Iraqi police and Iraqi military forces have a completely different opportunity to dampen conflicts and clean up the ground in Iraq than the Americans have. But some outrages by the American side must not prevent us from combating the terror perpetrated by extreme forces in Iraq, forces that do not go down the road to cruel killings on people who have done nothing but stand up and help the Iraqi civilian population. We must not forget who are the real enemies of the Iraqi people. I would also like to add that one of the major mistakes made by the Americans in the post-Saddam case was that there was insufficient control of the borders, especially Syria and Iran, and thus the road was more or less open to forces from these countries that would take advantage of the opportunity to destroy any attempt to introduce democracy into Iraq. Because it has not been the case that all neighbouring countries of Iraq have been silent and have seen developments. On the contrary, several have played an active role in supporting and initiating actions against the coalition forces, which led Iraq's Home Secretary to declare Iran the greatest enemy of peace in Iraq. An example of this was after the actions in Najaf were completed – where most of the weapons used by the insurgents came from Iran. The elections on 30 January next year are important for future developments in Iraq. It is our belief that the elections should be conducted according to the plan. But we're afraid of the ideal situation for a choice is far away. We think the election itself will have a positive effect. We also experience a great commitment on the Iraqi side to register parties and prepare for a democratic process that a choice is. Those who primarily want a postponement are some groups of Sunni Muslims. They are naturally anxious enough to get into a inferior position after the election, after being the population that has held power for many years. There are many reasons not to give in to the requirement of postponement, but one of the most important is that this will show the Shia Muslims that once again it is not worth taking the Americans seriously, and that the only thing that leads is as much interference as possible and terrorist action. France, of all countries, has gone very far in believing that a postponement of the elections is correct. What, though, has France done to provide a better basis for the implementation of a choice? What has France done to prevent the instability in Iraq that they themselves have not long thought to be very dangerous? What has been France's constructive contribution to a better everyday life for most Iraqis? The Progress Party supports the Government's line, where, as part of NATO, we are now seeking first and foremost to build up Iraqi police and military forces, and fortunately we feel that Norway will not escape the reality of Iraq. Unfortunately, not all NATO members are as conscious of this as Norway. Following the presentation by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, a management article in Dagbladet called for an assessment based on Norwegian assumptions and Norwegian assessments of what was right to do. We can agree with Dagbladet that it is right to base a Norwegian perspective. Our conclusion is that it is to the utmost extent in the Norwegian interest to contribute to stability in Iraq. Without this stability, Iraq becomes a place where all the world's terrorists can unfold at the expense of civilian Iraqis. We know that Saddam had previously held well-known international terrorists in hiding, and without a broad international will to act, this will only continue. We also hope that Norway, through various international organisations, can make a positive contribution to the elections in Iraq. We know that the Iraqi Interim Government has asked for election observers and other assistance from both the UN, the OSCE and a number of other international organisations – as far as I understand – a fairly open invitation. We hope that Norway too can contribute to meeting such a wish. Democratic states need to get on the road and actively support such a democratisation process, and Norway has good and broad experience of such support and assistance during other elections in emerging democracies, not least in Eastern and Central Europe. It is absolutely right that a solution in Iraq cannot be seen in isolation from other conflicts. I have pointed out the negative influence of some neighbouring countries, such as the United Kingdom. Syria and Iran are in the situation in Iraq. But it is also clear that the handling of both Afghanistan and Israel–Palestine conflicts affects. It is also equally clear that the Americans now have a job to do in relation to contributing to results in these areas. That being said, there is also enough force here to ensure that peace and democracy do not succeed in any way. Some of those who are most critical of American policy are also those who are least constructive in promoting solutions that actually contribute to peace and democracy. I would like to join the committee leader when he points to the challenge of the minorities in the Arab world, in this case especially the Kurds. That's an important point. The position of women is also very important and crucial for democratic development. In a regional perspective, it is gratifying to note the small steps that seem to come from a large country like Saudi Arabia, where things may eventually go in a more positive direction also for women's participation in political life. Unfortunately, Iran, which has been mentioned earlier in the debate, is heading in the opposite direction. It is a paradox that while the population suffers more and more from the regime in Iran, they can push the outside world for concessions in other fields under the threat of establishing a nuclear programme. The handling of Iran issues can be of great importance to our future security. I do not fundamentally disagree with the Committee's chairman's analysis on this point, but I think it is absolutely essential that we deal with the situation as constructively as he described, linking concessions in the field of trade, economic relations and diplomatic relations with improvements also in the area of human rights. Because if we are to have credibility with the Iranian people as well, we need to know that we care about the people of Iran not only when you get a situation that is now, with a threat to a nuclear program. Iran's lack of democracy and repression has been known to us for well over 20 years, and it is therefore high time that we reacted, but then in a way that brings results.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1127	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1130	There is a lot in Høglund's articles that I agree with. There were a lot of good things there. But as far as I understand it, he also believes, like No Reward, that the only right way to follow up the NATO decision is the one that the Government and the majority are in favour of. It's just when you're NATO trustworthy. Can Høglund then help me explain why you haven't gone in to participate in the protective force, which was much larger than the training officers you're going to have? Why doesn't the Progress Party go in order that we also send people to that force, if that's the way to follow up the NATO decision? I don't quite understand how you've managed to reconstruct these contradictions around the different ways of looking at this. But maybe it's possible to get help from the Progress Party for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1139	Now I'm not going to give a recipe for what is required to be a loyal NATO ally. We have previously thought that we should be able to contribute more strongly in Iraq, and we regret that we had to send home the notified force we had there this summer. At the same time, the situation is so that we are under pressure, and our commitment, among other things. in Afghanistan says we can't spread in too many fields. So that's the real political part of it. We have not previously said in this debate that the Workers' Party is outside its NATO obligations, nor will I try to contribute to it now. We only acknowledge that we will extend as far as possible, and believe that we are fulfilling our part, so the Workers' Party itself will interpret how they will solve their own situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1146	It could have been tempting to have a debate on cultural intelligence with Høglund. I guess we can initially agree that regardless of the cultural background, everyone should realize that the abuse that took place in Abu Ghraib, for example, was offensive. But enough about it. We have recently seen a remarkable development in relation to the view of the United States of America's ability to establish stability and peace in Iraq. We also see an increasing number of American officials and prominent personalities in the American social debate stand up and say that the American military presence now does not contribute to peace and reconstruction, but that it is feared that instead it contributes to the intensification of the acts of war. The party of progress, on the other hand, appears to be solid in faith. In the evening post yesterday, former NATO general William Nash was quoted as saying that he believes the United States must reduce the number of soldiers in Iraq. Does Høglund agree with this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1153	I agree with the replicator that only American military presence will never bring peace to Iraq. Without a credible and uprising Iraqi defense, police, etc., that will never happen. The best analysis I've seen in this regard is that the Iraqis will not be near the end of next year until they can take more responsibility. Until that happens, I see no other solution than that the Americans, and preferably others, have to take responsibility for the situation on the ground. But I fully agree that there is no long-term solution, and that it will only be the day when Iraq's own will be able to deal with the situation, that we will be able to see something near an improved situation on the ground. And intelligence or not intelligence: the Americans will in any case always be perceived as occupying, and thus will not have the necessary legitimacy in relation to the civilian population.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1158	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1161	I think this last round was an interesting analysis of Morten Höglund from the Progress Party, because it is very clear speech when the representatives of the Progress Party say that the United States is not a long-term solution in Iraq, and that the United States is part of the problem. It's clearer speech than we hear from the government parties. But I am absolutely sure he is right, and all the experience so far in Iraq warrants the same thing. So the question is, are forces trained by the United States and perceived to be close to the United States, i.e. Iraqi forces, legitimacy at the end of next year, or in the future? Let me get back to that a little bit, because we're in the middle of what's the problem here. The situation in Iraq is very serious. Some key words about the past must be able to escape, because it has something to do with the future. This is a war that the United States has waged against international law. Norway has said that one does not have sufficient basis in international law, but Kofi Annan’s word is that it is contrary to international law. That it was based on lies and manipulation in relation to intelligence and information about weapons of mass destruction that did not exist is a fact, and it is also a fact that the fight against terror has been put back many steps. The U.S. has had a strategy to win the war, basically, but they haven't had a strategy for how to win the peace. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who says in his statement that the United States has made many mistakes in how they have behaved when they dissolved the police and the military, in their revealing lack of respect for the Iraqi population and through imprisonment and their own behaviour, for example. the last execution – which has been broadcast around the world by NBC – in Fallujah, where a soldier executes a prisoner. This is a procedure that reminds us very little of civilization. It is a violation of all human rights that exist, and it is an offensive and humiliating process in relation to Iraqis who Muslims around the world identify with in these contexts, and it creates ground for new terror. So what can happen in the future? The Security Council Resolution 1546 is the one to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs refers when he supports the so-called UN track. That resolution suggests that the occupation is formally reviewed under international law and that the Security Council's decisions give formal legitimacy to Iraq in the future. But there is no doubt that this UN track is largely dictated by the United States, that the UN's own mission to the area recommended a different track and procedure, and that it was undermined by exiliacs and the United States, who had other plans. There are thus many factors that mean that Norway must independently assess what now appears to be the United Nations track, and must independently assess whether it actually provides the basis for a legitimate civil regime in Iraq. Indeed, among large groups of Iraq's own people, the Security Council resolution does not have legitimacy. They still see the United States as an octopus. More and more people in the international community are also beginning to question whether the central role of the United States in Iraq is part of the solution, or whether it is the main problem in finding a future and legitimate solution. It is paradoxical that the discussion about this takes place in much greater transparency and with much more reflection than it does from the Norwegian Government and from many parties on the Stortinget. When even strong supporters of the US occupation of Iraq in the US debate address the issue of American withdrawal, it is strange that it does not shape the Norwegian government's attitude much stronger. In the United States, many people now see that the United States, with its very presence, only triggers resistance, the more they escalate the fight against the rebels, the more resistance increases. The massive presence of the United States has given more nourishment to the rebels, not to break them, says Michael Vickers – a conservative Pentagon adviser and a former CIA official. Now you're in a situation near a civil war. The U.S. may win a battle over Fallujah and other cities, but at the same time, resistance is increasing. Central Sunni Muslims say they want to boycott the election. The hatred against the West is increasing. This is not really a simple question. No country can occupy another in violation of international law and then bomb and leave – bomb and go – to leave the security problems that arise to the occupied country. They actually have a responsibility under international law to clean up after themselves. But it's very difficult to see that that cleanup can happen primarily in the US military presence, without a clear political race that reduces and eliminates the role of the United States. In the situation where conservative forces in the United States are beginning to discuss US withdrawal from Iraq, the Norwegian Government believes it is important that Norway now participates in training Iraqi soldiers in the NATO regime in Iraq, closely linked to the United States. It's quite eye-catching. Six central NATO countries therefore refuse to participate – not only in Iraq, but also in NATO command centres. They don't want to get close to the United States. In addition, there is no certainty that building up Iraqi forces is closely linked to what many Iraqis consider to be a continuing occupying power, and with the modest efforts of other NATO countries, it will lead to Iraqi forces that actually have legitimacy in the future. In many of the battles that are now taking place, this is the beginning of forces that are fighting side by side with the United States. It is difficult for us to understand that this is a way to go in relation to building a legitimate military system in Iraq. In the SV we do not believe in this strategy. We believe that Norway should not participate in NATO's training of Iraqi military personnel, either in Iraq or elsewhere. We should focus on what must be a sustainable political solution and on civil action. In any case, 10 to 20 military personnel participating in NATO training in Iraq will be seen primarily as political support to the United States, and it is not even in Norway's interests to be so closely glued up to the United States in Iraq. Let me use the last few minutes to talk about what is the future political and economic and social development in Iraq, because it comes very quickly in the shadow of the military effort – the war or the occupation – but it is very, very close together. A recent report from something called the International Crisis Group has been presented. It was presented on 2 September this year, and it calls for the link between American military presence in Iraq and what is happening on the economic and social front. They point to a lot of problems. They point to the fundamental problem that the United States has gone to this work with a considerable degree of arrogance to the Iraqis themselves. They've lacked knowledge of Iraqi conditions, they've shown no signs of humility, of course, they've increased the problems financially, and next time, there's some of the same attitude that increases the resistance of Iraqis most. The failure to meet social and economic expectations among Iraqis has led to significant unemployment, particularly among the urban sub-class, and it has in turn led to organisations such as the United States and Japan. Mustafa al Sadr recruits, has increased just among that group. It shows how closely economic and social work is linked. There may be some signs of growth in the Iraqi economy, but there are many signs of concern. Let me mention some of them. There have been very few jobs in public construction projects. A great deal of industrial production has disappeared, and jobs have disappeared with them. Industrial sites are almost like garbage fillings. A little reconstruction of the damaged infrastructure has been successful, and so have roads and bridges. It is only recently that electricity supplies are back at the same level as before the war. This list I could still and still and still. It's actually just ten pst. Of the economic efforts of the United States in Iraq, civil society has been built up, and it is also an important part of the issue in Iraq. Now we know that 400,000 children – twice as many as before the U.S. illegal occupation of Iraq – have serious health problems. Such a lack of effort in relation to the reconstruction of civil society will only mean increasing problems in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1194	I was so slightly reassured by Kristin Halvorsen's posts, because there was SV on his traditional, i.e. alone. SV has a different view of Norway's relationship with the UN than any other party in this Chamber in this case. You can easily see that. SV clearly differ from the Workers' Party also in the case of Norway's NATO obligation. It is not surprising, because SV still has on their work programme for the current period that they are to make proposals for Norwegian exit from NATO, and that is still time. But what Kristin Halvorsen's post was chemically free of was an answer to my question about what is SV's own option. We were told everything that is not dangerous in Iraq. The only thing we didn't get any hint of is which way is dangerous. For example, we didn't get a single indication that SV is in favour of holding elections in Iraq in January next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1201	I do not stop to wonder how simple the representative Inge Wohnning is trying to do it separately. If the situation is such as more and more conservative Americans – members of the Republican Party, the Right Sister Party in the United States, Bush’s own party – say that the US presence in Iraq is part of the problem and not part of the solution, it is strange that not Inge Wohnung also begins to think at least that there might be a hint of truth in it. This is the problem that we from SV think is important to discuss. Because without a legitimate political solution in Iraq, what can be achieved by military means is limited. So this is not something that SV is just talking about in Norwegian politics. A lot of people share that analysis. At some point, the Right must also get your eyes up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1206	As I said earlier, I agree with the representative of Halvorsen that US military forces cannot win the final peace on the ground. The Iraqis must do that themselves. But it assumes that the Iraqis are equipped to be trained for it. It's okay to think that NATO is not going to do that problem. But who's going to do that? Where in Iraq are they going to come from, those who, after all, are going to give the people a certain degree of security and security? We're talking about the police. We're talking about military. There's not just a fight between different directions. We're talking about that it's become a real terrorist threat. Then we can probably disagree on how that threat of terror has arisen. But the situation is serious now, and it has to be handled. We can agree that there are different ways of attacking this, with Western forces in Iraq. But, after all, does it not make sense to contribute to training?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1212	First, I want to commend the representative of Höglund in the debate, because I think he appears far more nuanced than what the Right's own spokesperson actually does, and asks many questions about what actually works, in relation to building peace and a civilly legitimate government in Iraq in the future. There's a reason to have that. That's one of the problems. It is quite obvious that both Iraqi police and Iraqi military forces are needed who have legitimacy in the population. A main problem is: will they get it when everyone sees them so far fighting side by side with American soldiers, who are perceived as an occupying power? And will they get it under training from NATO, where the United States also participates strongly with other NATO countries? There's a reason to put a big question mark on it. That is why I believe that the discussion about bringing in security forces from different Muslim countries is a discussion that should go further. Can you imagine that there are others who can teach Iraqi soldiers? I think that's important to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1219	The representative Halvorsen owes some representatives to make it simple. But isn't it also easy when you say that the UN decision that we stick to here, we can't take care of it, because it's forced by the United States? All the decisions of the UN Security Council, and all the decisions of the international forums, follow a process where there is a strong pressure. But should a subjectively only be able to answer as the representative Halvorsen does here? So concretely: I share the analysis that both the representative of Høglund and the representative of Halvorsen have that it is not a lasting solution that the United States is staying in Iraq in the long term. Does the representative Halvorsen think that one should immediately withdraw?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1226	I will protest to the representative Lilletun. We don't make it easy for us. Our view of the Security Council Resolution 1546 is that there is a resolution in the Security Council which, as such, has legitimacy in the international community. But it does not have legitimacy in Iraq. It must be a very great challenge for the representative of Lilletun and the Christian People's Party, because that is where it will work. If it's still the case that large sections of the Iraqi population view the United States as an occupant who has no legitimacy, it's part of the problem. That's in the situation we're now in. So the question of whether the United States is going to withdraw immediately. Our view is that the slowdown and withdrawal of the United States forces should be started at the same time as a political solution is put in place that has greater legitimacy in Iraq than today's solution shows. But this is a very difficult situation, because the United States has gone to a war that has made Iraq worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1233	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1236	I would first like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very thorough and nuanced statement on Iraq and the situation in the Middle East. I would also like to thank the leader of the Committee on an Exciting First Post today, which, I believe, contained many good analyses of the situation both in Iraq and in the Middle East. At a couple of points, I'll still distance myself somewhat in relation to that. First of all, the leader of the committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, said that the Foreign Minister had not specifically stopped at the cause of the problem and where the responsibility was originally. That's what I think I'm wrong. The Minister of Foreign Affairs concluded that despite Iraq's failure to comply with Resolution 1441, one had not tried this sufficiently, and one believed that the weapons inspectors had to be given the opportunity to continue working. Secondly, the Government considered that there was not a sufficient basis for international law to go to military action against Iraq, a new decision on this in the UN Security Council would be necessary. And then, after quoting the Prime Minister the day after the Iraq conflict broke out, the Foreign Minister went into what's gone wrong in Iraq, both the prison treatment and, last but not least, the attack on these two cities. So I think the Foreign Minister here in a thorough way illustrated both that it was wrong to go under attack, and what has gone wrong. Then he tried in an affordable way to continue – and I quote, because there are very few who have been in this good, consistent distribution that was leading from the Foreign Minister – three points that are needed now: ‘First, to contribute to improved security and stability in all parts of the country. We have no positive development in Iraq without increased security. Secondly, strengthening the democratic political process – a process in which the implementation of the elections in January next year will be a milestone. We have no broad and stable development in the country without strengthened legitimacy for the Iraqi regime. Thirdly, to facilitate and establish the framework conditions for the economic development of the country. The reconstruction and revitalisation of the economy is also a prerequisite for positive development in Iraq.» I think the three points are completely basic to move on. Before the outbreak of war and in time after, we in Norway were very busy with a debate on the UN track. I'm glad the government was following the United Nations track at the time. I also believe that the Government can be quite safe and say that she has followed it further, and the foreign minister's statement also clearly demonstrates that it is the UN track that has the basis for the Government's arrangement all the time. It is also this, together with the decision of the NATO Council, which is now the basis of a possible quota with Norwegian officers in Iraq – that is the UN track, and that is the NATO track. The government says it will consider it. The Christian People's Party will not contradict the fact that one comes to that conclusion based on the track called here. I don't want to say that the Labour Party is not loyal to NATO and to the UN track because if they come to another conclusion here, even though when I heard the leader in the committee, it seems that the argument on that point was as much domestic policy as foreign policy. When it comes to what has been said by the representative of the Halvorsen about these six countries, and also the leader of the committee, I myself was at a meeting where NATO's council was present, where it was said very clearly by the representative of Germany, the NATO ambassador from Germany, that they would not join forces, but they would be very active in training the forces of the regime. It shows that when the representative Halvorsen says they won't participate, it's wrong. Most of the six countries are actively involved in training forces. Now one might not expect SV to follow a NATO track, but here there is a combination in that way that NATO has taken a decision on the basis of its UN decision, and that is what triggers what led to the Foreign Minister's assessment. Therefore again, I would like to commend the Foreign Minister and the Government for a very clear attitude all the way. That being said, it is clear that the situation is causing great concern. The minority situation has been mentioned earlier today. It was a group that was not mentioned here, it was the great Christian minority that exists in Iraq, which paradoxically had quite good relations under Saddam Hussein, and which is now fleeing in quite large crowds after the occupation. It shows that when the fundamentalists get hold of the opposition here, it will affect the minorities – it applies to all the minorities, but it applies not least to the Christian minority. The leader of the committee said that the United States needs help from others, for example: from countries in the Middle East. I think that's a good strategy. But as one agrees that the United States needs to increase the legitimacy of security developments, it must also make sense that countries that opposed the war are still involved in clearing up. Although there is a symbolic force we're talking about here, it should actually be something that speaks towards the fact that it should be easier to get engaged land in the Middle East if Norway enters. So I see that it can be most pleasant not to attend, but at the same time I look like both UN decisions and NATO decisions very good grounds for participating. I would also like to say that I am pleased that the Centre Party has come to that conclusion. They, like the Christian People's Party, have always been concerned that the UN should have great legitimacy. I found them with the position they have taken now, in a good way follow it up. Finally, I thought that the way the representative Kristin Halvorsen talks about the government's position, and the way she talks about the government party's attitude tends to be almost a cartoon. After the representative, Høglund, who says that there is no dangerous way in the long term for the United States to remain in Iraq, Halvorsen says that it is more than the government's representatives have said. I ask that it be documented. As far as I have heard, the Government has always been aware that it is necessary for the United States to withdraw as soon as it is safe to defend itself, and not leave Iraq to civil war and internal chaos. So when one calls for apathy, when one asks another not to simplify, I'll ask the representative Halvorsen to do the same, if not to simplify this situation. He's hard enough. But I think the Foreign Minister has in a good way clarified his policy, which has my and the Christian People's Party's strong support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1267	I will first thank the representative Lilletun for taking the time to explain to us what the Foreign Minister said in his statement. That was a very detailed comment. But we were, in fact, largely in agreement with what the Foreign Minister said in his statement. Nor was it the Foreign Minister who raised the question of the interpretation of NATO decisions, of the interpretation on which the Government is based, or of the interpretation on which the Labour Party is based, the correct one. I believe that Lilletun is fully in line with the representative, Mr Höglund, that both assessments are well in line with the call that has come from NATO, which is signed in NATO, also with the Norwegian voice, and that one can thus cancel the debate that the representative has started on earlier today, as he is the only one who has voiced that one here might raise questions about NATO loyalty.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1274	As I said in my post, I thought the leader of the committee, Jagland, had a very interesting analysis. I agreed most of the time, but I needed to show that the foreign minister had actually gone into what was perhaps to some extent requested. When it comes to who is most loyal to NATO, I would say that, in my view, both the interpretation of the Government and the Labour Party are good within following up NATO's decision. But when that is said, I would say that there is even more consistency in what the Government does. That's also what's most consistent with the majority of NATO countries do. I would like to know that the Labour Party was also willing to go that step forward, but so I don't know if the Labour Party is still a loyal NATO party or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1283	After all, we broke with the Atlantic foreign policy orientation when we went against the war. We did that together with many other NATO countries. We have learned in the debate today that it needs more than military force. There must be some political action to find a solution in Iraq. And we're probably back where we're going to be, that a real political UN track is going to enter the image. We know that we have engaged less and less in the United Nations, while the Government, and not least the Prime Minister, uses to express that the United Nations is our main commitment. But what time can we expect the Christian People's Party to come back on the real UN track in this context too, precisely by getting the United States to withdraw more and more militarily and get a political solution that must include the United Nations, so that one could then achieve a real legitimacy for the UN decisions also among the peoples of Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1292	In my view, the real UN track must be what the United Nations has said in its resolutions, and in their resolutions they have said that they want strengths to stabilise Iraq, they want help to train Iraqi security forces, and they want one to also go into and influence a political process to create a democratic Iraq. And that's what I'm criticising SV for, not for not wanting to do the best for Iraq. But one underscores the need to stabilise, to help with security forces. For if a person just says that this does not have legitimacy, one cannot go further. The Christian People's Party recognizes the difficulty with legitimacy as the situation is, but it's the only solution we have on the table in the blink of an eye. Then one has to work in parallel with other solutions, but that's the track we're on, which is the UN track.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1299	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1303	The Central Party would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement, a statement which clearly indicated that the situation in Iraq is very worrying. We all know the story, and I don't want to go into it any further. But the situation today is that the international war in Iraq has made the world more dangerous. It has not helped to bring the fight against terrorism forward, rather it has created a breeding ground for new, extreme fundamentalism. In addition, we see that the war results in increased civil suffering. The numbers of civilians who have lost their lives as a result of the war vary between 14,000 and 100,000. American experts from John Hopkins University in the United States say in a report that they believe 100,000 is a conservative estimate of how many have lost their lives as a result of the invasion. The situation of the Iraqi population seems to be getting worse. The number of malnourished children has shot in the weather. The acute malnutrition among Iraqi children has almost doubled since the US invaded the country in March 2003, showing FAFO figures. The number of young children at risk of life is estimated to be 400,000. It's just such a situation it was warned against before the war. The situation in today's Iraq stands in stark contrast to what Right Inge Wage said as late as last May, when he said, according to the Class Fight: ‘The opponents of the war drew a non-rooted horror image in reality’. So you can be wrong, and of course you won no war without winning the peace. The Central Party had expected the Foreign Minister, in his presentation, to have been very clear that the war in Iraq was without a UN mandate, and international law-enforcement. I hope that the Foreign Minister will clarify this in the course of the debate, just as the UN Secretary-General has done. The situation in Iraq is out of control. The United States and the United Kingdom must take full responsibility for the chaos that is now raging in the country. But the dilemma is that the situation that the United States, the United Kingdom and the coalition of the willing have created in Iraq have become a common problem for all, including those of us who opposed the war. Iraq cannot therefore be left to chaos. The worst thing that can happen now is that Iraq is falling apart and that the situation is developing even more into a regional conflict. We must remember that Iraq is an artificial state-formation – which many people have been involved in here – created by the British in the early 1920s. A fragmentation, a third, of the country will be very dangerous. In order for Iraq to take care of its own development and the occupying powers to withdraw, structures need to be built to enable it to take care of law and order. The country must therefore build its own police forces, build its own security forces. We must, for all things, avoid creating a vacuum of power in Iraq. We all believe that the British and the Americans are going out, but we have to stick our finger in the ground and see that we can't take care of ourselves so that the vacuum arises, and that the chaos will increase further. A unanimous NATO Council supports the decision that NATO should contribute to the training of security forces, including within Iraq. If, in this context, there is no Article 5 operation, it is a problem for NATO that countries which support decisions in the Council are not willing to follow up decisions in practice. This can help undermine NATO's legitimacy. We even see that countries which have taken part in unanimous decisions in the Council exclude that their country's military lending to NATO can be used in NATO efforts to implement what the Council has decided. This undoubtedly represents a development in NATO that could harm the organisation. In view of the fact that Norway has taken part in a unanimous decision in NATO to contribute to the training of Iraqi security forces, the Central Party will not oppose any decision by the Government to participate with a limited number of instructors within Iraq. But we ask the Government to consider carefully whether it is possible to have satisfactory security arrangements in Iraq, or whether it is wiser to intensify training at Jåttå. From our point of view, there is also uncertainty as to whether Norway has the capacity to contribute to the training of Iraqi security forces in Iraq. This has to be assessed on the basis of other commitments made by Norway, not least the priority given to efforts in Afghanistan, as expressed by the Stortinge in various contexts. It is with some wonder the Centre Party records that the Workers' Party is not prepared to follow up NATO's decisions by contributing to our position in relation to training security forces inside Iraq as well. The Labour Party has previously given a clear signal to send Norwegian soldiers to Iraq under British command, but therefore refuses to have people in Iraq who will contribute to the training of security forces in a purely NATO mission. It is difficult to understand how this is linked, because the capacity problem is obvious not the headache of the Workers' Party, as capacity is fully available to EU combat teams. I'm not saying that there's a dramatic difference between what's the Government, the Progress Party and the Central Party's point of view on this matter, and that line the Workers' Party is putting on, but I'm saying that it's a paradox that you've been willing to stand up to the British command, but not in a pure NATO operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1337	I noticed that Åslaug Haga in his main post repeated the line she had to me in the line change. I don't see any reason to go further into it, for I consider that clear from my point of view. I just want to remind you that the perspectives that were put forward in the Norwegian debate at the time, in May, went on, among other things. World War III and similar things. So I think to the extent that the statement she referred to was timely enough. What is much more interesting, however, is that there is now a picture where the three parties wishing to appear as government options take three different positions in the current situation with regard to the management of Norwegian NATO membership. SV follows its usual trail. They want Norway to take care of itself in NATO so that NATO membership is in practice zero. The working party is on a strange intermediate track. There I agree with Åslaug Haga. But the Central Party fully agrees with the Government on the management of NATO membership. Does this mean that Åslaug Haga sees that in the future triangle it is the Center Party that should be the guarantor that Norwegian foreign policy is firmly established?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1344	In relation to the representative's initial comments, I cannot recall that there was a danger of World War III and that it was the argument of the opponents of the war around the outbreak of war. But what the opponents of the war were concerned about, and as they clearly stated, was that there was a real danger that Iraq could be fragmented through a military attack on the country and that we could have a major conflict in the region. And it's a fact that per. Today we have not come to you that we can say that that danger is not present. There must be a significant cross of thought for them as ‘casher in’ the victory in May this year. SV's NATO resistance is known. SV has recognised that if there is to be a centre-left government, they must accept government on the basis of a NATO membership, just as the Centre Party must accept government on the basis of the EEA. In this matter that we are discussing today, I have found that the difference between the Workers' Party and the Centre Party is not very large.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1354	The centre party chooses to support the training of Iraqi security forces. As I have achieved this in the media and in the room now, the Central Party has based its view that once the Council of NATO has decided this, Norway should set up. A number of NATO countries have refused to contribute to the training of Iraqi security forces, particularly in Iraq. This is a fact. So there's no consensus on this in NATO, and that's up to several reasons. Does the representative Haga think that this contribution from NATO will contribute to increased security in Iraq, or is that the disagreement we are now seeing in NATO, which is why there is a need for the Central Party to conclude the decisions of the NATO Council? Or more specifically, does the representative Haga think that the disagreement we are now seeing in NATO should be remedied by the fact that Norway is extra willing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1361	There are two factors that make the Central Party ready to accept a decision that may come from the Government that we should stand up in relation to training security forces inside Iraq. One is that when the Government has been sitting in Brussels and voted in favour of a decision which implies this, we should definitely follow it up. We are concerned about a development in NATO where we sit in the NATO Council and take decisions without the Member States being willing to follow them up in practical policy. This has been the problem of the United Nations over time, and it must not happen within the framework of NATO. As good NATO supporters, we are committed to following up decisions in the NATO Council. The second lies in the situation on the ground in Iraq. If we're going to manage to get to the point where the Americans and the British are moving out of Iraq, Iraq is totally dependent on having functioning security forces and a functioning police force.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1368	When Åslaug Haga began to talk about the need to follow up decisions in NATO's council, I became very interested, especially in the context of the history here and the Central Party's attitude then. But what I'm asking is whether Åslaug Haga can also help explain the fact that the Central Party will not follow up NATO's advice on perhaps the most important thing, namely the protection force of these training officers. It has to be much larger than that of the training officers themselves. So a decision in the NATO Council has many elements. The central party will follow up two of the elements, but not the third – that is, the same thing as the government's view. Is that so that what she is now saying about following up NATO's advice, means that the Center Party will also open up for participation in the protection force itself, which can count about 1 300 men?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1375	I understand that the Workers' Party is a little hurt over this discussion related to their NATO loyalty. I'm not asking questions about their NATO loyalty. I just note that it is a small paradox that it is possible for the Workers' Party to support having Norwegian soldiers in Iraq under British command, but not that we can have Norwegian military personnel to train Iraqi security forces in Iraq within the framework of a purely NATO mission. I think that's a paradox. But then I have also clearly stated that I do not feel that there is a significant or dramatic difference between the line on which the Workers' Party has applied and the line on which the Government is based. We have only reserved the right to point out the paradox.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1380	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1383	The left joins the Foreign Minister's presentation and the perspectives drawn up there. The situation in Iraq is still very unstable. Despite the significant military resources deployed, the situation in parts of the country cannot be said to be under control. The road to increased stability goes through political processes based on democratic values. It is a process for which the world community has a joint responsibility to succeed. The basis is set out in Security Council Resolution 1546. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs presented the government's clear and unambiguous position on the invasion of Iraq. The government believed that the UN inspectors would continue their work, and the government felt that there was not enough ground for international law to go to military action against Iraq. Now, however, we need to concentrate on the measures that can help rebuild the community in Iraq: Firstly, we must contribute to improved security and stability in all parts of the country. We have no positive development in Iraq without increased security. Secondly, we need to strengthen the democratic political process – a process in which the implementation of the elections in January next year will be a milestone. We are not getting a broad stable development in the country without strengthened legitimacy for the Iraqi regime. Thirdly, it is important to facilitate and establish a framework for economic development in the country. The reconstruction and revitalisation of the economy is also a prerequisite for positive development in Iraq. With its natural resources, Iraq is well placed to survive in the long term without international development assistance. On the other hand, the situation that is destabilising in Iraq needs to be prevented. Abu Ghraib's imprisonment was outrageous and devastating. The same was the TV footage from Fallujah that showed that US occupying forces shot down and killed what appeared to be a defenseless Iraqi. There must be no doubt that the Geneva Convention applies and must be respected in Iraq. Violation of it must be investigated, and the culprits must be held responsible. The frequent and devastating attacks from the rebel forces also have destabilising effects. The international community must clearly distance itself from these attacks. Despite a very difficult safety situation, it has now been possible to follow the progress plan for the establishment of legitimate governance structures. Left supports the government's clear position that we must also support the Iraqis in their efforts to gain control and control of their own country. According to the World Food Programme, a quarter of the population is totally dependent on food to survive. If the situation in Iraq is to be stable, the people of Iraq must also meet their basic needs. It is positive and very important that Western countries and Russia, through the Paris Club, have agreed on 80 pst. ticks for Iraq. It is in their place to praise Norwegian voluntary aid organisations for their efforts. Humanitarian aid is an essential part of Norwegian aid. Norwegian People's Aid operates a democracy project and mine clearance. The Church's Emergency Aid, Save Children, Red Cross and Tromsø Mining Damage Centres are among organisations that have received support for projects in areas such as health, aid for refugees, water supply, sanitary conditions and not least mine clearance. With regard to Norwegian industry involvement in Iraq, this is a two-sided issue. On the one hand, it is positive for Norway and for Iraq if, with our competence, we can respond to the call of the interim government to assist with our competence in the field of petroleum. On the other hand, we have seen examples of American companies, especially in the field of petroleum, which have obtained contracts in Iraq that have subsequently been called into question. When companies operate in such an unstable society as Iraq, it imposes additional demands on social responsibility and ethical assessments. I assume that Norwegian companies acting in Iraq are responsible for this. Me and the Left do not interpret the re-election of George Bush in November as an expression of support from the American population for the continuation of the Iraq policy of the current administration. Here I support election analyses that were made on which questions American voters were concerned. But we in the Left had wanted a new course in the United States after the November elections. But once the elections have been completed, it is clear that we in Norway must aim to continue with good and constructive cooperation over the Atlantic. Now we must also hope that the US administration will focus more on international cooperation and dialogue, rather than alone or resolve alliances on a case-by-case basis. To the extent that Norway can help to promote this, we need to use the opportunities we have to do so. It is now important that the American side engages more strongly in finding solutions to the Middle East conflicts. From the Israeli and Palestinian sides, we have registered a new willingness to contact after Arafat's death. It is important for the stability of the region that it is possible to make a legitimate choice in the Palestinian maritime governance areas. However, Israel has the key to making it possible to hold a presidential election at all. Israel must not impede the implementation of the elections and must not hinder Palestinians in all areas from voting. The left is pleased that the Government wants to contribute to solutions here. Finally, I would like to say something about the troubled situation that we have seen in Ukraine in the last few days. At this moment, the opposition in Ukraine is fighting for the future of its own democracy. It is a reminder to all of us that seas in our own continent are not the battle for democracy and free elections won forever. It must remind us that democracy is something we must all fight for if it is to be kept alive and maintained. I am pleased that the United States and the EU have clearly expressed their criticism of the implementation of the elections. I am also pleased that Norway has presented the same criticism during the meeting of the OSCE Council in Vienna just a few days ago. For the opposition in Ukraine, it is important to get that kind of signal from the outside world. Let us all hope that the situation in Ukraine will be resolved by peaceful means, and that it will soon be possible to make a new choice in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1421	The situation in Iraq is difficult. This is not just due to the various armed groups and terrorists in the country. A great responsibility rests also on those countries that went to war under the leadership of the United States. Let me again stress that Norway was against the war, and I show in this respect the reasons for the statement I made from this pulpit on 21 March last year, the day after the war had begun. But now we have to look forward. We must not allow our opposition to the war to be an obstacle to helping the Iraqi people. They need our help to be able to control and control developments in their own country, and so that the foreign forces can leave as soon as possible. It is the government's clear opinion that the consideration of the Iraqi people and international law must still be the most important factors when we define our national Iraq policy. In line with the long lines of Norwegian foreign policy, the Government has followed the UN track – both before and after the war. As early as May 2003, the Security Council adopted Resolution 1483. It was the basis of the Government's decision to send engineer soldiers to Iraq in June of that year, and staff officers linked to the British and Polish headquarters. Our goal was and is to contribute to the construction of the Iraqi society. In the following year, the Security Council adopted new resolutions with even stronger requests for contributions to the stabilisation and reconstruction of Iraq. In the summer, the Norwegian engineers completed their mission, as planned. Through their efforts, they have saved lives and made life easier for many people in southern Iraq. We are proud of their efforts. Our main focus is now becoming increasingly the political process of Iraqi autonomy, elections and democracy. This is also highlighted in the recent International Conference on Iraq, in Sharm el Sheikh. Iraq must be able to control and control developments in its own country so that foreign forces can be withdrawn. In this context, it is essential to assist the Iraqi authorities in building up national security forces. We have therefore offered the Iraqi Interim Government to assist in training senior Iraqi police officers in Norway. In the light of Security Council Resolution 1546 of 8 June this year, the NATO Summit in Istanbul in June decided to contribute to the training of Iraqi security forces. As a follow-up to these decisions, Norway has arranged for the training of a number of Iraqi officers at the NATO centre of Jåttå near Stavanger. The Government also assesses the contribution of a limited number of instructors, with administrative support staff, to the training of Iraqi officers in Iraq under the auspices of NATO within defined training centres. The personnel with whom Norway will contribute, if appropriate, will not participate in or contribute to the planning or conduct of military operations. This is beyond the mandate of NATO training missions, but it would also not be appropriate for Norway to participate in the protection force or in activities outside the training centres concerned. It would be positive if Norway could thus provide its support for Iraq to build up military forces based on international law and humanitarian values. Our goal – as I believe the vast majority of Iraqis share – is for the country to have a defence that, unlike Saddam Hussein's military apparatus, respects human dignity and the individual's inescapable rights. However, we must weigh our desire to contribute to this against the limited resources we have, and the difficult situation that is in Iraq. Iraq needs its own security forces, but military resources are not sufficient to facilitate peaceful and positive development in the country. Stabilisation depends on the ability of both the Iraqi authorities to maintain law and order in the country and their legitimacy. The political process is crucial for the legitimacy of the new Baghdad authorities. The elections to the new national Parliament, which are scheduled to take place at the end of January next year, will thus be very important. The fact that the UN now has a central role in the preparations for elections is a good sign. Norway supports the preparations for the planned elections. The political process has broad support among the Shia Muslims and the Kurds. The challenge is to involve the Sunni Muslims in central Iraq in the forthcoming elections and the further process. It is important that the choices become representative and that they can be implemented in a good way. The sunni-dominated areas have been hit most by the unrest that occurred after the war. These are the areas where Saddam Hussein's regime had the strongest support. Former Iraqi regimes have also favored the Sunni Muslim Arabs in the country, which is a minority. They fear, therefore, that they will lose sight of the introduction of democracy that the majority of Iraqis want and that one is now trying to establish. It is important that the Sunni Muslim Arabs are not only involved in the political process but also feel that the reconstruction of Iraq benefits them. At the same time, the demanding safety situation makes reconstruction particularly difficult in this part of the country. A significant part of Norway’s overall efforts in Iraq is humanitarian aid directed by non-governmental organisations. The transition aid is also important. It is channelled through the International Fund for Iraq of the United Nations and the World Bank. As of the second half of this year, there has been a shift in gravity, so that the predominant part of the Norwegian effort in Iraq is now taking the form of civil assistance. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned in his statement, there is also a provision for business activities in Iraq. A bilateral dialogue on cooperation in the field of petroleum is particularly interesting. Iraq is interested in the oil and gas competence of Norway, but also in our competence in the management of resources. It is important to create a sustainable management of Iraq's oil resources and to ensure that they benefit the entire population. It is difficult to exaggerate the importance of this in terms of reconstruction. Iraq is a challenge for the world society. That is why, in his speech at the International Sharm el Sheikh Conference on Iraq last week, the UN Secretary-General stressed that we need to work together to support the political transition process in Iraq. If this does not succeed, it will have dramatic consequences – not just for the Iraqis themselves, but for the whole region. Yes, even our own security may depend in a given situation on the ability of the Iraqi people to govern and control developments in their own country. In this way, I agree with the committee leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, who said about seeing this issue in connection with the whole region. Iran is a source of conflict. It is essential that this issue can be resolved by political – non-military – instruments. In this way, the EU's contribution to seeking to halt Iran's nuclear programme is positive. I also agree that it is important to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Now there are new opportunities to start the process – under the direction of the Quartet, the United Nations, the EU, the United States and Russia. I myself, in talks with UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in New York and in telephone calls with President Bush, have underlined this and their responsibilities in this way. Finally, in the foreign policy debate on Iraq on 20 February last year, I underlined the concern of the civilian population as one of the main reasons why we are working so hard to solve the Iraq problem without war. Even today, the concern for the civilian population is the main reason why we are so strongly committed to stabilising and rebuilding Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1471	I think it was wise words that now came from someone who obviously knows the statesman's art, which is not trying to create or construct a split, but rather to seek consensus where it is. If there is a dilemma for the Stortinget in the matter of Norway’s contribution to NATO’s decision, it is a dilemma for the whole of the Storinget. We want to contribute, but no one will help to protect those who will contribute in Iraq. We'll leave that to others. It's a dilemma. But precisely because of the wise words that the Prime Minister now said, I want to ask a question. I think he might be able to help you look at the conflict that is in NATO, which I think is very serious. It has its origin in the fact that the United States does not understand why this is so difficult for many NATO allies, but neither do the NATO allies – I think – understand or place great enough emphasis on what you should contribute to the common good. This can develop into a deep conflict — it is already. What can you do within NATO to bridge these conflicts in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1482	It is true that, in particular, the Iraq issue created a significant conflict both in NATO, between NATO countries – and also in the EU. It is important for Norway, as a member of NATO, to seek to build a bridge over it and to build a better bridge over the Atlantic. I have allowed myself to support President Bush after the re-election of him as President. I think the best way to do this now is to look forward and not hang too much again in the history of what has happened in Iraq. It was a positive step in the right direction that the Council of NATO in Brussels was able to unite unanimously on an operational plan for the training programme in Iraq. In fact, Norway contributed greatly to this. We had our views on this plan of operations. They were largely taken into account, and it became a unanimous decision. The fact that the NATO countries saw some degree of disparity contributes concretely to the follow-up to this decision can be said to be so. We should not exaggerate those conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1491	The Prime Minister — and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his presentation — discussed the importance of establishing a democracy. We agree with the heart. At the same time, this will be an 'island' of democracy, surrounded by more or less totalitarian states. The Prime Minister pointed to the challenge in Iran, what we are facing there. He pointed out that the EU now has a policy towards Iran in relation to the nuclear programme, etc. But in view of the regional situation and the importance of Iran: what kind of policy does Norway have to meet the challenges of democracy, human rights and nuclear threats?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1498	It is true that this is a region where democracy is generally weak. But things happen in the right direction. If we take for granted a country like Afghanistan, it was relatively promising, what happened at the elections there. There are also some other positive developments. In Iran, unfortunately, things have gone the other way. After progressive forces had a significant influence in Parliament – also President Khatami must be said to belong to them – the last election was a step backwards, with many candidates refusing to stand up. I believe, however, that we must choose political instruments, economic instruments and trade policy instruments in relation to Iran, not military ones. Should it be a military conflict, I really imagine a disaster. Norway should cooperate here, primarily through the UN, but also with the EU, which now has an active policy vis-à-vis Iran.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1505	I agree with the Prime Minister that the great challenge now is to look ahead in Iraq. What is the big paradox is that more and more people, both in the United States and outside, see that the presence of the United States increases the opposition and resistance in Iraq and makes it more difficult to establish a legitimate future civil rule. In this situation, Norway’s response is to help make harm worse. Because it is not that the NATO countries that are actually going to participate in training in Iraq are going to be seen as something other than the United States? On the contrary, it will be that a few Norwegian officers will be under American protection and will be viewed as part of an occupational force. What is the Prime Minister's assessment of the situation? Does he share the concern that is now coming from more and more teams in the United States that the presence of the United States is increasing the resistance and contradictions in Iraq? And: Why do you have to do everything you can in Norway in order to stick up the densest possible way up to the United States in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1512	There is something I do not understand about SV's policy in this area. And Kristin Halvorsen has not indicated any way – no indication of any way – out of the problems in Iraq. We agree that the Americans should leave as soon as possible. But then we have to enable the Iraqis to rule their own country. And that's not going to help Kristin Halvorsen. Then they have to be able to have a police force and to have a military that makes them master in their own house. But it says no to that: we are not going to contribute to that. The consequence of SV's policy, if everyone were to act like that, is that the Americans are going to go beyond what is necessary in Iraq. So Kristin Halvorsen says that Norwegian officers will be under the protection of the United States, and thus will easily be seen as part of the occupying power. It's a positive error. NATO is responsible for the close protection of training centres where Norwegian officers, if we decide to do so, will contribute to training. It's not the occupying power, it's NATO. But I have a feeling that the SV's position on this question is a reflection that SV is still a NATO opponent.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1526	Yes, we're going to spend most of the time thinking ahead, but it would have been okay to clean up one thing: the Secretary-General of the United Nations has been very clear that the Iraq war was a violation of international law. On the Norwegian side, the Government continues to talk about the lack of a sufficient basis for international law. There is a lot of important nuances in this language, and we have missed to hear the Minister of Foreign Affairs being as clear as the Secretary-General of the United Nations that this was a war of international law. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he can use this opportunity to be as clear as Kofi Annan that this was a war of international law-enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1533	Norway's position, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also stated in his statement, is that when there was no new decision in the UN Security Council, the war against Iraq was not in line with international law. And that's my attitude to that question, it should be clear now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1538	I am amazed at how easily the Prime Minister takes on the following issues: Norway may be involved in training Iraqi soldiers in Iraq as one NATO country, while many other NATO countries say no. For all practical purposes, Iraqis will view Norway as part of the US presence in Iraq and as part of an occupation force. Now the recognition in many countries is that the United States is part of the problem and makes it worse. Norway’s response to this is to help make it worse. Instead, Norway could think that it could contribute in the long term in a situation where there were no similarities between Norway and the United States in Iraq, and where Norway as such could have invested more in what could be a civil regime and a legitimate situation in the future. Is it really the case that the Prime Minister believes that Iraq is going to be a great difference between the participation of the United States and Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1545	I have to keep in mind that I think it's kind of strange at SV's point of view here. I understand that it is ok that Norway contributes to the training of Iraqi officers only it happens at Jåtta in Stavanger. But if it happens in a demarcated camp inside Iraq, it becomes completely wrong, even though NATO has unanimously decided that it can happen, and has unanimously adopted an operating plan for how it should happen. So this is not the decision of the United States, it is the decision of NATO. Now I know that SV is against NATO, but they have to accept that Norway is there, and I realize that they will also do that if they are to sit in government. And not enough with what the United Nations has, and we consistently follow the UN track, which SV does not, requested contributions to stabilisation. NATO has followed it up by a unanimous decision. It's NATO, not the United States, that's going to be in charge of training, and it's NATO that's going to be in charge of close-up protection. That then there might be someone who can't see the difference between NATO and the United States, no one can guarantee us. I understand that SV has problems seeing that difference. But I think most people see the difference between the United States and NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1557	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1560	The Secretary of State's statement last Tuesday on the development of Iraq was a description of today's situation and in many ways a desire for a better world. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said at the beginning of his statement on Tuesday: «Unfortunately, the security situation in Iraq has not improved since my last statement, 14 June this year.» The Minister for Foreign Affairs said at the beginning of his presentation on 14 June this year: ‘Unfortunately, the security policy situation has not improved since my regular foreign policy presentation in January.’ It might be said about the statement on Tuesday as well. It gave the impression of reluctance to concrete solutions to the current situation in the many conflicts that are taking place. The UN will have to take resolutions, but without the will to follow up on them, if necessary with power, it will only talk. There are still bloody battles in Iraq, where religious and political fanatics, including outside Iraq, do everything they can to create chaos. They care little about UN Security Council resolutions and the international community's support for the temporary Iraqi government and democratisation plans. On 8 June this year, the Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 1546, which transferred the functions of the multinational occupying authorities to the Interim Government after 30 June. That doesn't mean the job in Iraq is over. It is important that the international community join forces to ensure security until free elections are held and a democratic Iraqi regime is established in 2005. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has clarified that an international military presence in Iraq is needed in the future to stabilise the situation in that country, as a prerequisite for both political and economic development. I see that the Foreign Minister shares these views and that the Government has decided to continue to participate in the military stabilisation work in Iraq. But a military presence of ten Norwegian staff officers can hardly guarantee either the peace or the security of the relief organisations that, together with the civilian population, help to build the country. This contrasts with what the Government says, and what the Government does. It is important for the international community to show a firm attitude and not be intimidated by destructive groups, but to show solidarity with those who want peace and democracy. Saying that you were against the war doesn't help the civilian population. It is important to show solidarity and to be constructive, including, if necessary, weapons, in order to safeguard life and health. Spending money on construction is of little use if others tear down. If we can't create a safe situation that allows the United Nations, or other relief organizations, to run their business for the benefit of the Iraqi population, we have failed. On 8 March, the draft new Constitution was signed by the Interim Council in Iraq and will apply to the permanent constitution adopted in 2005. Some unexplained things remain regarding Kurdish autonomy, but you hope to get them in place next year. The situation in Iraq has not improved, rather worse. Therefore, Norway should be willing to continue to provide the necessary training and resources to ensure that Iraq has its own security forces to protect its own population and the relief organisations contributing to the reconstruction of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1592	I intend to begin in that part of Iraq in which it stands best, in the north, in the Kurdish regions. We also had a meeting in the committee here a few days ago with a representative of the self-government there. It was quite clearly stated that even where unemployment, crime and terrorism are a major problem, also a major problem for democracy, precisely because it is the basis for establishing a civil regime – to bring about the establishment of political authorities. A labor even in that area with a reconciliation process, one actually has 274 mass graves around Iraq as a drive to identify. It shows what a huge process Iraq is going to go through in the long term. The Kurdish areas were the most rented in Saddam, but due to air-trafficking zones and other measures, the Kurdish areas were able to build local self-government. This means that these regions north of Iraq are the ones that work best, based on the goals of democracy, security and economic development today. So one third of Iraq is in a good way to contribute to a future Iraq because they have run themselves, and because one has respected the Kurds' needs. What will work in Iraq? I think identifying an opposition is important. We had earlier in the fall a visit by a lady who was a minister of human rights in Iraq in the Allawi government, as one of course can say a lot about, but she had been in opposition for 20 years, in Paris. So one had arranged for one in Paris to do political work, political opposition to Saddam Hussein. It's another part of the policy here in the country that we have to make sure that we give enough refuge, whether it's at Åndalsnes or in Oslo, just so that people from different countries can operate a healthy, serious opposition policy, against the regime they're opposed to. I think it's really preventative in relation to terrorism, because if people get good opportunities to do political work, don't get electoral means to work politically. I also think it is important to bring about credible solutions in Iraq, because much of the scepticism is just about those who ask: is there really the resources the West is after in Iraq? There is no doubt that there is great scepticism in that context. So I'm going to say once that work, this business start-up, is important. We see that in a lot of countries. We see it not least in poor countries, where it is almost impossible to get former soldiers to throw the automatic gun and replace it with agricultural gear. There's a lot to do here, and that's what the civil decisions are in these relationships. Then I want to quote a little bit from what's going on in the debate in the United States, because there it's going to be very open. It says directly in the United States that one in Iraq is on the way to different variants of Islamic rule, in the centre and in the south, and that Iraq is, of course, characterized by a very weak central power and administration for the benefit of military and region-based power, i.e. warlords who rule. The situation is also marked by the danger that the Kurds, just to preserve what they have achieved, can find ways to move even further away. One could risk Iraq obtaining status as a so-called ‘failing state’. That scepticism against what the United States is doing in Iraq is also strong in the debate in the United States. It's expressed in many ways. It says, for example. that the United States is not going to get rid of these deliberations and the points made in the US occupation debate, that one believes that the United States is not going to leave Iraq, and that they want permanent bases in the country, and that the United States will somehow secure Iraq's national wealth. One must, of course, produce real policies, policy results, which can refute these claims in practice. Here I would also warn against any Norwegian trade relationship, precisely because many people believe that what we from the West are after is oil. And then I'm going to say that in Norway, too, we should have the courage to innovate that this is a debate about what is the role of the only superpower in the world. What kind of foreign policy strategies can we expect the United States to have? And what can we expect from them in the future? What we're seeing now is that the UN is being sidelined. A new prep doctrine has been proposed. We also see that the atomic umbrellas are not superimposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1615	As I now look around the hall, I think we can at least see that this has not been a storm on the government. I think we can see that the line the government has added up to, in many ways has not received any answer in terms of any alternative to this line. I stressed in my statement to the Stortinget that the main question now is: are we contributing, or are we not contributing to the political process that the Security Council has drawn up? My clear response on behalf of the Government is that Norway should contribute, and I gave an operational response. I note that the Labour Party in many ways gives the same answer to this main question. There's a degree difference in how much you're going to contribute, and where, but no one does well to draw a fundamental distinction between contributing in Iraq and contributing to Yåtta. I agree with that. I don't think it's possible to draw such a fundamental distinction. But then we're going to have a more practical question: how much resources do you have, and how do you want to follow up? I therefore note that the main questions themselves have been answered positively by the Stortinget, by a very broad majority. I am not going to comment on SV's articles in particular, although there are many ways in which the alternative thinking is. When I don't, it's because this time SV has reinvented his role as an commentator, whose policy is to point to another political line, other things to be done, have other suggestions. So it must be noted that SV has not had any policy in this area. Despite several invitations to draw up what this policy would consist of, SV’s main speakers refrained from doing so. So I shouldn't say so much more about it, but just say that I think it's a little surprising that SV in this way slips away from the main question that I raised in my presentation to the Stortinget. I must therefore note that when, in a number of debates, Kristin Halvorsen has accused me of being vague and unclear, I just have to say that I now feel beaten with a solid margin in that area. So SV has no policy in relation to what we're doing now. There was a correct reference to the political process. I would like to remind you that Security Council Resolution 1546 is precisely such a political process. It is far from correct, as Mr Jagland said, that the occupying power continues to have occupying power in Iraq. It was a time gap that occurred at the mid-year change this year, but so now the Security Council has drawn up a political process, which, hopefully, will continue at the elections to be held in Iraq at the end of January, when the security force comes in. It is precisely to make this choice as meaningful as possible that there should be security in Iraq, so that as many people as possible can be involved. My question is basically in many ways: do you not support or support this political process? I don't want to say anything negative if you think it should be added to another political process, but the point is that no one has been close to drawing up such a different political process – nor SV. I have to say that I am basically amazed that SV to those degrees reindeer cultivates its role as an commentator in Norwegian policy, as they have done here. It's not just about this case, but I think we see it in a lot of other things. I think it'll be interesting to see what it leads to next year. But before they have any opinions, I'm not going to comment on this. In the case of the Israel-Palestine conflict, I will not go deep into this. It was just a supplement in my introduction, because I was asked to talk about Iraq and just about Iraq. I just want to say one thing, and it is that in many ways I fully agree with Thorbjørn Jagland that it will be extremely helpful and very important for other conflicts if you resolve this conflict. At the same time, I do not want to go so far as to say that the resolution of all conflicts takes place by resolving this conflict. It has been possible to make progress in certain areas of the Middle East without resolving this important conflict, for example: Libya's weapons of mass destruction, or the signs of reform that we see in the Gulf States. But that will be extremely helpful and important, I think we agree, and that's really what's the main question. That is why it is now a key issue to move the Israel–Palestine conflict forward in a positive way. The possibility is there, but at the same time I must say that I also see major problems with it, not least because the withdrawal plan for Gaza has many pitfalls. At the same time, we have to recognise that a Palestinian leadership must have its authority properly established before it can be expected that it will be possible to reach solutions. So a closing comment: when it comes to the issue of international law, we've been through it many times in Stortinget. I don't think I have anything more to say about it than what I've done before. I believe that the correct wording is the one that the Prime Minister used, and that I have also used on a number of occasions. This is a question on which more conclusions can be justified by law. That's why I think the wording that the government has applied so far covers this best. Otherwise, I might have to say, as far as Norwegian domestic policy is concerned, that I find it interesting to note that SV will not pursue its no to NATO position. I have no objection to that, and I think that in many ways is the reality. However, it should not be easy in any government other than the sitting to have these daily gourmet fights from SV going. That's not what's going to promote Western cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1636	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1639	It is worth noting the observation the Foreign Minister made to begin with. I want to strengthen it, in and on its own, because I think we've almost never had such a big deal in a concrete case involving Iraq. That's a degree difference, as he says, some would go further, we would go a little bit shorter. But when it comes to the question of whether or not to contribute, it is actually, as the Foreign Minister said, a party that will not contribute. I have also noticed one more element in the distribution to the Foreign Minister that I just want to underline, and that is that he says we should avoid a sliding extension of NATO's involvement. That sentence should be underlined, hung on the wall and repeated repeatedly outwards, because we are inside a fence. It's up to you to make sure that a person doesn't commit more than one is aware of the consequences. Finally, something that relates to the region otherwise, and the different approaches that have been to Iran from the United States and Europe. They may have filled each other, but I take it for granted that the Norwegian government is throwing heavily on the side of the European countries to get a negotiated solution when it comes to Iran's nuclear threat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1648	I think it is very correct that Blankenborg has observed, that the big difference in assignments we had to enter into is the transition from training, with the necessary security around, to become a general contribution to stabilisation in Iraq. It's really where the distinction goes in many ways, and the government has said that there's no way we can contribute as the situation is now. So I don't see the fundamental distinction here, whether it's in Iraq, on Yåttå or what kind of people you're contributing to, even though the government has said that the guard force is not our aim to contribute to it. There is no fundamental difference between the trainers and having the necessary fuse and watchkeeping around these trainers. But if you go into another assignment, yes, you're left in another situation. With regard to Iran, there was no one of what I was asked to talk about. That is why it was not part of my statement. I have not been able to deliver enough justice on that issue, but I just want to confirm that I too agree with Blankenborg that Europeans and Americans have in many ways a kind of good cop/bad cop act that can be carried out with great luck. I therefore believe that the European initiative deserves support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1655	It is not an unusual diet that the splendours hail over SV when the Minister of Foreign Affairs discusses Iraq. It is not unusual to call us both ‘seminars’ and ‘commentators’ when we say in Norwegian policy what is going on in the United States, in many EU countries and in many NATO countries. In this situation, SV’s position has support, for example: by the French Government, the German Government, the Spanish Government, the Greek Government and the Belgian Government. Those with whom Norway may participate in a NATO force in Iraq are Denmark, Italy, the Baltic countries, Romania and Bulgaria. I wonder if the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees with those who say from many teams in the United States that the US presence increases the contradictions, raises the opposition groups and makes it more difficult to find a peaceful solution. What is the Foreign Minister's assessment of it, and why worldwide does he believe that Norway, in the situation and the discussion that is now taking place in NATO, on death and life, will be linked to the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1662	The President would point out that there was some language here at the end that was not quite parliamentaryly correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1665	It's far too easy by Kristin Halvorsen to disapprove my objection that it's a bruteness. It was a mere observation that SV had no idea what to do, and she did not answer the question in the lines afterwards. SV doesn't make any sense about it. That's an actual observation. With regard to the American contribution: I don't think there is any alternative to American forces to create security in Iraq, as the situation is now. There's no ideal situation. I think it's important to get away from it as soon as possible, and then the concrete contribution is to ensure that the Iraqis are able to take care of their own safety. That is what the main question SV is not dealing with, and therefore there is no correlation between what SV now says in the debate and the conclusion being drawn. We're not connecting to the United States, as it's called, but this is a NATO contribution to trying to enable the Iraqis to rule in their own country. It is possible that SV would gradually be more interested in the Iraqis and less interested in the Americans. SV is not able to present a foreign policy position without the United States being involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1672	There is a critical and very difficult situation in Iraq. We all agree on that. The risk of fragmentation is present, with the hazards that may lie in it in relation to putting the whole region in fire. But the difficult situation in Iraq has been further hampered by the American clear violation of the international law of war, the Geneva Conventions. Keywords are Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib. The government has traditionally taken a great deal of distance from this way of acting. But my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, In what way and at what level have these relations with the US authorities been taken up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1680	Åslaug Haga and I are not at all in disagreement about the realities of these questions. I think it's quite clear that what we've seen, both today and recently, does not just put the solution to the Iraq issue back, but it puts back a broader Middle East agenda. That is why, on a number of occasions, on the part of the Government, we have promoted our positions in this way in public and in meeting with Americans at the levels we have been at. There has been no lack of questions about it. I mean, for example. to remember that the Prime Minister in his speech at the NATO Summit, where everyone was sitting around the table, was just concerned about this kind of question. That's not the only expression. There's been a lot of expressions for this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1685	I am really quite shocked at how little the Minister of Foreign Affairs is going into reality. The reality of the Security Council Decision 1546 is: Yes, it has legitimacy. It has been adopted by the Security Council. But no, it does not have legitimacy in Iraq. The reality is that more and more people see that the United States is making worse in Iraq, because they are seen as an occupying power. There is a lack of economic and social progress. It's hard to see that the United States is going to be part of the solution in the future. It is therefore also difficult to see that the training of Iraqi soldiers in the NATO regime, which will be seen as closely linked to the United States, will have a legitimacy in building a civil regime in Iraq in the future. This is not something SV has found. This is an international discussion. This is what the Republicans in the United States say. This is not something that the Minister for Foreign Affairs needs to marginalise as uninteresting seminar activities. I want to know what the Foreign Minister actually thinks that we are in such a serious situation, on the edge of civil war, near a election that is going to be boycotted by many in Iraq, closely linked to what is now seen as the main problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1694	I'm a little surprised, to say it carefully, that Kristin Halvorsen is trying to give the impression that I haven't addressed these questions. I do. Kristin Halvorsen knows that very well. This is a far too cheap way to hide the fact that with such a description as Kristin Halvorsen gives of reality – and I understand very well many of the assessments given there – SV is not able to have a single thought about how this should have a political answer, and that is even more astonishing. That's what's the alarming thing about the whole debate. SV is unable to bring the Iraq debate beyond the questions, the problems and the comments, but they do not say anything in relation to the contributions. It is possible that the contribution the Government points to in the statement, to help with the security situation and to try to support under resolution 1546, is not good enough, but unlike Kristin Halvorsen, we have at least an attempt to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30.ana.ud2554e1699	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over. Negotiations will be suspended and a new meeting will be set at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
