ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e44	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e47	On behalf of the representative May Hansen and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to cover expenditure on municipal services for women who are displaced from forced marriage and who are in crisis centres in a municipality other than the municipality of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e52	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e77	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 20 minutes each, Center Party 10 minutes, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e88	The budget to be adopted later today is the fourth budget for this period. It is a temporary end to a transport revolution that we have implemented with this budget and the three previous budgets. Even in a situation where we have had to have a tight government budget to re-establish the economy in the country, in order to make it possible to achieve economic development and secure jobs, we have found room for a significant increase in the opportunities for transport over the past four years. We've got a lot of things to do. triple the routes to Avinor, in support of regional airports. We have a budget of billions annually when it comes to the fees that the state has previously charged to air passengers, to bring down the flight prices. We have increased the permits to highways by well over 20 p.m., in fact, by just over 2.5 billion kroner over this four-year period, with a very strong emphasis on operation and maintenance, but it has also been a strong increase in investment. We have increased the licenses to Norwegian Railways by 20 pst. We have received a strong increase in the purchase of services from NSB, but also in operation, investment and maintenance in the area until the Railways Authority has received a strong increase. Many people have said that they want to increase their rights, that they want to take a force for Norwegian transport. This government and this government majority have shown that we are willing to do this, and that we are able to do it. I'm very proud of that as a committee leader and as a representative of the government party. But I am even more proud of the job we have now done in order to have a completely necessary transition in the Norwegian transport sector. The job we started, which we adopted for the autumn of 2001, we now have a very long time to do. We have separated the management part of Vegvesen, i.e. those who are responsible, and who have the opportunity to direct the work, from the performing part, in a private company – Mesta. We have released several other companies because they have become AS, still under state control. This is absolutely necessary to get more out of the money, to get more transportation for the heads we use on these important areas. What has probably created the biggest discussion in the last few days is what we are now doing in the railway sector, which we have done in the road sector and in other areas. Since there's been a lot of disinformation and a lot of misunderstandings about what this will mean, I'll go into it a little bit more. What we're doing in the railway sector is three things. And the only thing that I was in the past in the article is to increase the permissions, that is, that we're now investing significantly more than ever before on the railway, if we ignore exactly what happened during the extraordinary construction of the Gardermoban. It's the one. The second is a completely necessary strengthening of the role of the State as owner, the State's role as inspector, as inspector, as guarantor of the safety of the Norwegian railway system, by separating the part that is responsible, with management, with security, to do, from the part that goes on the carrying out production. We ensure that those who carry out the work are controlled by others other than themselves. The third part is that the production, that's what happens to normal production out there, is going to be competitive to try to get more out of the resources we use. The Norwegian railway system has been neglected for decades, and we are now taking into account both the promises and the reorganisation, it will strengthen security, it will provide us with a better rail system, and it will provide our customers – those who are passengers – with a significantly better supply in the long term. The experience from countries that can be compared with – Sweden and Denmark – also shows that there are gains to be gained, it is possible to get more railways out. So it's not like it's been claimed by some people, it's not about a saving campaign. There are extra permissions associated with reorganization. So it's going to be from the railway line, and so on. from the Norwegian Railway Federation, claims that they are not afraid of competition. No, we are not afraid of competition, says the Federal Secretary today in Political Quarter, but we are not allowed to compete! It's completely wrong. The whole point of the current switchover is that BaneService should be allowed to compete with others, and of course BaneService should take up the parts of the railway station that have to do with the pure production. Of course, as is the case in the State Road Service, the State Road Service cannot go out and compete with Mesta, nor can the Railway Works go out and compete with BaneService, but it is quite possible, as it has been in the railway works before, to compete with other operators coming in. I am sure that this conversion will also serve customers, passengers, in the long run. I am sure there are so many good forces in the Railway Agency and in the Railway Service today that we will get a better solution. I'm also pretty sure that there should be a government change – I hope it never goes this way, but it can happen – I don't think anyone will reverse this, when we've taken the trouble of converting in this area. Let me finally take one more thing. For very many of us who live on the coast, the ferries are a very important part of the national road network. What we're doing today – a historic decision, which unfortunately is not a full deal, but for which there is a clear majority – is that we make the coastal line open 24 hours a day by giving the two routes that are left without a night trip the means for a night trip from 1 January 2005. For many, this will be a detail, and it's not quite the big money, but it actually means that parts of our coast now are no longer closed. We get opening hours that both business and residents of these communities and along the whole coast will enjoy. Besides, the fact that we use resources to improve regularity to prevent too many cars remaining in two important ferry connections in Rogaland is part of complementing this image. For us, the highways are not only the roads, but also the ferry lines that connect them. All in all, this is a historic budget. We get plurals. I would like to thank the Progress Party for constructive support in this work, and I am overconfident that what we take when it comes to the promises, and the changes we make, will benefit Norwegian citizens for many, many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e114	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e117	I think maybe the government parties are quick out with their success stories about what has been achieved through these reorganisations that have taken place. Now, after all, there are other reports, which tell us about social costs far beyond what is believed to have been saved by the reorganization itself – costs that tell us about the brutalization of working life that I would have thought nobody would really be interested in getting in a welfare country like Norway. But I take the point that the government parties don't think this is a central issue. My question, however, is this: is it the opinion of the representative of Løvik that there is an unhealthy cameradericulture that stands in the way of better financial management and safety work within the Railway Agency?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e124	First of all, with costs. Yes, there are costs of the conversion, and we take them very seriously, even in the government party. And we are aware that in the short term, costs are higher than savings and improvements. But in, for example, We're already starting to see that the savings, the improvements on the road network, are greater than the costs. We have paid ourselves out of the problems we have had with those who have not got a new job, and I am sure that we have managed in a proper way to deal with those who have been added, for example. in the Road Service, in a good way. We've been very concerned that this is going to happen, because the government as an employer has a special responsibility. When it comes to what the representative calls camaraderie, I see absolutely no reason to use such words, but it is my clear belief that separating those who decide, those who control, from those who do the work, is very healthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e131	We have a road network in this country that leads to heavy accidents for the population and that leads to delays for business. In addition, we have seen that there have been many races this autumn that have led to tragic deaths. We have also seen that the tunnels in this country are too low in height, so that much of the heavy transport has to go by road. This costs business large sums, and of course it also costs the population large sums. Fortunately, in the negotiations the Progress Party managed to get 350 million. NOK extra for this work, which helps solve some of the problems. Of course, it's too little. My question is whether Løvik sees the challenges we have in the future, and whether he will be involved in raising the appropriations further.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e138	The answer is yes. Here, there are enormously bigger challenges than the ones we've been able to solve so far, but we're on our way. A Swedish politician once said about the results of his years in government that «we are proud, but not satisfied». I think it characterizes a little bit of what we feel. We have managed to reverse a falling trend, for example. in road investments, which have lasted for 10 years. We've turned him around and got a big boost. There is a lot left before we have completed this work. It will take several decades to correct the omissions that have occurred over several decades on behalf of Norway. We hope that we will also be in a similar situation in the next period, where the Progress Party can support a center-right-relationship in further increasing these permissions. That's the challenge we have in common, and then we get to fight about the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e143	Let me first say that I am a little surprised that the committee leader refers to BaneService AS as a company operating and maintaining the Norwegian railway system. That's not the case. Nor does it say anything in the papers we have received that it should be the future state operating and maintenance division for the railway. But to the question: This fall we have experienced a situation in Norwegian aviation that I don't think anyone dares to be proud of. We have major migration problems in Avinor – and we know it can be solved in security. We have increased competition, and we have major difficulties in the aviation oversight. Even representatives from the government parties have admitted that it has been unfortunate that all these changes take place at the same time. Now the government will repeat the success, but this time by the railway. We have to compete for the track and major shifts in the railway works at the same time. Can the chairman of the committee explain to me: Has he not learned anything from what has happened in aviation today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e150	In order to continue with what the representative Heidi Sørensen finally said: we should not go any faster than what is fully defenceful, when it comes to conversion into Norwegian railway. We will remember that the principle decision on this was actually made in the autumn of 2001, and it will be fully implemented from 1 January 2009. So it's going to be over a seven-year period. And if you can't do it in a defensive way, it's other than the Storting that should have a big problem, the ones that run these processes. It's the one. The second is that this whole process is to be carried out under the supervision of the railway supervision, which is completely independent. I have full confidence that they will make sure that this happens in a proper way. So talk to the representative Sørensen about Avinor. Yes, it's about heavy processes, but in the same way, there's a supervision that says from that day things don't really happen. They've done it a couple of times, and Avinor's been following this up to a point and a dot.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e159	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e163	I've been on a lot of companionships in this room, partly for the little hours. This period I have been involved in all the debates, and the commitment has increased with insight into the subject area and with the increase in the right-hand side of my eagerness to launch and privatise important societal tasks. They're talking about clearing up roles, and the only thing they're pointing at is putting out competition and privatization. They're talking about more roads and railways for the money, and the only thing they're pointing at is putting out competition and privatization. This suggests bad imagination. It is possible to clean up roles and get more out of money in other ways. So far, at least there is little evidence that what has happened to AS certification, postponing competition and privatisation has given us, that is. state, more for the money. The road may be producing something cheaper, road maintenance may be cheaper, too, but I'm not sure if we correct for the additional costs that the new system brings about when it comes to offering, supervision and control. There are probably several bureaucrats we get for the money for the road sector, no more roads or road maintenance. I guess that wasn't the point. If we were to look at social accounting in a broader perspective, the calculation might be even more discouraging. People get final packages from them is 45 years old and early retirement from them is my age, and some go out into unemployment or get unemployed. It's tough for the individual, and it's expensive for society. This pushes people out of work, which is the very opposite of what we want. We want people to work longer. Nevertheless, the zeal continues in a good liberalist spirit – not because it works, but because the right-hand side thinks it's right. They are now in a hurry to transform the Coastal Works and BaneService into a limited liability company and to put the railway company Operation on a competitive footing. It should be used for 400 million. NOK to get close to 1000 to finish at the Railway Station for the coming years. This represents the majority of the competence we have in rail operations in Norway, which is now to be left to a private market, which is at best small, in the worst case hardly exist. These private tasks are now to be assigned to operations and maintenance, tasks which are largely concerned with railway safety. This is an experiment the world has few examples of having been closed, on the contrary. This is an experiment that can lead to the fragmentation of responsibility and the weathering of the professional environment, rather than the opposite. This is too extensive anyway, and it's added to a process that's too fast. It is wrong, the representative Løvik said to TV 2 today. The railway company has not said that they have added 400 too much, they have said that they can reduce the number of people added by 400 over a few years and put out some of the work they do. As Heidi Sørensen said: BaneService is a project organisation for a large project, and in no way an operating organisation for the Railway Agency. Other speakers from the Labour Party will come back to this. I just want to say to the Council of State: that she is dry, and I had almost said, now again – now that the leadership of Avinor AS has alerted time-out on a similar process to engage in dialogue with them, as even VG and Evening Post in the lead place order that competition does not possess as well where one has duties related to operation and security in the transport sector! The fact that the Council of State on the radio is nearing a pre-Christmas Sunday set aside the director of the railway and justifying the transformation with claims about camaraderie and the lack of an overview of security makes it even worse. If this is what's behind it, I believe that the Council of State, in its formal argumentation, has led both the lead, they have added and the size behind the light. It may be that it is after the plans have been made concrete that the Railway Authority must enter and evaluate the proposals in a purely formal manner. However, it would be a good idea, according to the Workers' Party's assessment, to make part of these assessments before a case was brought to the Stortinget. It would probably also be a good idea to spend a little more time with the guide and add them to come up with common solutions. The right-hand side of his birthright is that almost 1000 of those added to the railway station should be terminated or terminated – no loving Christmas presage to those in debt, and their families. And it's basically not sure it's going to be anything of, a believe what was in the newspaper yesterday. It is possible that the Council of State thinks this is a good way to get together with them added in a demanding conversion. I don't think so. Today, the Railway Federation has a political strike. I have a lot of understanding for that. It is not in the right-hand side of the railway network that they sometimes talk about, in part in this room – the railway network has shared responsibly and constructively in many conversion processes. Now they're angry – at the proposal, at the arguments, and not least at the state council's claims of camaraderie. Today, they have the third political strike of over 80 years. My advice to the Council of State is: take them added, and for that matter the rental of the railway works, seriously before it is too late. So a little bit more: after the budget agreement, the government's party is almost $3.5 billion below what they promised in the national transport plan. The working party promised NOK 1.6 billion less and has allowed approx. Two billion more in our alternative budget. So we've kept what we promised, and we can even read it out of the government's own numbers. We've promised more for the next period. And we're going to have to think about that. In the Labour Party we believe that we must build the country all the time, and that over the next ten years we are facing major challenges. In 2005, we'll spend $1126 million. kr more than the Government. Of these, 50 million go to fishing ports, 520 million. NOK to road-goal and SEK 430 million. kr for public transport. I have to correct a number on page 20 in the setting, where it says we want to invest 35 million. kr in the railway line. It should be 52.2 million. kr, and there shall be level crossings and security measures. I'm not going to go into a lot of concrete road projects, but I have to say, because there are friends from Hardanger here who are very happy for the Jondal tunnel, that in the Labour Party we have 50 million. kr into this project next year, and I am happy that the majority have also found a scheme. The government does not care that a multiplicity has agreed to increase the licenses for railway investment from NOK 16 billion to NOK 26 billion in the next period, and has not increased the amount required to plan assets. The working party increases these permissions by 200 million. NOK, and we increase the fees for public purchases by NOK 100 million. This means, among other things. provide room for public purchases on the international train, primarily the Stockholm train, for Vägne, and for NSB AS to continue to provide discounts. The fact that the majority today with open eyes reduces the train supply abroad is completely incomprehensible to me. The offer is almost ruined from the new year. Rebuilding the offer will not be easy for new stakeholders. As talentless as this, it's most unlikely to be. I think the noise level will increase monthly when those who have used this environmentally friendly and effective offer find out what has happened. It was e.g. 185000 passengers travelling on the Stockholm train last year. The next thing to fully liberalize is, according to the proposition, the taxi industry. The matter comes back in the form of a legislative proposal. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party are against this. We think more control is needed than more freedom is needed in an industry where people will soon have to work twice in order to have a decent income. We also believe that conversion and, in part, closure of the traffic stations are going over the stick and stone, and therefore support the Center Party's proposal to stop the conversion and improve the impact. Not many plurals either. This is a sad day for train lovers and for people who are concerned about safety on the railways and at sea. New decisions are being taken here to prove difficult to implement, both because the proposals are wrong and because the processes have been bad and are likely to continue. I was visiting the DSB last Monday. They've also changed, and they've put out a lot of competition. They still have a different understanding – they take a long time, and they play on layers with them added. The working party will vote against the draft budget. We are therefore also voting against the transformation of the Coastal Works and BaneService into a limited liability company – it will be repeated at the Odelstingsmeeting later today – and we are voting against postponing the tasks of the Railway Works Operation. We also vote against «strupa» Post AS with an exchange of 74 pst. the surplus after tax by reducing the exchange by 126 million. kr, and we agree to reduce the risk of restructuring in Mesta AS by 100 million. kr in 2005. Should believe that the 2005 choice is not a choice – a choice of will to bet on commerce, but also a choice between a management-control trade sector and a sector primarily for private market players. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions we have made with the SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e217	The representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld has addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e222	The Labour Party has opposed all changes and competition. If I don't remember correctly, they were against the fact that the NRK was going to have competition from TV 2, against Avinor AS, against Mesta AS, against the transformation of the railway station, and now we hear that they are also against competition in the taxi industry. Security has been consistently used as an argument from that side. England has been drawn out as an example of that. In the committee we were informed by the Railway Agency that there had actually been more accidents in Norway than in England during the period of competition in England. It is strange that the Labour Party seems that competition between Skanska and Veileck in the civil engineering sector is perfectly OK, that competition between SAS Braathens and KLM and all other international airlines responsible for pilots, passengers and crew is perfectly OK, but not if there are public employees. Does not the Labour Party see any positive signs of competition, including for public employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e231	It's probably the starting point that's different, because we don't see competition as a goal, but as a possible tool. For us, the right-hand side looks like a target in itself, even if it doesn't work. We've been on some competitions, for example. on rail in the case of freight. It is not new that a competitor for road production. That's how it's been for a long time, even while we had the Road Service. Then there were many private actors who produced roads. What's new is that road maintenance is on offer. We went for a divisional model when it came to Vegvesenet. But we don't think we can take it for granted that everything gets better as soon as it gets private. What we see is that we actually don't get any more money. We get a lot more bureaucrats. I thought it was strange that the Progress Party went for changes that led people away from the road and across to the office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e238	The Government has authorised the initiation of operations at Rygge civil airport. The concession is granted for up to 750000 passengers. When Stortinget dealt with the Avinor announcement of ownership, it was based on a report from Societal and Business Research that was quite clear that this airport will enter into direct competition with Gardermoen and weaken the operating base of both the Gardermoen and the entire Avinor system. In fact, smoke is not to pay a fee to the single fund, the joint and several funding system for aviation. The working party has supported a civil airport at Rygge and that Rygge should not pay into the common fund, and will not be included in our remark that points out this problem. Does the Labour Party not see that this could be an economic threat, both to Avinor and the entire Norwegian airport network?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e247	I want to say first that I'm happy that the SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party are some of the important structural issues in the transport sector, so this is a small exception. But what we did, unlike SV, which says no to Rygge, was to say that if it is established the type of private airport – including Torp, which is already established – they should pay a concession fee to the public checkout. Smoking represents so many possibilities for Eastfold and the Austland area that if they contributed to the joint fund with the concession fee, we thought that we have found a very good solution, which I am still inviting SV to join. That the Government did not follow it up with a concession fee, the Labour Party cannot take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e256	The opposition – without government responsibility, as SV has been – has had the ability to promise most for all purposes. But that the Workers' Party, with its long experience, is also at the top of the promise, I must say amaze me. What we now experience is that they also tend to promise most, more to everything, within this budget. In the NTP, it was approx. NOK 2 billion. Here it's hard, I think, to get to a majority. It must then be characterised as an airlock, when we know that SV will have a minimum on the road and the Progress Party will have more to do. Is it, then, to understand that what is now contained in the Workers' Party's proposal is just airlock?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e263	I had hoped that the representative Holten would have taken a line on the Railway Agency and the launch of the competition, for there is one example of the many changes in the Christian People's Party after Bondevik II. They said they had to make sure that the Labour Party didn't go too far, while they now say that we don't go too far. We have kept what we promised during this period. We promised a little less than the Christian People's Party three years ago. We believe what we promised in this period. We're going to do it in the future. We've recognised that we can't continue to allow relatively less to get around each year. The permissions decreased from approx. 8 pst. for less than 3 pst. in the mid-1980s. We can't go on like that. We have to build the country all the time, and then we have to reverse that trend. That we have found more rights to trade in the last few years, I think I'm an example of how we can do it, even within the framework that another government has seen. And so we're going to follow it up, but then we might have to have a new multiple to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e273	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e276	The Progress Party will work in transport policy for the environment, safety, transport economy and accessibility. Carriage of goods and passengers shall take place in open competition and with full market management. The Party considers that competition between rail transport, maritime transport, air transport and road transport must take place without any of the operators having to pay a fee to finance other modes of transport. This means that the Progress Party will not use charges imposed on the drivers to finance the operation and maintenance of railway or other modes of transport. Such cross-subsidisation results in carriers choosing a transport solution that costs society more than if free competition between modes of transport became effective. It is of the utmost importance to invest in the most appropriate means of transport in relation to the transport operations to be undertaken. This will result in a more cost-effective use of public resources in transport and, in addition, in a fairer distribution of costs between modes of transport. The Party shall base its assessments of projects on their profitability. That means they have a high dietary benefit. The calculation of the cost-benefit is based on a calculation rate. In Norway, this rate is particularly high and varies between public travel, where it is 5 pst., and aviation, where it is 10 pst. It was claimed by the Government that this rate is based on a professional assessment, which the Progress Party considers to be of little credibility. It's worth noting that while interest rates vary from 5 to 10 pst. in Norway, it is 4 pst. in Sweden and 6 pst. magazines in Denmark. This leads, for example, to: that the construction of Svinesundsbrua, which is the gateway year to Europe for Norway, is unprofitable for Norway to build, while it is profitable for Sweden. This is a clear example of the fact that the calculation rate in Norway is wrong and needs to be lowered. This is particularly important for road projects where the Norwegian interest rate is 8 pst. – it is therefore twice as high as in Sweden, where it is 4 pst. The Progress Party believes that a well-developed transport offer is one of the most important factors for society to function. Without a well-developed infrastructure network, it will be impossible for businesses and individuals to establish themselves and live around the country. It is therefore necessary to see the transport network as a whole, in which car, rail, boat and air transport complement each other. In a country such as Norway, with long distances and scattered settlements, a well-developed high-standard road network will be essential for the efficient functioning of business. Therefore, the Progress Party wishes to give the highest priority to investment and maintenance of the road network. The possibility of car use, both for work and recreation purposes, is positive and improves the quality of life of the individual. In competition with rail, the car has superior competitive advantages, such as speed, flexibility and, in particular, economics. The Progress Party is concerned about the evolution of the ever-reduction share of the national budget in the transport sector. In its proposal for a State budget, the Progress Party takes the view that this trend is being reversed and that in the future there will be a focus on the development of the road network. Competition is a healthy tool for getting the best possible product out of minimum money, both because it gives all market players the same opportunities to participate and because it saves taxpayers from unnecessary expenditure. Competition is very suitable in the field of transport. Therefore, the Progress Party wishes to use as much competition as possible. Collective transport services shall be provided by private enterprises according to market economy principles, with real prices and with healthy competition between carriers. In areas where it is not possible to carry out public transport services with profits and where public authorities wish to maintain an offer for special reasons, the offer shall be based on competition between carriers, based on tenders. Although it is expensive to fly in Norway, the entry of new airlines into the Norwegian market has shown that competition on the domestic market works. Prices have been greatly reduced, and route provision is still improving. On the international market, too, the creation of several low-cost companies has forced prices down. The Progress Party wants to maintain a good flight offer around the country, but this offer must be based on competition and be tailored at all times to the real need for air transport. The Progress Party believes that if unprofitable aerodromes are to be maintained, this must be done through State budget appropriations and not through a system where other air passengers have to pay an additional aerodrome fee, as the system is today. Railways are not suitable as an efficient mode of transport in a country such as Norway, where there is a low population density. With regard to the transport of persons, free competition between the various modes of transport should be ensured without any cross-subsidisation. In several areas, the establishment of express bus routes has proved to be a success, and passengers change from travelling by train to bus transport. The background for this is, of course, that new buses are more comfortable, in addition to buses being far more flexible than trains. For the Progress Party, it is illogical to bet on train transport where customers choose to travel by bus. In this year's budget, over DKK 1.5 billion of taxpayers' money is used to buy services from NSB AS. In addition, €4.2 billion is spent on taxpayers’ money to invest in and operate the lines – despite the fact that the ticket price for a bus journey is usually much lower than the same journey by train and in addition goes with profits. Goods shipped by rail are transported to and from the rail wagons by lorry, which represents a significant transport cost. When one knows that the transport routes by train are relatively short, this leads to cheaper road transport. Although freight transport over long distances with today’s subsidisation may be more reasonable for the customer, the subsidy element inherent in the costs of investing and operating the lines must be included. If the funds currently used for the investment and operation of the lines were used for road investment, this would result in significant savings for taxpayers, while competitiveness would be significantly enhanced for industry. Norway has a long coastline with many and long fjords, so the use of a boat to carry both people and goods will be an effective solution. The Progress Party wants full competition for ferry services and that the savings in this respect benefit customers through lower ticket prices. However, competition is also important in the construction and maintenance of the infrastructure. The experience gained after the Road Service Production Department was transformed into Mesta AS shows that costs have been greatly reduced, which has led to more money being spent. With regard to competition and outsourcing, the Workers' Party and the SV have almost a religious relationship with the fact that public employees are not to be exposed to the outrage that competition is apparent. These batches have been opposed to any transformation and efficiency which has occurred in the transport sector. When the Road Service’s manufacturing activity was transformed into Mesta AS, there was no way that this would go wrong — in retrospect most people would say that this has been successful, with great savings. In that process, it was clearly quite ok that the employees of Veigäck or Skanska would have to compete for a job – while those who were State employees would be protected from competition. We see the exact same thing now when the railway works are transformed – everything is wrong, safety is getting worse, working conditions are getting worse, yes, that's not the thing that gets better. In all cases where conversion and outsourcing take place, the Workers' Party and SV call for security to be released. If the Norwegian airlines had been state companies and the Progress Party had proposed conversion or competition, I can imagine that we had heard about the safety risks to which we had exposed the passengers. Now all the airlines are private limited liability companies in full competition, and there is probably not one area where security is as well maintained as in the aviation industry. And what do they themselves say? I want to make a quote from the last issue of the SAS Braatens magazine «On Norwegian Wings». There, CEO Petter Jansen writes the following: ‘We experience a day-to-day life that is highly competitive, and that is good. Competition is positive for you as a consumer, and it is positive for society as a whole. For us as market actors, competition means that we must constantly intensify and deliver our best." I just have to agree with a leader who controls one of the world's safest companies and is responsible for pilots, crew and passengers. I think conversion to more competition for railway maintenance is positive. That doesn't mean I'm satisfied with everything. I mean, among other things, as I also did when converting to Mesta AS, that it is madness to pay fully employed people to go home and raise their wages when they need to build the country. Therefore, more money should have been allocated to the civil engineering sector, so that those who became unemployed at the railway station had a meaningful job to do. Unfortunately, they must passively raise waiting wages rather than solve transport tasks that should have been solved with greater appropriations. From this point of view, it would be desirable to invest to a far greater extent in the construction and maintenance of the road network, rather than investments in the network and the purchase of services from the NSB or other actors. We see daily problems for users with closed roads due to race or tunnels being closed because they are not intended for today's heavy transport. The Progress Party will therefore invest in road maintenance and increase it by 1,280 million. kr. Furthermore, we are proposing to increase the appropriation for road investment by SEK 4.8 billion. The progress is known as against toll collection. That is why, in our alternative budget, we propose spending NOK 2.9 billion, so that no one is going to pay to pass a toll station. This will happen by optically reading the number of passages, and then the state pays the money directly to the bomb company. In many areas, ferry transport is essential for an export-oriented business. Few take-offs result in difficulties for many of these companies to get the products into the market at a timely and fair price. On this basis, the Progress Party has added 100 million. kr, so that several departures can be established. It is also important to replace the old ferry park where several of the ferries are over 40 years old. It is therefore necessary to require that new calls for tenders be made in order to renew the fleet of ferries. Much of the county road network in Norway still does not have permanent coverage. Now I am aware that the county roads are a county responsibility and not a state responsibility, but it helps the companies that depend on the roads, very little. The Progress Party has therefore proposed, in its alternative proposal, the introduction of a 200 million gravel road package. kr, so that work can be started to cover all roads, especially where business depends on the use of roads. Norway, as a country with long distances and scattered settlements, should, in order to offset the disadvantages of lying far away from markets, have a better-developed road network than other countries. Unfortunately, the opposite is true. Norway is far from most European countries. Road appropriations have actually fallen, while traffic growth has been strong and accident rates negative. For the Progress Party, it is obvious that there is a clear link between less money for road use on the one hand and increased traffic and several accidents on the other. Therefore, the Progress Party wishes to support the development of the road network and improve its maintenance. This will lead to fewer accidents and a more profitable business life, especially for businesses and the population of District Norway. The Progress Party is concerned that an increasing proportion of investment funds in the road sector are being financed by tolls. In 1994, tolls amounted to 18.6 p.m. of the total investments in the national road network, with more than 33 pst in 2004. The increasing use of tolls, which is in fact an additional charge for the driver list, strongly opposes the Progress Party. The budget follows the trend of the previous year, where the transport sector has experienced a decline, with the result that the necessary maintenance is not carried out, start-up installations are operated rationally and new installations are not started. The consequence of such a policy is that there are now several employees in the construction industry who are either ‘on a idle basis’ or are unemployed. The Progress Party wants to put these into action so that the country can be further built. Fortunately, the Progress Party and the government parties reached agreement on the budget, which led to 350 million. kr extra, almost twice what the Workers' Party achieved last year. Although this is far more than what the Workers' Party achieved last year, it is unfortunately far too little to solve problems that have to come in order for us to get back behind them, but it is a step in the right direction. We are especially pleased that the Jondal tunnel now seems to be becoming a fact. A stronger bet on the road can only come if the voters say clearly whether that is what they want, which I hope the voters will do in the next elections. Finally, I would like to clarify something that should, of course, be in the budget, but which unfortunately has fallen out. This concerns the rate increase on the Jären package, from 10 kroner to 13 kroner. Let it be clear that the Progress Party is opposed to any increase in tariffs, which is also reflected in our alternative budget, where we move from toll collection to optical reading where the state pays the costs. I am addressing here the proposals that we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e338	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e343	That the Progress Party is a party that is not particularly concerned with the railways is not a big surprise. We have been shown that from this pulpit to the full. But that the Progress Party can be with the Government on the launch of competition and risk the safety of the railway, it's too late. The party of progress claims to be the party of most people. Then I would like to ask the representative Svendsen from the Progress Party: how can it be that the party for people most, now with the Government, sends a thousand people into Christmas with a clear message that their competence is not worth anything, and lets them face an uncertain future? I guess that's not the way a party can be known to most people, is it? Does not the party representative see any danger signals with what is about to take place today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e350	Let it be clear: most people are driving cars, not trains, and then we want to bet on the road sector. For this reason, we have made significant contributions to improving road safety, so that business and the population are brought to the fore as easily as possible. Now that the railway works are being transformed, it is clear that there are some challenges, especially on the safety side. But then we have a railway supervision to make these assessments. It is very difficult for laymen, among others. for me, to take a concrete position on safety measures on the railways – that is why we have a railway oversight. We have a railway station that has to prepare this, and an inspection that has to approve this subsequently. Then I think we're finally going to end up with a safe transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e357	In today's debate, there has been a great deal of talk about this by promising things, planning things, versus doing things. Our government has done things. We have followed up the Sem Declaration when it concerns what we promised to aircraft, we have done it when it concerns national roads, and we have done it when it concerns public transport. Let it be perfectly clear. But then there's been a lot of talk about future promises. It should be a major railway effort, it has been said, among other things. from the Workers' Party. It's gotten a little quiet about this lately. There should be a multiple here for such a bet, but when one sees the alternative budget of the Progress Party, and when one hears the representative Kenneth Svendsen among others. say that the railway is a little suitable form of transport in Norway, then I wonder where the multiples are going. It is an honest point of view, but it is still made by the great number of the major railway effort, for example. The working party and SV have boasted this? That's my question to the representative Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e364	The Party shall promote its primary positions in elections. We've always done that, and so do we this year. But then today we are going to vote in favour of a transport budget that is not our primary proposal, it is our subsidiary. That means that that's what gives the second best result, and that's what we've been working with the Workers' Party. If it comes to a situation where the Workers' Party provides more money – and an ultimatum is more money for the railways as well – we will support this, because the need for investment is so great that this needs to be done. Otherwise, I was not satisfied with the previous line from the representative, who then invited us to become a supporting party to the Government in the next round. We had hoped that he had invited us into the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e373	This small exchange of lines between the Right and the Advance Party has made it quite clear that if there is to be a great deal on the railway, there must be another majority after the next elections. The progress party kutter ca. $2 billion to the railway in its alternative budget, and $400 million. of which, rail investments. I have to say that even the representatives of the Progress Party – at least locally, but also in this Chamber – have supported many of these. I wonder where to take the cuts. Shouldn't we have remote control on the Nordlandsbanen, should we not have double tracks for Asker, or should we not have GSM-R? I thought the Progress Party was for all this, but if they are, they don't have money for it in their alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e380	The present representative, Sørensen, is really a good proof of the need for more efficiency in the railway works to get more money for important tasks to be done. Therefore, the Progress Party is involved in such an improvement in efficiency. We have, as the representative is very well aware, been involved in ensuring that the GSM-R bet at the railway station has been successful, and we put safety in the high-seat. So, of course, in terms of the modes of transport that people want to use, with the real costs, you have to make the investments. When you know that almost 50 billion kroner are paid by the drivers in fees to use the roads, then we have to spend more money on the road – and one place you can take the money from is from the railway investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e387	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e390	I have chosen to bring with me a historical document for the debate today. It's out of the NSB, it's the timetable over the foreign trains. It is valid until the new year, and then it goes out, because then it is no longer valid. I've brought it with me because it's historic. I have brought it with me because this year, in December 2004, it will be the last time we have decent foreign connections with trains. There's an incredible amount of interesting reading in such a table. For example, I can. read that if you sit on the train in Oslo in the morning, you can be in Copenhagen at 1 p.m. 15 a.m. and in Hamburg at 3 p.m. 20. Over Christmas we have to spend a day on the same trip. I can read that you can sit on the train in Oslo at 2.30 p.m. 06.30 a.m. and be in Stockholm at 6.30 a.m. 11, or you can sit on the train at 11 o'clock. 07.30 in Oslo and be in Gothenburg at 7.30 p.m. 11:30. I will take care of it as a reminder of the time when we could also drive a foreign train. It's sad that this has become a historical document. But it's a deliberate priority; it's not random that it's become a historical document. This has happened because one has chosen to give a different priority, one has chosen to give priority to other things than the most environmentally friendly means of approach we have, namely the train. The irony of fate is that next year we will celebrate the hundredth anniversary of the Union’s resolution between Norway and Sweden. The first marker will be that we stop driving daily connections to Stockholm. It's a little worth marking. The harvest hundreds of years ago, Norwegian and Swedish politicians had major tasks and difficult problems to solve. They did. In the autumn of 2004, Norwegian and Swedish politicians have not been able to agree to continue the train link between Norway and Sweden. It's almost unbelievable. The government has shown that priorities have been different, and the budget partner Progress Party has strongly proved that priorities have been different. The agreement allowed you to make up 350 million. kr extra for transport purposes. Not one penny went to the railway, everything went to the road. So you have 22 million. kr to make a 7.5-metre-wide road in Fauske centre, it is only possible to maintain at the same time the same number of parking spaces as you have today. However, you do not have the corresponding amount – it is about the same as it would have cost – to maintain a daily, decent train connection to Stockholm. It will be difficult for those who will operate that train connection, if we ever find other actors, to rebuild that market. The railway is the most environmentally friendly means of transport we have. The railway is what it's being put on in the rest of Europe. Therefore, it is also particularly boring that it is the foreign connections it is now going through. A user also generally spends less on investments in the year's budget than he did last year. If we correct for VAT, it'll be spent in this year's budget 160 million. kr less on investments in rail than in the last year's budget. We want it to be used much more, and we see that we're going to get to it, we need a completely different majority after the next election than what we have today. We made a settlement, with a subsidiary vote in the treatment of the national transport plan. It wasn't something we were satisfied with, we wanted to bet more on the railway, but we did it because it was supposed to develop action plans that made it possible to get a lift as quickly as possible if we were to win the elections for the autumn. I'm worried about the small funds that go to the railway station. It is even said from the Railway Agency that there are 200 million missing. kr to be able to start the planning process quickly enough. I think it is up to the Government to follow up the decisions of the Stortinge. I just want to say one thing about the change that is now taking place at the Railway Station. The Chairman of the Committee pointed out that it was three years since a kind of principle decision was taken here in this Chamber, even after a round of the Progress Party. Then I think, if this has been clear for three years, then why haven't the three years used to present a risk analysis, present an impact assessment, which gives an overall assessment of whether this will compromise safety or not? It doesn't exist today, we just get to hear that you have to keep up with it. If we learned one thing from the Asta accident, it was that security depends on the whole of the organization. There is also a need to assess the risks and to assess the impact of large-scale interventions. I think it's sad that the government hasn't done it. We will vote against the reorganisation that is taking place. So I'd like to say a few words about other points in the budget. It boasts from the Government violently by this great effort on the reward scheme for public transport. Yes, it is increased by approx. Thirty million. NOK 85 to 116 million. kr. It's, with respect to reporting, not a very large amount, and it's enough too little for it to function as a real incentive, a real reward, in those cities where this is relevant. Take, for example: Oslo, who tries to be a city where public transport is to be the backbone of the transport system. There, at the base of a billion dollars a year, is spent on the operation of public transport. A share of the reward scheme of 20 to 30 million. kr can hardly be called an incentive in this context. We propose to increase this pot vigorously, because Norwegian cities have earned far better public transport than they do today. We also lack measures to get more of the goods on the keel. We see that there is a difficult charging and charging situation, not least related to security. Together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, we have proposed a review of the structure of fees and charges in order to promote the transition of goods to the keel. I register that the Progress Party will not be involved, which I think is a bit strange. I am pleased that we have a majority of comments related to the concern many of us have regarding race and racial protection, especially after what we have seen in the West this autumn. We are facing climate change, our researchers tell us, which means that these areas will become more at risk. Regional climate models tell us that it will calculate 20 pst. more in the West. For some people it might not sound so dramatic, but it is, 20 pst. more water is very dramatic. That means we'll have race in places where there hasn't been race before. We need more research to be able to figure out where we're going to put the effort to be involved and prevent what we're now seeing is about to happen. I am also pleased that a majority of the Committee supports the commitment to biofuels, and also that we should facilitate the increased introduction of more environmentally friendly cars, such as the hybrid car. It's important that we try to bring down the emissions from the car traffic that all the batches in the hall realize that we have to have in Norway too. It is not that we should be environmentally friendly in the cities and drive collectively, and then you should drive with the worst possible polluting cars in the village. We're also going to help develop technologies that allow us to operate a more environmentally friendly transport in District Norway. In the end, I am glad that the government says that they have started work on increasing equality in the transport sector, and that they describe this work in their report on the state budget. I couldn't get away from throwing a sloppy look at diplomatism today, and I might have to say that there's a strong need to get more women represented in the transport sector in the future. I would like to address the suggestions that we have with others about, which have been included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e422	The representative Heidi Sørensen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e427	First, I would like to say that I am pleased with the joint comments made by the SV and the Labour Party in this draft budget. It shows that we are trying to approach each other in important areas of the transport sector. But I'm still in the situation that I don't stop wondering that SV seems to think that the main challenges in terms of transportation are on bicycle paths and public transport alone. As a result of this focussing, Oslo-representative Sørensen takes 250 million. kr from road projects around Oslo which are intended to finance various bicycle stipulations and roads in the countryside, rather than to solve what is part of the transport task in the Oslo area. My specific question is: can the transport problem in the Oslo area only be solved by bicycle path and public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e435	I thank the Oslo representative Frönn for the question, and as he well knows, cycling can be the answer to an incredible number of questions in Oslo. We as bikes in Oslo, we know that we need every penny for bike paths, and so we're also increasing the pot for investments on bicycle paths in our budget. After all, it's all the only means of emergence that makes you improve the environment and health, and then you get prettier as well. Of course, we also need railway bets around the big cities. We need the trick, and we need the T-course. Then we believe that when we're going to give priority to bikes, and we get priority trams, lanes and trains around the big cities, and then we get along. Then I also think that we get better access to the road network we have. And then we get to make sure that the cars that have to drive emit as little pollution as possible, so that the air in this city, and in other cities, gets better than the one we breathe into today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e445	SV is the only opposition party that currently prioritises means of transport within the Storting framework. In this respect, it is affordable, but there are repriorities from road to road in the half-billion-dollar class – several hundred million in road cuts, which SV will be alone here today. The question becomes whether this is a profile that SV wants to be alone next year, or whether it is a profile to leave. According to the suspension in connection with NTP, which has been mentioned in the past today, SV is to be in agreement with the Progress Party in 2006, and they are going in a completely different direction, both in principle and in a subsidiary way. I would also like to believe that the Progress Party has views on the previous exchange of lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e452	All the lines from the Right today illustrate the fact that we're going to have a railway operation after the election, we have to have a majority that makes the Progress Party and the Right no longer have power in the transport policy. That's what we work for every day, because we have our priorities. Yeah, we think it's the railroad's turn. As the committee leader has so vividly spoken today – he has said that the railway has been neglected for decades. I fully agree with that. Now it's the railroad's turn. That's what we're going to do every day until the election, and then we're going to make sure that those who don't like the railway won't be allowed to have the decisive influence over the railway policy we're going to work for in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e460	The representative Sørensen spent a very long time on his historical document, and the historical document was the train trip to Sweden. If SV does not have other historical documents to refer to, I have to say there is a bad place in the farm. Other actors have already signed up to drive trains to Sweden. On the Gjövik track we are to have a tender. A total of seven operators have signed up to drive. Why would SV then throw money at NSB and Linx? Will they not also try to improve efficiency, make others run more reasonably, so that the money can be used better within both the NSB and the railway works? That is what the Progress Party stands for, and that is why we want this competitive edge today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e467	I brought with me this historical document because the only thing that's historic about today's debate is that we're no longer going to have daily trains to Sweden from next year. Let me say that nothing would please me more than if someone came to run. But all those who have a little bit of care about supply and demand, and all those who have tried to set up some other offer sometime, know that if you first put down public traffic and leave it down for a while, it costs twice as much and is twice as hard to build the same traffic again. The proposal that the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and we agree on is that we should buy services for the train section to Stockholm, so that we ensure continuous operation before we reach a lasting offer. What the Progress Party is doing today is actually making it more difficult for private actors to get to grips with the train to Stockholm – and it amazes me.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e476	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e479	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the Sem Declaration's objective of an increase in public transport between DKK 1.5 billion and NOK 2 billion has been achieved over the four-year period. Total appropriations have increased by around DKK 4 billion in the years 2002–2005. The government is committed to spending the next year close to NOK 9.4 billion on public transport measures. That's an increase of 225 million. kr from a record high level in 2004, when public transport received a raise of almost DKK 1 billion. A positive measure proposed by the Government, for which we have had an impact in Stortinget, is 115 million. kr to the reward scheme for better public transport and less car use in the five largest cities. Collective transport shows growth in the number of passengers and reduced fares for all major cities. The NSB, the Flytrain and the express bus companies also show good traffic figures. In the case of appropriations for railway purposes, the Christian People's Party will stress that during this great period the government has granted more than any government before us, except for the extraordinary expansion of the Gardermoban. The budget for next year is about DKK 5.8 billion. These appropriations shall be used for railway investment, inter alia: used for double-track Sandvika-Asker, which can be completed in 2005, and the development of a safer train radio, GSM-R, continues. In addition, a number of projects will be launched. The means of operation and maintenance on the railway are increasing by 7.7 pst, resulting in more operationally secure train lines and reliable traffic. A total of NOK 1.5 billion is used for the purchase of passenger transport services by train, an increase of 6.1 pst. compared to 2004. Night trains are also secured for 2005. Forty million. kr is used for measures to improve accessibility for the disabled. Road investment over the period 2002-2005 has been reinforced by more than DKK 1 billion compared to the National Transport Plan proposed by the Workers' Party. The OPS projects included are the Sem declaration’s objective for road investment by road. The Government's parties allocate DKr 13.1 billion for road transport purposes in the 2005 budget. These funds allow the launch in 2005 of a total of ten new, large-scale projects. In addition, it facilitates the launch of about 15 smaller projects. The investment budget prioritises the rational development of projects already under way and gives high priority to projects leading to safer traffic, removing bottlenecks and improving business performance and road safety. We grant approx. half a billion kroner for road safety and over 300 million euros. kr to walking and cycling routes. The Christian People's Party will underline the important work carried out on racial protection. In the 2005 budget agreement with the Progress Party on the budget, we agreed to give further priority to new racial protection projects, which are very important. Now we're going to have a total of 490 million. kr on average for racial protection each year in the current ageing period – this represents an increase of more than 30 pst. in relation to the previous ageing period – this is because we believe that the race hazard poses a major security problem in many places in the country. For operations and maintenance, the total appropriations for the period 2002 to 2005 are larger than those adopted in the Action Plan for the current NTP. Let me also express satisfaction with the fact that the Christian People's Party has finally gained an impact on its commitment to the City Tunnel. The strong local commitment to this tunnel and the hard work of rapporteur Jan Helgøy in the head are now producing results. Let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see. kr for further work by the Swedish Coast Guard Agency on the City Tunnel with a view to clarifying the basis for the procurement. This work must provide technical and economic plans which may form the basis for deciding on the further work on the tunnel project. The Christian People's Party will state that we assume that the Oslo port still has to be a container port. But insofar as Oslo port is unable to meet the needs that exist, alternative ports need to be upgraded. From this point of view, we have emphasised in our remarks in the vote that any capacity problems in Oslo port should be dealt with by the ports of Drammen and Borg. Borg Havn should therefore be given the opportunity to have natural development with Oslo Port in order to obtain more goods from road to sea. In the case of the Mosse tunnel, the Christian People's Party is concerned that the new, up-to-date economic and technical calculations of Option 2B in Moss are being actively developed. In this way, this build-up may be adapted to this NTP period. I would also like to express my joy at the fact that Smoking Civil Airport will finally get traffic. It is a necessary decision for a densely populated country with a highly export-oriented industry. Eastfold is thus linked to Aviation Norway. This is the last budgetary procedure in this period, and during the period a lot of work has been done in the form of road development in Eastfold. Eastfold roads are on the map. The need to repair E6 in Eastfold is great. The accidents have been many and ugly. The range is among the most congested in Norway. Both passenger and freight traffic is extensive. E6 in Eastfold was called the Way of Death because so many were killed or injured in accidents on this road. We are already seeing that the number of accidents and deaths is greatly reduced in those parts of E6 in Eastfold that are open. In 2005, we will open the new Swine Sun Bridge, a bridge that is an important hub between Norway and Europe. The whole of E6 through Østfold is planned to be completed in 2008, something we are pleased about. On the E18 the first couple at Ashim has started. The work at E18 in Eastfold did not stop in 2004. New parsell Momarken–Seckelsten opens in 2005. Of course, I am very happy that we got 25 million in place. kr for the start of this parcel in the agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party. In addition, we have been told that excess funds from ongoing works at Ashim can be transferred to the new parcel from Momarken to Sekelstein. This means that approx. 50 million. kr go to this parcel in 2005. The Christian People's Party is very pleased with this effort. Under this government, the transport sector has developed better and safer access to both road and rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e527	In my nearly eight years in the Committee on Transport, I have experienced two aspects of the Christian People's Party's railway policy. In the previous period, they gave optimistic and positive publicity and signal about the importance of the railway. Now it sounds more like the majority of people think of it as having a suction pipe in the treasury, so the railway must also be privatized. We're going to have more railway for the money. Does the Christian People's Party think that private will give us more railway for the money? Or will it be that those who are at the Railway Station today are paid to stop? Privates have to do the job, and we have to have a bureaucracy that grows, in order to calculate the supply and control – that is, we get a pay that is two to three times larger. Does the Christian People's Party mean that we get more railways for this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e536	I can assure the representative that for the Christian People's Party it is very important to continue to have an active and efficient rail service. But we have to realize that there's a need, as a majority now suggests, to get more for the money that's being put into this service as well. From this point of view, it is clear that the reform that is being adopted here today is part of making this a truth, namely that we are getting more money back in terms of the railways. So the Christian People's Party fully prioritizes the railway. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e542	The representative Holten mentioned some sections of the track that would receive investment funds next year, it was Sandvika-Asker. He mentioned GSM-R. It's also about freight terminal at Ganddal. We know there's going to be remote control on the Nordlandsbahn. Then he said that in addition, a number of other projects should be started. Then I was sitting as a big question mark: which projects are there, and why aren't these mentioned in the proposition? Then I would like to ask a question to the representative Holten – who also represents a state bordering on Sweden, and which you would think was particularly concerned that we should have good foreign relations. Does he think it's okay that we stop driving daily trains to Stockholm 100 years after the Union's dissolution?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e549	I can assure you that I live in an area of cross-border interests. In this regard, it is clear that I fully agree with the representative Nistad in his post, that we are now pleased to note that it is actually the company that is interested in coming in and helping to maintain and further develop an offer not only to Stockholm, but also to Copenhagen. I think that the offer we can get there will help meet the needs for train services between Oslo and the rest of the world in a satisfactory way. In the case of other installations, these are general statements. There are many small installations in the railway sector that could also be taken in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e556	The Christian People's Party has been involved in this period on a major competitive footing in transport. This deserves the approval of the Christian People's Party. Another of the heart issues of the Progress Party, as well as the outsourcing of competition, is road construction. Here, too, Christian People's Party has been good proponents and support players, especially in connection with the acceleration of E6 from Oslo through Eastfold to Svinesund. In the budget agreement, we were given the opportunity to investigate several OPS projects. A couple that is especially on my heart are E6 from Gardermoen on to Otta and the extension of E18 Oslo to Sweden. Will the Christian People's Party and the representative of Holten be equally constructive in upgrading these important highways in Norway, as they were in connection with E6 through Eastfold?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e565	In terms of outsourcing, we're in a process. We have implemented some measures, and there will be further decisions in that matter today. There is no doubt that this is a result that we recognize that for each of the heads we invest for different purposes, we need to have more back. As far as road development is concerned, it is also quite clear that what we have now started up with in the case of OPS projects is positive. But before we go on with further new projects, at least we want to gain experience from those already started, so that we don't do anything that might not have the effect that we're after. But we want to test the matter, and then we get back.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e572	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e575	The most positive thing that can be said about the 2005 CAP budget is that it is a budget on a regular basis. That's the expression that a lot of people have used about this budget. If we go into the budget, we see that it is far from being called an offensive budget. Since this is the last year of the four-year period, we can state that this government will end the four-year period with a lag relative to NTP 2001–2011. It applies to both road and track. This is a small positive signal to the Norwegian business community, which has clearly said that increasing trade bets is one of the most important, perhaps the most important, measures. Increased commitment to culture is crucial for good and living societies throughout the country, also to keep up with and further develop the value creation that is taking place in the districts. Good and safe infrastructure is crucial and important to maintain the quality of life of individuals. The centre party has often pointed out that many natural resources exist in the districts and that much of the value creation takes place there. Therefore, we just have to state that we should be able to use the entire country and take advantage of the benefits we have with the large natural resources, we need to secure a well-developed country. In recent years, there has been a strong focus on the tribal roads and corridors throughout the country. This is important, but we don't have to deprioritize other national roads. The centre party has therefore invested more funds for other national roads in its alternative budget. With few exceptions, the Centerpartie left the county to allocate funds to specific projects. Once again, we have been reminded of the great danger of race to which large parts of the country are exposed. In the fall it was mainly in Sogn and Fjordane and in Møre and Romsdal we got the many and great race. That crash where we know it often, preferably annually, goes race. But this time we had the hope that many other places would also crash. This is a strong reminder that racial protection must be an important area of social policy. This time one person died, but it was only luck that not many more lost their lives. Such events do something to those who happen directly or indirectly. Only those who live in razed areas can fully understand what it is like to live year after year with such insecurity. It's the forces of nature that cause us to have this situation. For this reason, many people get upset when central politicians look at investment in racial protection against the construction of four-field roads, the construction of midpoints and other roadside improvements elsewhere in the country. In one of the richest countries in the world, we have to afford both. The center part thinks it should be more focused on racial protection, and has therefore added 200 million. kr. extra to it. Where nature and natural forces cause problems, we need to put extra effort into making the situation safer. In the budget proposal, the Government states that national road ferries are to be seen as an integral part of the state road network. Depending on the ferries, the ferries are experienced as being on a column running path, and on many distances, the ferries are night-linked. It is important, therefore, that there is a high frequency of ferry services and that night trips are available on the most possible distances. Capacity is another keyword that determines whether the ferry connection should be capable of being good enough. Since being dependent on ferries is an extra cost for real estate and business in holiday areas, it is decisive that the cost of tickets is also reduced. Norway should receive free ferries in the long term, as Sweden and Finland have. For the railways, too, there are the great lifts in the 2005 budget. We know that for the railways, too, there is a huge lag in investment and maintenance. The post office for the purchase of services from the NSB has an addition. This is a small point of light in next year's budget. From the second half of 2003 there has been an increase in the number of passengers on trains that are covered by state-owned purchases. An increase in the item for the purchase of services may provide room for train availability adaptations in relation to the development of demand. A negative feature in the provision of passenger transport services by train is the closure of daily routes for the train between Oslo and Stockholm from 1 January 2005. Staying up on weekends and in the summer helps a little, but without any doubt the absence of the daily tours will lead to a sharp fall in the number of passengers. Such a big change in supply will make it harder to build up our supply later. So the center part is going to add 25 million. kr as an immediate measure for the purchase of services on this route. This is the sum necessary to maintain daily tours in 2005. The centre party believes that the purchase of passenger services on trains is generally not to be used on international routes, but we regard this as a necessary immediate measure to find a solution in the short term. Unfortunately, there won't be multiples to go in with the purchase of services to keep daily tours as a short-term solution. It makes it even more necessary to intensify work on long-term solutions. It is therefore crucial that the Council of State commits itself strongly to finding good solutions for the future. The most dramatic thing about the railways in the 2005 budget proposal is the restructuring of the Railway Agency’s production unit, as mentioned in Appendix No. 2 to the budget. Following the proposal, all infrastructure-right manufacturing activities of the Railway Agency shall be subject to competitive tendering for the period 2005-2009. This involves extensive restructuring. BaneService, which has been put out for competition, should become AS and compete for all assignments. The operation of the railway undertaking, which has not been subject to competition, shall be severely degraded. Only some maintenance tasks shall remain at the Railway Station. The consequence of this is that almost 1000 are added to the production part. The railway works must therefore be rid of many skilled professionals on the production side, while at the same time strengthening their own competence as builders and purchasers. The conversion costs both for the public and for the unemployed. The government suggests that it should take 35 million. kr of investments in the line to cover the 2005 conversion costs. This thinks the Center Party is unacceptable. Investment permits are low and do not tolerate reduction. When it comes to converting BaneService into AS, I will come back to the matter that is going up in Odelstinget later today. At the same time as budget management, the Committee has also examined Document No. 8:1 for 2004-2005 by Åslaug Haga and myself to stop and carry out an impact assessment before one goes to the step of shutting down traffic stations. From the summer to the summer, many letters, e-mails and telephones have been received from parts of the business community, which are deeply concerned about the consequences of their business if traffic stations are closed. I think it would be right to take this part of business seriously and look at the consequences before changes are made. In a letter from the Ministry and in response to questions from the Committee, there is an indication of the conversion to take place, and that many, yes, in one letter, all services are to be posted online. The Internet may be a good option for many of the services that are available to individuals, for example. applications, form, etc. However, it is far from all the services that business needs that can be resolved in this way – for example, the display of cars. difficult to do online. I have noticed that in the last response to the Committee, the Council of State refers to the organisation and localisation of services in such a way that changes can be easily made when necessary. They should be more mobile because the services are to be performed more extensively where the users are, write the council. If this is implemented, and how this will be done, yes, it says to see. What is stated is that many entrepreneurs are uncertain about the future and ask questions about whether their business is life-created when they have to bear the extra costs when public savings are to be made. Finally, I will say a few words about the dividend policy of this government. Let me take the Post as an example. It has been determined that the dividend from the Item Norge AS should be 30 pst. However, every year in the budget, there are varying proposals for dividends. For 2005, the proposal is almost 75 pst. This creates an uncertain situation for state-owned companies. Only when the budget is presented will the company know the amount of the dividend. When variations are as large as we've seen in recent years, it's hard to deal with them. This applies not only to the Post, but also to other state corporations. It should be assessed, therefore, whether a non-conformity should be more consistent when it comes to dividend policy, so that it becomes more consistent with what has been defined.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e620	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e623	Now, the Labour Party and the Center Party are agreed on most of this setting, as we have been particularly concerned with structural issues during this period. It concerns the act of limited liability companies, the postponement of competition and privatisation. Today, BaneService, which is to become a limited liability company, Kastverket Produktion, is to become a limited liability company, and the launching and privatisation of the Railway Agency Operation. I'm happy for this deal. In addition, we, together with the Senterpartiet and SV, say that we are opposed to the liberalisation of the taxi industry. What is different for the Workers' Party and the Center Party is what the representative mentions last, not how we look at money for conversion and exchange, but when it comes to Mostly's conversion to a limited company, we have put back the 100 million. kr plural part has been taken away. It doesn't have the Center Party. Neither have they done so when it comes to exchange in the Post, so the Central Party is involved in an exchange in the Post of 74 pst. I would like a comment from the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e630	It is quite right that the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt stated that the Central Party and the Labour Party are united on many of the important structural issues within the sphere of social policy. This can be seen in the settings we have presented and which we are dealing with now, and it has been the same in previous settings. So to Most and the conversion funds that the Workers' Party has put back into the budget: the Center Party has not, but in our remark we have shown that we view this as a transfer of funds and expect the funds to come. That's why we didn't put them there. When there was a dividend, I was inside of it in my post. We haven't invested funds, we've accepted it for 2005, but it's important that we get a review so that we get a more transparent situation, so that, in a word that's not so good in neuron, it's 'foreseeable' for these companies for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e639	The representative Ringstad was in a field that has not been particularly affected today, and there are traffic stations. We have received a letter from the Council of State that I feel is reassuring, because we were also a little skeptical after receiving some letters from business. That letter specifies that there should be an ambulance service for checking imported cars which do not have type-approval, that service centres should be set up around the municipalities and that offers should not be closed until alternative offers are established. It sounds to me like a much better offer than today. You get the users closer where they are, and you get the users between the different traffic stations in a better way. Is not the representative of Ringstad concerned with reaching users as close as possible to where they live?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e644	During the summer and autumn, I noticed that very many of the Progress Party's local politicians, but also Kenneth Svendsen, were out there and were very sceptical of the change that was to happen when it came to the traffic stations. Ambulance service was mentioned in a letter from the government council, it was also said that one could add services to the service centre, but the state does not create a service centre around it, so that it must be the municipalities that create these centres, and that one can place some services there. But I've been talking to more people in the business world who are concerned about this issue, and they're not happy that this might be an ambulatory service, because they don't know anything. No closer information has been given on how this should work. It is also not stated that there is a service centre all over the place, so that services can be placed there. That is why I said in my post that whether it is implemented and how it is done is still a big question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e656	SV has proposed the creation of a new entry on the road transport budget, earmarked support for upgrading the county road network, an incentive scheme to enable county municipalities to upgrade the county road network faster than they can do today, and we propose a five-year plan for upgrading county roads. This will benefit the districts and, in particular, facilitate business development in the districts, as the county roads constitute significant bottlenecks. It surprises me that the central party could not support this proposal, and the question to Ringstad is: Does the central party not see that it will be very good district policy to facilitate the rapid upgrading of the county road network?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e661	At the back of the budget proposal, we have an overview of the situation of the county roads around all the counties in the country. We have also received this in previous budget proposals. It is clear that some states have made considerable efforts on the county roads, others have not been given the same lift. This is a responsibility for the county councils, and I believe that what SV and the Progress Party have presented is a gravel road package – it is not a matter of upgrading the entire county road network, but of upgrading the gravel roads, i.e. a gravel road package. This means that the states that have given priority to a little different and perhaps deprioritised other tasks and set priorities on the county roads, they should not be given these resources because they have done the job themselves. If you want to prioritize and introduce those who have not done the job before, I think it will be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e666	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e669	The left and co-operation administrations have given priority to the environment and security in transport policy throughout this major period. A strong stepping up of public transport efforts, the development of safe train radio communications, racial and road safety measures on the road network are examples of this. The government has also prioritised a faster and more coherent development of the tribal road network in all parts of the country and a forced expansion of four-field motorways. This has a major impact on road safety and improves the promotion of both industry and the general public. Like the budget for previous years, the budget adopted today also includes a strong commitment to public transport. Public transport was given a huge boost in 2004 with a growth of nearly DKK 1 billion. This high level is now further strengthened. Overall, over 9 billion kroner will be spent on public transport in 2005. As the Left State Council, I am particularly pleased with this promise for public transport. The objective of the Sem Declaration of an increase of SEK 1.5 to 2 billion is more than achieved. It is a budget with a significant environmental stamp, a clear left stamp and a stamp from this government. Figures from the first quarter of 2004 show that this strong investment in public transport results. There is growth in the number of travellers and/or reduced fares for all major cities. The NSB, the Aerodrome and the express buses may also refer to a significant passenger increase. In view of these positive results, the reward scheme for better public transport in metropolitan areas increases by more than 50 pst. In the road budget, significant funding has been provided for collective fields, terminals, holding sites, signal priorities and the T-banning in Oslo. But although much good has been done in the field of public transport, there is no need to stop here. The left and the government will continue the job to make public transport even better. The railway budget has been given a strong boost during this flooding period. It is now spent more than NOK 6 billion a year on the railway, and with the exception of the extraordinary expansion of the Gardermoban, it has never been granted more to the railway than during this government. It is also a solid railway operation for 2005, including, inter alia: the following major projects: the double-track development between Asker and Sandvika will be completed the expansion of GSM-R train radio continues the remote management of the Nordlandsbahn new freight terminal at Ganddal in Rogaland In addition, a number of new projects will be planned: double track extension Sandnes – Stavanger new double track Lysaker – Sandvika Lysaker station double track between Bergen and Fløen The means of improving safety, travel information, labelling and accessibility for all are increasing sharply. It is good that NSB and SJ maintain the train connection between Oslo and Stockholm by direct train on weekends and daily train connections during the summer months, although ideally it would have been desirable to continue daily departures. Together with the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Transport looks at the possibilities of restoring a train connection with daily train departures throughout the year. We also assess the possibilities for new players to enter this market. It is my duty to ensure that we get the most out of the resources and thus a safer and more operationally stable railway and a better rail service for the population. The launch of the railway works’ production activities and the establishment of the Railway Service is important in improving the efficiency of the operation and maintenance of the railway infrastructure. The launch of competition will take place gradually until 2009. It shall be implemented in such a way that safety is at least as good as previously. The State shall continue to own the infrastructure and the Railway Agency shall continue to be responsible for the safety of the Norwegian network. Strengthening the role of the railway undertaking as infrastructure manager. Safety features for inspections, controls and visits of the network shall remain in the Railway Station and we shall have a clear distinction between production and management. The task of the Railway Authority is to monitor and assess the safety consequences of the reform process. The high safety characteristics of the railway shall be maintained. Stem roads are the backbone of the road system. It is therefore important to have a well-developed tribal road network where we see longer distances in the context. Examples are E6 through Østfold to the Swedish border, E18 to Kristiansand and E6 northwards to Lillehammer. Improving the secondary national road network and the ferry service is important to strengthen living and business throughout the country. Proposed changes within the road and vehicle areas, inter alia: traffic stations are a follow-up to the adopted reorganisation of the State Road Service. Efficiency provides better and more decentralised services to users. These measures include: the release of personnel for other and more priority tasks, such as: control tasks on the roads. Overall, the population will be offered at least as well as today. I propose that the transfer of the Air Safety Authority to Bodø should take place with the minimum possible interruption of the oversight activities. The high level of safety in Norwegian aviation shall be maintained and further developed during the period of relocation. It has proved difficult to recruit and retain the necessary competences in the Air Safety Authority, as is well known. Measures to prevent the departure of personnel and to strengthen the recruitment of supervision during the period of relocation will be assessed. Transport accounts for one quarter of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore positive that the majority of the Committee supports the strong budgetary commitment to alternative fuels and environmentally friendly technologies, including: biofuels, fuel cells and hydrogen. This is more than doubled in 2005. I welcome the support in Stortinget during this four-year period for a transport budget with a clear environmental and collective profile. The budgets have been adopted by a different majority in the Grand Duchy. This year's budget agreement with the Progress Party has ensured that we have guaranteed the Government's priorities without any change, while increasing the appropriations for projects that specifically strengthen racial security and the transport supply in the districts. I would like to commend the Progress Party on their constructive approach to budgetary work. Societal development also requires changes in the field of transport. I am committed to being in the forefront and implementing the necessary reforms, so that we get more for the means of transport and better transport for the citizens. At the same time, safety must be at the root of everything we do, so that it is safe to travel on our roads, at sea and for those who choose to take planes or use the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e735	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e738	Left stamp - as much as possible and as far as possible privatisation against those who add their advice and wishes! I want to confront the Council of State with Sunday newspaper. There the council said that the transformation of the Railway Agency Operation was to get rid of the camaraderie and get control of the security. Is this the argument for the transformation, or is it what the proposition says? When the transformation of the operating organisation e.g. is a ground for cleaning in roles, as stated in the proposal, why is it not possible for the Railway Works to become an AS which can compete as other companies do, e.g. Mesta AS? What Is It? Is it this camaraderie that you're going to split up once and for all, and then you're going to tell people up and send them out to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e745	I have given a strong expression that the concept of camaraderie I am not standing by. It was put in my mouth in that interview, and I should have said there and there that I am taking my distance from it. Then I must also say that I am a little surprised by the harsh criticism that comes here from the representative Ausdal Starrfelt. I registered not so long ago that this representative would propose that the whole railway company be established as a company. I also read in the budget position that ‘this policy’ — where reference is made to this type of corporate formation — ‘contributes to weakened popular governance and increased market-oriented governance’. We chose not to go that far. We think it is very important that the state has a responsibility for the infrastructure on the railways. I don't want to go for the privatisation of the infrastructure, and I don't want to be part of the concept that we are ‘privatizing’ the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e752	I would first of all like to say that I am glad that the Advance Party programme has become several pages slimmer during this period and in the previous one. The council and her staff are to be commended for having done a formidable job of transforming heavy public authorities. Now they've put Telenor out of competition. The item is almost completely competitive. Ferry will be. Bus will be. It's about the Road Service. Air traffic has gained competition in the air. The NSB is about to start with tenders, and we've got a lot on Gjøvikbanen. And now the railway station is going. So we're satisfied that large parts of our program can now only be torn out, because they're completed. Then I want to ask the Council of State, who has done this good job – and then I guess she will continue – but there are still some smaller areas that you need to put off competition: Will the Council of State continue in the good crowd she is in now?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e759	When we choose to use more outsourcing, we do what we see is a gain to pick up. If these are areas we have not yet come so far, it is either because there are assessments that should be made, or because time has not so far been involved. I am concerned that when we first choose that, there should be a reason for that. I don't have a philosophy that we're going to compete for the outsourcing, but to the extent that it's a win to pick up, we do. Not least, as politicians, we have a responsibility for the money we manage on behalf of all the inhabitants of this country. That means we have to always ask ourselves if we're managing this money properly. That is what we believe we are doing now by presenting this proposal relating to the outsourcing of tasks within the railway system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e766	The Government's proposal for the competitive outsourcing of the operation and maintenance of the railway has been presented in violation of the Railway Agency. They have stated that this goes far beyond what they can do well and have proposed, and it is proposed in violation of railway employees who are going to strike today. The Railway Authority has also failed to deal with the matter and cannot accept that the proposal can be implemented. On 18 December 2003, this was discussed in Stortinget. Then the state councils stated: ‘That is why I also want to continue to listen to what the Railway Agency, both management and employees, believe’... ‘In this work, as I have said before, the employees will also be involved, because I think they have important input’. My question to the Council of State is: How has she involved the Railway Agency and its staff in the preparation of the proposal, as she guaranteed in the United Kingdom on 18 December 2003? And: The Railway Inspectorate told the Newspaper yesterday that they cannot guarantee that the proposal can be implemented, either on a scale or in time. The question is: can the Council of State guarantee that the proposal currently presented can be implemented both on a scale and in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e780	Let me start with the last question first. The fact that we have State Railway Authority that can monitor that we're doing this right and that we're taking safety into account is important. That's an important premise for what we're doing. That's why we've now set out a plan for what to do. The Railway Agency and the Ministry shall jointly establish a more concrete plan for further action. In this work it is important to carry out a safety analysis. In relation to whether I have listened to the Railway Agency, let me quote what I and railway director Steinar Killi among others. talked about yesterday: ‘The railway is and shall be a very safe means of emergence. The launching of the railway works’ production activities shall not impair railway safety’.» We fully agree on that. ‘The Government’s proposal will impose strict requirements on written documentation, which in isolation will improve safety in the railway sector.’ We agree on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e796	Not long ago we had an interpellation debate about ferries here in the hall. In that debate, the Council of State stressed that the sum for the purchase of ferry services had increased sharply. However, as the Council of State also stated in the inter-pelling debate, much of the increase has gone to meet new demands on security and other things that are more on the administrative side, and corrections. It has not been the large volume of production in the ferry itself. This year's budget agreement has given concrete improvements to some sections, which are positive. But my question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State satisfied with the efforts that have been made in the ferry sector? Then there might also be reason to add that we have a very high average age ferry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e803	As it was said, in that interpellation, I referred to the solid state investment with contributions to the purchase of ferry services that have taken place in recent years, without necessarily increasing the services. That's absolutely right. The reason why we have chosen to go so badly on the part of the state is that it is the community that bears mainly the costs associated with more stringent safety requirements. That's what we've been saying for the sake of the people who live around the country. I would like to say that this is a solid commitment on the part of the state. I am pleased that there has become room for even more investment in ferries through this budgetary agreement here on the Stortinget. But I would also like to stress that the state contributes significantly in relation to ferries. It's important from the geography we have here in this country. The State and the Community have incurred costs relating to higher standard requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e808	I'm glad the Council of State is taking a distance from claims of camaraderie. I listened to that program, and she answered yes, after even talking about friends controlling each other. So it wasn't entirely unimaginable. The working party believes in an administrative model of the Railway Agency, possibly a state enterprise. So we're actually trying to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We say that we are, in principle, opposed to this postponement of competition and privatisation. It's e.g. quite uncertain whether there is a market, or whether one can establish itself in the market in this field, or whether what we are doing, only leads to a confusion of competence. When the majority wants to put off competition, we ask: why can’t those working at the Railway Works Administration not be competing? Actually, they already do, to a very limited extent, but it's supposed to end. What makes the Council of State not confident that those who work at the Railway Agency Operation can participate in and compete for the assignment, when she now wants to clear up the roles?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e817	This distinction between the roles of those performing the job and those to be controlled is precisely a matter of distinguishing between the roles of those performing the job. It is at the bottom of the interview that has been given and that has been quoted from here several times. What this is all about is that we have a railway station that is responsible for managing the infrastructure. We have a very positive experience from the roadside in introducing this distinction. To the question of why not the employees of the Railway Works Agency can be allowed to participate in the competition: if they go to BaneService or other businesses that are in the competition, it is entirely free and up to them to participate in it. But as such, the Railway Agency will be an administrative unit that cannot participate in the competition on the tasks to be performed here, as we will again have some problems separating the control tasks from the exercise role.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e824	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e827	In today’s budget debate on social affairs, the following Bible quotations can be used: It is complete. This government, with the support of the Progress Party, will in the current ageing period have multiples to launch and privatise all parts of the infrastructure. Today, the Coastal Station and the Railway Station broke down. Back we're in the Working Party almost said with a horrible lump in our stomachs. What are we getting? What are we going to get? And who does that go down? We are beginning to see the results: in the Road Directorate, they need to add more bureaucrats to facilitate supply and more people to control, while providing people with a final package and early retirement. So society spends hundreds of millions of dollars getting rid of the workforce, and it doesn't waste the permits. This is probably the government's way of spending taxpayers' money and the government's way of practicing an inclusive working life. Get it, whoever wants it. In the future, when it comes to the Railway Agency, they will not be allowed to compete. Governments don't trust the competent people she talked about on the radio on Sunday. On the contrary, government councils are talking about the environment covering the reporting back to the rental and that the ministry does not have the full picture. The Labour Party, of course, supports the Council of State that we need to change all the time. The Railway Agency has also done so – not at express speed, precisely because of the competence of the small professional community we have there and because they have to take care of the security. Now a Christmas gift of 1,000 is added to the Railway Agency: we don't need the knowledge and the workforce anymore. Privates may take over, but the Railway Agency shall be responsible. I don't understand how it can give you greater security. Governments estimated the economic gain on the radio at between 6 and 15 p.m., or several hundred million dollars. Governments wouldn't tell you what it would cost to get rid of them – about 400 million. kr is stated in the bill of lading, by the investment budget. Probably it can double the number before the whole process is over, money the railway badly needs for investment and operation. In terms of the railway's 150-year marking, the government has gone out and said that they should invest heavily on the railway, both now this year and in the years to come. However, the action plan for this period is very close, rather the investment plan for which the Government itself gave leadership. So it's not competent and competent people who go around, which is why we don't get enough rail for the money. On the contrary, it is the stream of money that is not at risk. On page 6 of the supplementary proposal, it says that in the future the Railway Agency will not do jobs for others, as they do today. It generates revenues of between 60 and 80 million. kr. Will the Council of State compensate for this loss of income, or will there also be a cut in the operating and maintenance loops? The additional proposal states that the number of trainees in BaneService should be available for take-off at the age of 60. Why is the same offer not applicable to those added to the Railway Works? What is the difference when everyone belongs to the Railway Works? They're all state-affiliated. The working party is genuinely concerned about the future of the railway. We thought it was getting old with all the positive results that the Railway Agency and NSB AS have given us travelers lately. We're in on a good track. If these advertised recalibration rings are not to be released, where will the council take the money from? Is it from the accessibility of the station areas and information to the travellers – the fifth dimension of the NTP – or what is it? Socio-economically, we want to be poorer. If we were to compare it to the same thing, the problem would look different. But there's ideological differences on the right-hand side and on the left-hand side that hit here. It's the right-hand side that believes that private and competition are the only solution, whether it's rational or not. The goal of the sacred means. And with the support of the Progress Party, they will succeed. This is a bad day for everyone who is busy with the railways, both as a public transport operator and as a freight forwarder. It's the pace that worries the most. It is shown to many countries that are happy, both Denmark and Sweden. Yeah, and they've spent a lot of time. But there are many countries that haven't succeeded, and that's the speed at which Norway goes up. Otherwise, both the ECON and the Railway Agency have said that they are willing to look at the crew and reduce it. But in the amount and pace that the Government is now adding, it's going over the stick and the stone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e857	Government parties own a transport project. The government trio is using society as a whole. On the question of the bearer idea is privatisation or public governance, says Right, Christian People's Party and Left: Yes, thank you, both. No one in this country shall let the sun go down on its well-marketed misunderstanding, that the community loses control when the draw lion in the government builds a new Transport Norway. We crush public ownership in terms of infrastructure. We establish indivisible public liability for traffic, for safety and for control. We demand competence for ordering goods and services. From this point of view, the migratory lion reorganizes the often heavy organizations of society. We separate the production departments from the administrative bodies, as we have done, or are in the process of doing, with the Road Administration, the Railways and the Coastal Works. Secondly, we cultivate forms of company that give companies greater freedom of action, administratively and financially. The increased freedom will provide employees with a more inspiring day of work and will challenge increased skills building. For me, it is obvious that organisations that are middle and rule-driven are less interesting to work in than where the work is primarily organised after achieving the goal. That is why we will organise these production companies, Mesta, BaneService and the Coastal Production Agency, as stand-alone state-owned companies. We have done the same conversion measures with Posten, NSB and Avinor. Through the two operations mentioned above, the creation of production companies and the use of the form of limited liability companies, this government has also facilitated competition. It'll benefit the individual. The reorganization has one single objective. It's giving everyone who depends on transport, a first-class, safe and up-to-date offer. Better roads, increased reliability, more departures, higher comfort, less time use and more reasonable prices of our means of communication affect all of us in everyday life. It provides better value creation and safer jobs, shorter working weeks and less worn out – and perhaps a little happier – people. On the broad front, the Government has invested in bus, rail and other rail public transport. The level of reorganization and allocation is greater than in any major period of modern times, and it has shaped the collective transport image in Norway. Only the construction of the Gardermoban exceeds the current level of allocation. Particular attention has been paid to the reorganisation of the Railway Agency, where the production department of BaneService is separated as its own limited liability company. The ownership of the railway is still at the Railway Station. Authority and responsibilities for traffic management and safety remain at the railway station. The ordering competence for the purchase of goods and services requires a greater focus on qualification requirements, standards and specifications with safety aspects. It is therefore natural for safety to increase as a result of this conversion. The philosophy behind the reorganisation is to release inherent growth power and trigger the potential for competence of railway organisations. The restructuring of the railway is part of the process of renewing and improving the efficiency of railway organisations. After this, BaneService has to compete with private companies for contracts. The exemption of companies opens up for innovation and rational business operations. In this way, the limited liability company may be able to develop into a powerful organisation and exploit its strengths. We believe that the interaction between a state-owned limited liability company and private actors will lead to better use of scarce resources – human, economic and ecological. Passengers and others in need of transport services will benefit. We would point out that any conversion costs associated with a new limited liability company, which the Workers' Party has been so involved in this debate, are an essential investment for a competitive and forward-looking railway in Norway. Railway is an important part of the government's environmental policy. The government has made a strong commitment where the railway has natural advantages in terms of passenger base, pollution and area scarcity: around and between the largest cities as well as the triangle Lillehammer, Oslo, Halden and Grenland. Increased competition also promotes a good environment. Competition and reorganisation will bring new dynamism to the railways, make them more interesting and socially profitable and increase the environmental advantage of other means of transport. Organisational dynamics and increased level of funding facilitate the achievement of the Government's objectives of environmentally sound and safe transport. Competition is beneficial for resource use. Contracts should be awarded to those with the best technological, economic and resource management. This is a very good environmental policy. A total of 5,8 billion kroner have been proposed for rail purposes. 760 million must be used. kr on double tracks Sandvika-Asker, and new freight terminal is to be built on Ganddal. Groundwork and design shall be carried out for double-track Sandnes-Stavanger, Bergen-Fløen and Sandvika-Lysaker as well as Lysaker station and modernisation of Alnabru terminal. As we experience a new railway break, there are also exciting times for aviation. We're going to buy 440 million flights. NOK 5,6 pst. The contribution to Avinor’s regional airports is increasing in real terms, by 10 pst. With such large increases, it is profitable and necessary for Avinor to keep to the annual performance improvement target of 400 million. kr from 2006, although management and trustees have agreed to freeze the implementation of certain actions under ‘Take-off-05’ until March 2005. It may not be an objective to further increase the subsidy rate in Norwegian air transport. If Avinor does not succeed in the efficiency improvement measures, it will lead to more expensive or poorer offers to the public. The parties to the ‘Take-off-05’ discussion have a great responsibility to arrive at a solution within the financial framework that the Storting can accept. Norwegian passengers have a fantastic flight offer – a fine branched network of 28 regional airports and 18 regular aerodromes that help to mitigate the distance inconvenience it is to live so far away from large population concentrations. That's how we want it in this long, weird and uneven country. In such a country, with such a unique network of aerodromes, airlines play an important role. Government aviation policy has been a dream of success. When SAS bought Braathens in October 2001, air fares reached their highest level, almost 50 pst. up the page Color Air set. With Norwegian on the market, prices fall by approx. 40 pst. The fall in ticket prices is due to the ban on bonus schemes and effective competition policy. The government will continue to fight against bonus systems nationally and internationally. Exploitation of dominant market power – predatory pricing, wholesale contracts, progressive discounts and indebtedness schemes – contributes to predatory capitalism and weakened consumer power. Users have benefited from competition in the air. This government has shown that it is willing to use strong instruments to achieve this. This government owns a transport project. It's about giving power and money back to the users, organizing the transportation resources so that they are directed towards the first line, away from the back rooms. We want more excavators. We want more trucks and fewer office desks and meetings. Those who provide the most and the best means of communication for the same money get the job. It's economic, it's sustainable, it's environmental policy right. I call that the resource model. Monopoly is the opposite of competition. It promotes indifference and self-satisfaction — and sometimes a burst of power. It's not being challenged, it's not being tested. It does not seem conducive to curiosity, analysis, definition and precision. Like all staunch characters, it has a capacity to put on. Democracy requires more actors. The monopoly has only itself. It is amazing that the supporters of the monopoly are still so high and so many, even in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e895	The Progress Party believes that a well-developed transport offer is one of the most important factors for the good functioning of society. Without a well-developed infrastructure network, it will be impossible for businesses and individuals to establish themselves and live around the country. The budget submitted will in no way achieve such an objective, even if a good increase to the national highways came to an end. The transport network needs to be seen in a complete way, where car, rail, boat and air transport complement each other. In a country such as Norway, with long distances and scattered settlements, a well-developed high-standard road network will be essential for the efficient functioning of business. Therefore, the Progress Party wishes to give the highest priority to investment and maintenance of the road network. The decline in road investment has been further reinforced. In addition, road maintenance has also built up significantly over several years. This is not acceptable. The Progress Party refers to its principal proposal to invest in road maintenance by increasing this allocation by 1,280 million. kr. Furthermore, the Progress Party wants to increase the allocations for road investment by 4 800 million. kr. The Progress Party also wants all funds paid through toll calls to be used for road investment and not for collective solutions and that these funds are used in the areas where they are collected. The progress of the party is primarily on the way. We believe that Norway, which is a country with long distances and scattered settlements, should, in order to offset the disadvantages of lying far from the markets, have a better-developed road network than other countries. Unfortunately, the opposite is true today. Norway is far from most European countries. Road appropriations have fallen in real terms over several years. At the same time, traffic growth has been strong and, unfortunately, the accident rate has been negative. For the Progress Party, there is a clear link between increased traffic and several accidents on the one hand and less money for road use on the other. Where we have invested, such as at the E18 in Westfold and at the E6 in Akershus/Eastfold, there has been a significant reduction in the number of hard damage and killed in traffic. Road sections that have been identified as fatal due to accidents are now the safest roads in the country. This has happened even though the speed limits on these roads have increased from 70 km/h to 100 km/h. It shows that the best way to increase road safety is to build new roads with middle parts. It is regrettable that despite a good increase of 350 million. kr in the budget agreement for next year stands at a total of 600 million. kr remaining in the budget for this year which has not been used. It's amazing – believe it or not – but a total of 600 million. kr is unused, at a time when many employees in the construction industry are idle or unemployed. The Ministry and Vegvesenet are responsible for not having planned or not having projects that they can set in motion. I am absolutely sure that when the three-minute deposits finally arrive here today, most in this room have good knowledge of roads that can be started in their home countries. I would have liked to receive all of these funds for projects in Uppland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e912	All trains in Norway – and Oslo Sporveier – are in the middle of today. 12 o'clock and 12 o'clock 15th Railway users have every reason to stop trains because Norwegian railway policy is in the process of derailment. This is the Christmas gift from the Government of Norwegian Railways: full competitive outsourcing of operation and maintenance of railway infrastructure. 1000 employees must leave their jobs as the railway works operate and maintenance are tendered. SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre are united in rejecting this privatisation. It is mildly justified. What makes SV – yes, the whole opposition – the most serious concern is that this is about basic security. The AST accident in 2000, where 19 people died, shows the importance of prioritising safety. The Asta accident was investigated, and it gave us, among other things, requirements regulation – a regulation requiring analysis in all conversions that may affect road safety, in advance. What kind of documentation has the Government provided to justify such a major change? Organizational is perhaps the most dramatic in the 150-year history of the railway. The government's file is 24 pages. 24 pages shall form the basis for this conversion. That is the basis for decision. The most important thing, a risk assessment of the conversion will have consequences for safety, is missing. Here, as I have said, the government is breaking central regulations of the railway law. This is creating history with negative signs. The railway station's own modernisation plans are covered by a line. They have carried out safety analyses, unlike the Ministry of Transport. At the same time, the Council of State claims that the Railway Agency does not have an overview of safety. A bit of trust in your own organization, your own profession! Is it strange that the conclusions become as they become, and contrary to all international experience? It is Højres Hus that has taken over the management of the Norwegian railway system. Of course, with the support of the Progress Party, this is decided. This is right ideology – privatisation for the sake of privatisation. This is dramatic, because the operation and maintenance of the network is about safety. We fear that the proposed dismantling of the Railway Agency will remove perhaps the most important knowledge in terms of safety, namely local knowledge, which exists only among the Railway Agency's own employees. The Norwegian rail maintenance market is both small and long-term and totally unsuitable for such full-scale experiments. The railway undertaking shall not participate itself in the competition for the maintenance of the network. The operation of the railway station must be removed and the rest of the railway station becomes an administrative apparatus. The consequence of the proposal may be that the Swedish State Railway Agency or other foreign actors will assume responsibility for the operation and maintenance of 4000 km of railway tracks in four parts of the country. Sweden has not built its railway station. That is why at least this proposal is not based on international experience. In the United Kingdom, the railway works took back the privatised maintenance and employees last year, 18 500 maintenance workers. ‘There would have been increasing criticism of privatisation. The maintenance had been ineffective and went at the expense of security," said the chairman of the Network Rail to the BBC. The majority of the population are now in the process of making the same mistake that the British made in the early 1990s. The Spanish railway is being presented as the most cost-effective in Europe. They're in the middle of a $330 billion investment program. In order to relieve their own organisation, some of the tasks have been abandoned to the private sector, and in ten years they have put off 30 pst. There's something quite different than reducing the staff by 80 pst, as the Government will do with the Railway Agency in a short time. And what about the Swedes? The Swedes are investing for 107 billion kroner, and the state Banverket is doing most of the operation and maintenance itself. How, then, can it serve as an example? The Government's proposal is irresponsible in terms of security, and what is proposed is lacking in Europe. It will also have to be stopped if we get a new majority after the 2005 Grand Prix elections. So over to a slightly different area, transportation in the districts. SV is responsible for the environment and rural development of transport policy. SV's alternative proposals for 2005 transport budget follow the same lines as our proposal in the National Transport Plan: increased efforts for public transport in major cities and press areas, increased investment in rail, more goods from road to sea and rail and increased investment in rural transport. Overall, SV proposes an increase of 530 million. kr for transportation in the districts. We're increasing by 120 million. kr. Parts of that amount shall go to the Jondal tunnel and the Namdal project. We're increasing racial protection by 110 million. DKK, gravel pot and county roads of 100 million. kr, 50 million national road ferries. kr and Kastverket – fairways, fishing ports – with 150 million. kr. It is important to reduce distance constraints and link districts and parts of the country closer together to one nation. The roads in large parts of District Norway still have too poor standards. The bottlenecks are numerous and partly narrow, and axle load limitations prevent the transport of goods and the development of industry. A number of ferry routes have too few departures, and in several connections the capacity is too small. Fishing ports are an important part of the Norwegian transport infrastructure. SV has faith in a future for Norwegian fisheries. A necessary point for producing fresh fish and processed fish is good fishing ports. Unfortunately, the appropriations for upgrading our fishing ports and fairways are too low in relation to needs. It will take several decades to upgrade ports to a forward-looking level with today's budget level. SV has also proposed raising the direct earmarked money for racial protection by 110 million. DKK in 2005, from 186 million. to 290 million. kr. Representatives of the Government Parties and the Advance Party are now fighting to show how much the settlement has given their territories. In fact, the Government proposed to reduce the item racial protection from 200 million. to 186 million. kr. In the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, the national road framework increased by 350 million. NOK but only SEK 25 million. kr has gone to racial protection. That's just seven pst. of the amount. It clearly demonstrates that racial protection is not a priority. It surprises us when we see how extreme weather conditions along the coast have blocked local communities, paralyzed traffic and taken human lives. SV will put more gravel under the asphalt. We want to take a roof to asphalt the county roads, which are 30 pst. of the public road network and is the least-standard part of the public road network. Over 20 pst. of the county road network missing solid cover. There are considerable differences between the counties. In a number of counties, the proportion missing is 40 pst. Only 53 pst. of the county roads have 10 tonnes of permitted axle load. We're proposing a new post-marked county road network. The new scheme shall act as an incentive scheme and a split layer between the State and the counties. In addition, we propose the development of a fixed cover action programme on the county road network over a five-year period. It is disappointing that only the Progress Party will support the proposal. Avinor conducts extensive manning services, at a pace that is of concern to several in this room to be able to compromise safety. Reduced revenues due to a decline in air traffic over time have been part of the need for cost reductions. Now it looks like the pendulum is turning around; the revenue is increasing. Then it surprises us that a large majority with open eyes are going in to set up a new civil airport near the Gardermoen, on Rygge, which receives a concession for 750,000 passengers per year. The aerodrome shall also be free to pay to the public safe according to the joint financing scheme for the aerodrome network in Norway, as the other aerodromes do. The report of Societal and Business Research AS, which was the basis for the treatment of St.meld. No 36 for 2003-2004, the owner’s announcement, emphasises in particular that a civil airport at Rygge will compete with Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Such competition would weaken the economic foundations of Gardermoen and Avinor. A significant economic threat to Avinor and the entire airport network in Norway is this decision. The consequences may be either the closure of aerodromes or the increased cost to the State of maintaining the entire network. Finally, the Government and the Advance Party's treatment of the Railway Agency is fairly unique in Norwegian history of transport. There's a reason to ask the Progress Party if they think it's a good way to spend 400 million. EUR of taxpayers' money, to build up a full trade union, to remove 1 000 jobs, with activity throughout the country, and to oblige the Railway Agency to run at double costs while putting everything possible into the market. And to the left: the left-wing voters who believed they voted in a liberal party in 2001 must believe again. For this is not liberal, it is market liberalism. Being liberal means putting social responsibility ahead of competition policy. That the Left can market itself as a liberal party, while liberalist policies are being implemented in fields after fields in the transport sector, should get grassroots in the Left to send the Council of State a dictionary and teach her the difference. No other country in Europe implements such a competitive outsourcing to such an extent and in such a short time. This is the recycling of right-wing ideology from the 1980s. SV goes in, together with the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, to reject the whole proposal on the Railway Agency. The government has not carried out an assessment of whether this would compromise safety. This shall be done after the adoption of the decision. There is a breach of central regulations in the Railway Act. The proposal is therefore totally unacceptable in economic, safety and railway terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e970	The Christian People's Party is concerned with the important role of maritime transport. Maritime transport is dominant in freight transport to and from abroad. It is positive to facilitate the development of ports into efficient connecting points with the land-based transport network. The work on the fairways of the Svelvik stream, Drøbaksundet and the Teldsundet is a priority in the budget. In addition, work on maritime safety and preparedness for acute pollution is also a high priority. In this context, I would like to highlight the literally vital tasks of the Coast Guard and the Rescue Company and the affordable way in which they carry out their work. The Christian People's Party will work to strengthen its role in the Norwegian transport system. We therefore think it is positive that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast is working on a review of the whole structure of fees under the Coastal Zone, with a view to keeping costs at the lowest possible level. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we found room in the budget agreement for extended support for the national road ferries. The Boknafjord connection and the Tau connection have received funds for capacity expansion, and from 1 January, night-travel services are now possible on the routes Volda-Folkestad and Halsa-Kanestraum. In Utkan-Norway, many of the residents are dependent on the ferries, and we want to underline how crucial it is that we now have increased capacity, increased frequency and extended opening times on several ferry routes. The rapid pacepiece at Stokmarknes has been a heartchild of the Christian People's Party for many years. It is very important to keep the 110-year history of Hurtigruta as a very important means of transport and communication for the coastal population. The fast route is also an important part of coastal cultural history, which is a state responsibility to contribute to caring for. The fast route ship «Old Finnmarken», taken ashore in the Stokmarknes, is at risk of being lost. The ship must be built in. The Christian People's Party has always believed that the financing of such a superstructure had to take place in a shattering layer between public and private interests. The attempt to transfer all responsibility to the Ministry of Transport was, in our view, an error, which is now dead. The Christian People's Party is therefore very pleased that, in the agreement with the Advancement Party, it has agreed to add 5 million. kr in support of the Hurtigrutemuseet Old Finnmarken Foundation for 2005 to save the boat until the financing of overcrowding is in place. The municipality of Nordland, as a regional development actor, is responsible for setting up a selection of representatives from the municipality of Nordland, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Social Security, the Municipality of Hadsel and the Foundation of Hurtigrutemuseet Gamle Finnmarken. The committee is given the important task of finding good solutions for the preservation of Hurtigruta’s history and Old Finnmark. As rapporteur for Mr St.meld. No 16 for 2003-2004 About the transport standard and the purchase of transport services on the coastal route from Bergen to Kirkenes – for the period 2005-2012 – I would like to express my joy at the result we are discussing today. The case has been disputed in this house, and it has been a great commitment from the coastal population. It is therefore gratifying that a unanimous increase now in two rounds has set up an operational basis for the Hurtigruta for eight years to come. Socio-economically, I am convinced that Hurtigruta’s significance for Norway far exceeds the amount for which we buy transport services during the period. Now it's the responsibility of companies to provide economically sustainable operations for Hurtigruta in the future, so that we avoid new rounds similar to what we've had this year. The 2005 Transport Budget is very good for my own home country, Nordland. More than 800 million must be used. kr in the county of different transport measures. A major road project will be completed and new ones will be launched. In particular, it is gratifying that the Nordlandsban will receive a proper upgrade with automation, train radio and new crossing tracks. Finally, I would like to give the Christian People's Party full support for the priority of aviation security that the Minister for Transport attaches so much importance to. There is no doubt that the migration process as Norwegian aviation is in the process of being implemented. The conversion process shall proceed. But no one should ever be in doubt that security has first priority. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus between Storing and the Department that nothing is more important than ensuring safety in the air. At the same time, it must be clear that the ongoing process of conversion is necessary and will continue, even if the pace is slowed down. Let it be clear that the Christian People's Party will continue to move the entire Air Safety Authority to Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e994	If not for too long, a few hundred people will stand out here and demonstrate. There are people from the Railway Agency who are going to try to tell us about their concerns. They won't stand out there because they want to tell the representative Kjästad that this is a power demonstration of trustees. They'll stand out there and tell them they're worried about their own job, and they're worried about the safety of those who use trains in Norway. That's the picture of the situation: we've got increasing security. In a short time, insecurity is present in the air, now it's coming on the track, and we'll see it also along the coast. This is the real challenge we face in this debate on transport. It seems like the government's representatives here in the hall are doing what they can to get away from what's the main problem, and they're kind of telling literary fiction because reality isn't what you want to write or talk about. It's a concern, and it's a problem. In this budget position of the majority, something that emerged the last time we had an agreement with the Progress Party, something that no one knew in advance: a junction in Fauske. At first they thought it was a error, but it turned out it was true. It was a little humorous. But now Fauske shows up again, and not only does it show up again, but it shows up with a budget of 22 million. kr – for a non-projected measure. So uncertain is the measure of saying that if it doesn't become 7.5 meters away, and if the parking spaces don't disappear, it can't be done. Then you have to figure out something else to spend 22 million. Add kr. If I were to turn this equation into a per. Consisting and placing it in Oslo, the State of Oslo owes at least DKK 3 billion to road projects for 2005. In the Grorud Valley, 130,000 people live in one of the most polluted areas in the country. 250 million. kr they are waiting for, according to the Fauske model. Now, of course, it should be the Progress Party that should be at the head of it, to show that they are interested in what are the major challenges. Because there is no doubt that if Groruddalen had received 250 million. NOK, I will promise that we had completed projects to spend this money on. And I think we would have been so liberal that we would have said that if you take some parking spaces, it's totally OK, and if you can't get a 7.5 m width on all the roads, it's totally OK, because this is what we're going to be able to use to solve the political challenges. What is being demonstrated here today is a serious way of dealing with the challenges of transport. Then the question is, does this hall give the answer? I am very uncertain about that after the debate that has been going on to date. My starting point for the article today was a completely different one. That means I would then offer some comments on some chapters in the budget position that I would otherwise have concentrated on. But let me say something that is a point: the reorganisation of the Coastal Works is a measure that the industry itself wonders a little bit about, because here one constructs an idea of a market that no one knows where. The Coastal Directorate, who was asked to discuss this topic, says itself that this is a risk project, because the market is so small, and they say that as an opportunity you might find strategic alliances, a larger entrepreneurship company, for example. Mostly, you might be able to establish it. But no: from 1 January 2005, this will be implemented, and in line with all other reorganisations, it will be at an enormous pace. I feel a certain discomfort, and I feel that there is a brutalization of working life. I feel that there is a harassment of public employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1012	From the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry's budget at approx. $2.50 billion is close to 40 pst. to the coastal management – unloading, security, ports and lighthouses. It also reflects the fact that the Government prioritizes a clean and rich sea. The prerequisite for this is safe and environmentally friendly maritime transport. The result of such a policy provides a basis for value creation and coastal settlement. I am pleased that the majority of the Grand Duchy today endorses the Government's proposal. In addition, my sector is added 5 million. kr for further work on the City Tunnel. Of course, I will follow up the Storting's intentions in the budgetary statement, and will, in accordance with what the Government said in the National Transport Plan, invite local and regional authorities and other stakeholders to cooperate in order to clarify the basis for any procurement. A significant part of the Coastal Plant’s activities is user-funded. This is a recognised principle and, of course, it is a challenge for both the Coastal Administration and the ports to operate as cost-effectively as possible in order to limit the level of costs of maritime transport, which in turn is an important competitive factor when users choose the mode of transport. Losing and traffic control services and 34 pst. of the costs of lighters and brands, user-funded in the 2005 budget. The coastal fee is increased in line with that objective. The government is also working, as previously announced in the National Transport Plan, on a review of the structure of fees and charges in coastal management and in a comprehensive transport sector. As part of the streamlining of the public sector, the Government has proposed to transform the production of the Coastal Works into a State limited liability company from 1 January 2005, such as: The last speeches were on the table. This gives us a desired distinction between the Coastal Authority tasks and production activities. At the same time, we can continue and further develop the high level of competence of the Coastal Administration staff in the development and maintenance of major ports, major navigation installations and fairways. The result of a new organisation and competitive outsourcing will provide more ports and more maintenance for the money Stortinget grants for the purpose at all times. And because of the need for expansion and initial investment in, inter alia, fishing ports are large, more production for each krona is also a good investment. Recently there has been a debate on Norwegian presence on Jan Mayen after the Loran C phase out. The Meteorological Institute has notified that they are assessing their activities on the island. When Loran C is phased out on 1 January 2006 because of a lack of interest in the system, I will return to the question of infrastructure and staffing on Jan Mayen in the 2006 budget. I also point out that the Government recently took the decision to move into the development of the Galileo satellite navigation system with the EU, and it would be natural to see this also in relation to Jan Mayen. With regard to matters that the Committee has affected regarding oil protection preparedness and other safety, I would point out that we are going to present a large-scale notification in a short time. There, these themes will receive a broad and thorough treatment, and the Stortinget will thus have the opportunity to give its way, in its full breadth. However, I would like to stress here that the 2005 budget is a commitment to safe maritime transport and preparedness. At the beginning of 2005, an automatic ship identification system, known as AIS, is established along the coast and will be used in the traffic monitoring of Coastal Stations. Work on new traffic centres in Vardø is planned and will be completed by 2007. The cooperation with the Coast Guard and the Rescue Company is good, and I give them both credit for the way they carry out their duties. The government has prioritised the Rescue Company in all the budgets we have provided, and this year the SEK 60 million subsidy ceiling is broken. It is also a recognition of the voluntary efforts made by the Society's broad organisation around the country. The 2005 budget for preparedness for acute pollution is a continuation of the commitment for 2004. A change in the cost allocation between the Coast Guard and the Coast Guard in respect of the 2005 towing boat capacity implies a technical reduction in the Coast Guard budget, while increasing the efforts of the Coast Guard within the Ministry of Defence budget. It is therefore not correct, as stated in the minority's remark, that the budget for preparedness has been weakened. The establishment of State tug capacity from 2004 onwards represents a significant increase in the response to acute pollution and, as I said, we will return to the full scope of these issues in the short-term forecast. Let me just end by saying that the Government is continuing the effort on measures for accessibility and safety in the fairways. Priority will be given to the maintenance of navigation installations in 2005. We have proposed the completion of the repair of the fairways in Tjeldsundet, Svelvikström and Drøbaksundet. It is a priority from the Swedish Coast Guard Agency that we should complete the most possible projects before we start new ones. There has been a tendency to start so many projects that you have not been able to finish them, either in ports or otherwise. But the priorities we have set will mean a significant improvement in the safety of navigation and the emergence of highly trafficked traffic controllers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1042	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1045	I was in my main post dealing with the question of turning the Coastal Works manufacturing activities into an AS, and I referred to the investigation carried out by the Coastal Directorate, where you were very sceptical about this project, because it was so risky because of the small market in which you were going to compete. It was recommended that a strategic alliance be sought with a larger entrepreneurship company. Has this been entirely uninteresting to the ministry before they now submit their own proposal, which is a direct transition to an AS? And point two: Is it not worrying that the suspension also announces that at least 40 of the 103 employed there today will be subject to a cutting that will take place as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1054	The transformation of the Coastal Works’ production activities into a state limited liability company is part of the government’s efforts to improve the efficiency of the public sector. But there is also a statement of trust for the employees in the production activities of the Coastal Works, the skills they stand for, and in order to meet open competition. It is true that there is a limited market. But there is also a niche production that requires special competence. The government has assessed all forms of organisation, including the issues raised by the questioner in its article, including: in the case of alliances. We have come to the conclusion that an organisation such as a state limited liability company will produce the best results in the long term. But we do not underestimate the challenges such as: the employees are in the process of being reduced by the volume of the contract in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1061	When the preparedness for emergency pollution was transferred from the State pollution control department to the Coastal Agency, a small department took care of and ensured that there is no contamination from the many wrecks that lie along the Norwegian coast. In 1997, the State Pollution Control Authority carried out a review, the so-called ‘Waste Report’, which prioritised 15 wrecks that it felt had to be secured in order to avoid oil pollution. One of the top priority wrecks is at the end of what has later become a salmon fjord, namely at the end of Namsen. On the question of whether nothing should be done to ensure the HMS ‘Bitten’, which is at the end of Namsen, the Council of States responds to a new review in 2005, probably similar to that carried out in 1997. Isn't it soon that we get to do something with these wrecks? And don't we really know quite well what the score is?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1070	It's part of the reality along the coast that a significant number of wrecks are there. It is also the case that the Coastal Plant continuously monitors the wrecks that must be considered to have a potential as a pollution hazard. The coastal works do this continuously, and in that way we will also be well prepared if it has to be intervened in relation to individual wrecks. The situation, as assessed by the professional authorities now, is that there is no basis for doing anything more. These are also issues that we will address in the context of the Storing Communication, and this will be a good opportunity to elaborate on the points of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1077	The budget proposal states that the vows of the Coastal Plant are almost unchanged from year to year. Yes, the 2004 balance is lower than the 2003 balance. The 2005 budget is approximately at the 2003 level, if we keep the traffic centre in North Norway outside. At the same time, we know that the Coastal Plant has many and large unsolved tasks. There are many tasks that await both port side, rental marking, and so on. Is the Council of State satisfied with the developments that have been taking place in the vows of the Coastal Agency?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1084	Coastal tasks related to ports, related to safety and to traffic controllers and navigation are considerable. There will always be a question of priorities. In recent years, the Government has chosen to prioritise safety, not least in view of the risks posed by increased traffic. Then you can not, like the representative Ringstad, pick out individual items in that bet and say that there is little left for the rest. Not least, we have given priority to building up a towboat capacity along the coast. We have chosen to give priority to the development of traffic centres in the northern regions, just to have a safe coast and to contribute to the clean sea. We could probably have wished we had additional funds from time to time. But in the priority that the Government has done, I am pleased that we have gained a focus on some areas within the area of responsibility of the Coast Guard, as well as that we have built up a renewed trust with the Rescue Company by increasing their appropriations each year, and that we have a very good cooperation with the Coast Guard. You have to see these things in context and not calculate the way that Jorunn Ringstad is doing wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1089	It's true, as the Council of State says, that the Coastal Production will operate in a niche market. That was a little bit of my point, too, that it was a niche market. But the Coastal Production has a handicap in this niche market, they don't have equipment for dredging. When they enter a competition, it is part of this niche market, i.e. a niche in the niche, which does not require the production of the Coastal Works to be able to operate if they do not have the necessary equipment. The question is then: will the Council of State ensure that this future Coastal Plant Production as an AS company will have the financial opportunities to invest in that type of equipment? So I just want to say one thing that doesn't affect the Council of States, in and of itself. On page 40 of the Committee’s opinion, it is a wording relating to the Loran C system which states that it will be closed with effect from 1 January 2006. That is correct for Norway. There are other parts of Europe where they will still have an operational Loran C system. So to the extent that there is doubt about that wording on the part of the committee, I have corrected it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1096	Then it's Heidi Sørensen, who gets the last line. No, first of all, the Council of State must be given a reasonable answer. There might be some of the points with this question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1102	One alternative was that the representative Froyn and I had a conversation in the hiking hall, but it may well be easy to answer from the Stortinge pulpit. It's right, as the representative says, that it's a niche market. That does not mean that the Coastal Works Production as a limited liability company has to limit itself to what they have the competence to do today. Dredging is to a large extent restricted to equipment, but it has port development competence. I'd like to await the board's and the administration's proposal on expanding the market, if they find it interesting. I will take a strong distance from the character of the representative Froyn in his main post, that there is a harassment of state employees, implicitly also in the Coastal Production. That's not right. We have great confidence that the Coastal Works Production employees will be able to face the competition offensively. That's the signals we've been given so far. Otherwise it would not be possible to convert it into a limited liability company. I trust this company. I have faith that they will win the competition in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1111	I did not quite understand the answer I received from the Council of State instead. The response we received from the Ministry in the budget setting was that a new full review was to be carried out in 2005 of the situation for all wrecks. To me, it looks like it's about the same thing you did in 1997. In 1997, it was concluded that there were a number of wrecks where action had to be taken. I'm a little concerned that what's going on here is that we've moved a unit from one department to another department, that you don't take your professional assessments, and that you do everything over again. The result is that the necessary measures are being postponed. Six wrecks are being monitored. From the wreck that lies at the end of Namsen, it has been observed to be spilling oil. At that time it should have been time to draw the conclusion already reached in 1997 that action should be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1118	If the representative with his question suggests that the Coastal Works should not have competence or should not take information from other departments, the Coastal Works have been poorly followed. This is undoubtedly our leading body with competence in what is happening on the coast, as with its presence, as well as in the monitoring of wrecks, reviewing the status of those who are there, and having a preparedness when and if action is needed. When you have a full review, and when you have a continuous monitoring, you are also prepared, both in the department and in the Coastal Agency, to intervene when and if it is considered necessary. The Coast Guard is not a new operator on the coast. I want to take a strong distance from suggesting that the Coastal Plant does not take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1123	The President was injured to call this a Question Time, and it has its reason that there were good questions and good answers. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1128	Good and fair distribution is an important objective of the Labour Party's policy. About 100,000 people today are unemployed in an economy that is going quite well. This must be an expression that the fight against unemployment is not high enough priority given by the Government. The working party has, in its alternative budget, over DKK 1 billion more for transportation than the Government. This is an important contribution to increased employment, to better supply in scattered areas and not least to the business environment. This Government loves privatisation and cuts professional rights. This has become an exercise for them – I will soon compare this with England and Margaret Thatcher's methods of cracking the work of the movement. This government is not going to do it. It's a choice for the next harvest, and I understand that the government is very busy. There is not enough evidence to support the privatisation of public services and tasks on the contrary. It can be demonstrated that privatisation is often more expensive and less expensive than the public can provide. The government is attacking employees' pay and employment conditions through its race for privatisation. Everything can, of course, be privatized. This pure Right Policy is like pure madness, and this is the Christian People's Party to implement. The Sem Declaration mentions, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t «The governance process will extend the use of competitive outsourcing in the public sector.» There are a lot of people out there who are afraid of the next bidding round, because it's just the pay and working conditions of the employees that they want to cut in to achieve the ideological goal of the Government. The Right-Original Government operates an unsocial distribution policy with a strong privatisation lever. The Labour Party believes that the Government’s proposals on the budget for transport are ambitious in view of the challenges Norway faces in the transport sector. In addition, the Government does not take seriously the decision of the Storting regarding the treatment of the national transport plan in spring 2006–2015 that more money should be spent on transport over the next 10 years. The Labour Party will point out that Norway is a country with significant challenges and great opportunities in the transport sector. We must continue to build the country. There is a great need to maintain, renovate and build new roads. The same applies to the railway network. Unfortunately, the government parties and the Progress Party kept one of their promises at the year's budget. It was the promise of more privatisation and a share company. The Government and the Progress Party, last with this budget, have, together during this great period, ensured that society has provided important road, rail, postal, aviation and port governance opportunities. Ideology has triumphed over reason. To date, the government has not been able to provide a single figure showing that their policies have provided more road, rail or postal services for the money. We in the Workers' Party are afraid that this policy will cost far more than the win will ever be. The fact that the railway works, responsible for the safety itself on the railway track, are suitable for privatisation seems rather incomprehensible. Which Norwegian or foreign companies have the insight and local knowledge that can make the network as secure as the Railway Agency can do? While there is a safe potential for efficiency improvement also within the railway works, it should be possible to achieve it by means other than privatisation, which only creates uncertainty and uncertainty. As regards the item, the Workers' Party has invested more money in its alternative budget to reduce the dividend requirement in the Item Norge AS. Unfortunately, in its budget, the government has increased the dividend requirement for next year, despite the fact that at the beginning of the year the majority of the population agreed to a significantly lower level. The Workers' Party believes that the Government's dividend policy is dangerous, as it could lead to further demands for efficiency and downsizing in an already pressed enterprise. We in the Workers' Party will also express our strong concern that the Post Norway AS as an important Norwegian infrastructure is also at risk of weakening as a result of further liberalisation of the postal market. The working party enters into the budget to stop the conversion of the traffic stations. We ask that this come back to Stortinget after the matter has been better investigated in view of the concerns of the users of the services. The government is also in favour of liberalising the taxi industry. The Labour Party is also opposed to this. The working party knows that those who want a wage to live off must work double shifts. Full liberalisation of the taxi industry will probably lead to tougher working conditions and reduced safety. Nor is it without reason that the government is facing great opposition to the proposal in the districts. In the course of the budgetary procedure, the Workers' Party also requires the Government to arrange the compensation scheme for the differentiated employer's fee. The Workers' Party believes that the Government must follow up compensation funds for increased employers' fees, because the level of filling is too low. It is important that the projects planned to be implemented with compensation funds are followed up as planned. These are important projects, especially for the business community in the districts. Finally, I would like to state that it is good that there is now a solution to the matter regarding the Hurtigrutemuseet in Stokmarknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1169	I am proud of the government budget for 2005. This year, too, there is a strong commitment to trade, both in terms of more money and new conversion measures, which in turn will provide more transportation for the money. If we see this four-year period as a whole, there has been a lot of activity in road development across the country. A total of 44 road projects with an estimated cost of more than 200 million. kr has been started or completed. The main roads are and become the backbone of our transport system, and for this reason they will have to maintain a consistently good standard. It is also necessary to see longer distances in context, important strain viruses such as E6 in Eastfold, E18 Oslo-Kristiansand, E39 Kristiansand-Stavanger and E6 northwards to Lillehammer. On these sections, and on many others, the Government has forced the development of the action plans adopted. This stands for respect. At the same time, we also have a great deal of investment in the secondary national road network and in racial areas. This is important in order to maintain the scattered settlement we have in the country, as well as to be able to strengthen and improve the emergence of our business life. In 2005, approx. 490 million. kr is used for projects and measures to protect against race on the road network. Safety and good transport services in everyday life are crucial for all of us. Traffic safety and prevention are important to achieve our objective: zero vision – no fatalities or injuries in traffic. We're going to bet a lot on this field, 470 million. in 2005 for specific road safety measures. That's 70 million. kr more than in 2004. If you include tolls, it'll be about. 540 million. kr. The measures taken are aimed at the most accident-affected routes we have, for example: in the development of quadruple roads, the construction of physical divisions between directions, more lighting of roads, cross-repair, improvement of driving licence training and more controls. The government is also continuing to invest in public transport. Better public transport and more environmentally friendly urban transport are important. Increasing car traffic often creates queue problems, especially in and around our big cities. This creates problems for business and difficulties in the handling and handling of goods. That is why we are strengthening, among other things: the 40 million reward scheme. NOK 115 million. kr in 2005, in order to improve public transport and reduce car use. This will provide room for better collective provision and reduced collective rates. Increased competition, conversion and efficiency have been and are important to the Right. We are proud of what has been started or proposed by the Government so far. Our goal is always to focus on providing the best possible offer to transport users, and we will continue to pursue this policy, unlike what we have heard from the socialist side today. They do not dare to change one component to make it better for our passengers and users. I look forward to 2005 for Agder. In this context, the level of activity will increase in both public transport, road development, racial protection and road safety measures, as well as in the middle of accident-affected road sections. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about Document No. The 8 proposal, in the case of traffic stations. We want to attach this protocol. The change in the structure of services in the road and vehicle areas is a follow-up to Stortingen's treatment of the reorganisation of the state road system. The aim is to create a better and more decentralised service provision throughout the country, and services should be provided wherever possible where users are. It is also in line with the Government's desire for a more efficient and modern state administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1197	The Labour Party has spent a billion dollars more in its alternative budget than the Transport Government, to improve the visibility of business, to improve the transport capabilities of most people and to facilitate people to live and work in all of Norway. After the Workers' Party's opinion, it is necessary to invest in both road and rail. Increased deployment of the rail network is an effective way to reduce traffic corks around large cities, improve road safety and reduce environmental problems. The government party did not keep what they promised for the current NTP period. This shows the government's own numbers, the deficit is 3,800 million. kr. This happens despite the fact that there have never been as many oil crowns in the Norwegian economy as under this government. But it's for tax-free money, because it's both social and industrial policy. But there's one promise the Government has kept, and it's the promise of competitive postponement, read: privatisation. This raw run that Right has set up when it comes to the Railway Works Drift, which to everyone's surprise gets a whole-hearted support from the Christian People's Party, and of course from the Progress Party, can mean that nearly 1,000 people with a high level of competence in this field are missing their jobs. Last Sunday, the State Council of Skogsholm stated that this transformation had to be based on camaraderie and lack of an overview of security. Now I have heard today that she herself takes a distance from this use of words, and that is good. But I haven't heard anything that says it's necessary for security to do this grip that the Council of State does. Clearing roles has nothing to do with putting off competition. If necessary, of course, the Council of State must address this issue so that the roles are clear and the security is preserved. In the debate today, one after the other of the government parties has almost surpassed each other in boasting about the amount of money that has been allowed to the transport sector. Compare with what? I ask. It's pointless to come up with these numbers when one failed to say that in the last three years, under the Bondevik II government, 196 billion oil crowns were used, while in comparison 10 billion oil crowns were used for the two years the Stoltenberg government created the budget. More money has been spent on everything in these last three years, but what is the highest priority from the Government's side is tax-free, so they have not been able to keep their own plans when it comes to promises to the transport sector. The Labour Party has kept the financial framework that we promised, and in our alternative budget, we would spend more money than the Government provided. Hordaland is a state with a lot of big toll projects, which means that every hordal thing pays thousands of dollars every year to run on our roads. Still, people are willing to pay more if they get something more. A large county road project in Hordaland is the Jondal tunnel. We will return to the financing plan, but one of the commitments was that the state would participate with 50 million. kr. There was disappointment in Hardanger when the government’s government budget was presented, but the Stortinget has fortunately arranged it. The working party has added the 50 million. kr taken from the country’s side. This should also have been done by the Government Party and the Advance Party. But I still hope that Hordaland County will be able to create a credible financing plan with the 30 million. kr as the plural today licenses. It is important for Hardanger and Jondal municipalities that municipalities can be linked when it comes to infrastructure. Then you can also look at the municipal boundaries. The competition has been a mantra here today. No one mentions social accounting when the different sectors are exposed to competition/privatisation. People get final packages from them in their 40s and early retirement in their 50s. A lot of people go into unemployment, and a lot of people get unemployed. This is unworthy of the individual and unworthy and expensive to society. After the Workers' Party's opinion, the most important task is now to get out of work and include more in the labour market. This post-competitive situation is going in the opposite direction. The Labour Party will dry what is needed, but it is absolutely reprehensible to do what the Government Party and the Advance Party do today. And when the Progress Party today says that they've got their whole program through when it comes to privatisation, together with the Christian People's Party, Left and Right, it speaks its clear language.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1218	We're going into the last fiscal year for a four-year period with fantastic transitions in the transport sector. There is evidence of a lack of understanding of the modernisation when the opposition to the processes of change creates new, but limited, concepts such as ‘AS-certification’, or, even more misleading, ‘privatisation’. That, of course, is not what this is all about. For the Coastal Works, this is not just about the outsourcing of the Production Coastal Works. It is also about extracting the synergy effect after the integration of state preparedness for emergency pollution, it is about cost and income control in the pilot and traffic centre activities, and it is about developing the Coastal Plant as a port establishment. Here it is important to facilitate intermodality, for example. to maximise the transition of cargo from road to keel. For the same reason, it is important to review the full cost situation of the Coastal Plant, with a view to keeping costs to the lowest possible level. This review will also address several issues, including the cost orientation of the fee structure. It is also necessary to undertake work to elucidate the interface between maritime transport and road transport and the degree of transition that can be achieved with reasonable means. For the Coastal Works, the budget has also focused on the tug capacity in North Norway and oil protection for the rest. The traffic centre in Vardø shall end after the timetable. The deployment of Automatic Identification Systems will be completed in 2004 by the Council of State. The agreement indicates that 5 million will be granted. kr to determine the basis for the invitation to tender for the Stad tunnel. It's an important thing. The setting quotes from the national transport plan, which states that this project ‘should be considered in the context of the future overall transport structure of the region’. Cooperation with local and regional authorities, as well as with shipping companies and private operators, is envisaged in order to find a solution to move forward with this project. There is reason to remember that the Stortinget has previously also granted money to the City Ship Tunnel. This amounts to DKK 6–8 billion for a pre-project – together with the two most affected county municipalities. In line with the legislation on measures above 500 million. kr this pre-project has been subjected to external quality assurance with the main stamp ‘approved’. We are aware that the Coastal Agency already has dialogue with local parties, which is in line with St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004. There is perhaps reason to remember that despite some events with the city’s fast route, St.meld. No 24 excluded the fast route from the Stad ship's tunnel due to the size, of course. However, it is important that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Fisheries and the Coastal Works confirm that the planned cross-section of 980 m2 is agreed with the local parties, in order to provide a clear basis for the planning of tenders. To finance it is to say that there have been no world champions in this process from the debating fractions; there is currently no funding in the national transport plan for this project. A representative of the Government Parties has referred to the budget in 2006 as the first rounding turn, and it can certainly be accepted, in the same way that a list candidate from the Central Party has considered whether or not to be 700-800 million. kr, it may have been an excessive step in the revised national budget to have this project fully financed. Nevertheless, it is for the Minister of Fisheries, the Ministry and the Coastal Agency to harmonise calls for tender with funding, as also mentioned in the external quality assurance contained in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1238	The transport budget is one of the budgets that engages most outside this house. Road, track, aircraft, public transport, etc. People are most concerned about, because it affects people in everyday life. Therefore, it is also important to keep the promises made. But it doesn't happen. The Labour Party holds the promises we made in the National Transport Plan 2002–2005. In an otherwise tight budget where many good objectives were to be given priority, we were also able to give priority in the field of transport. Workers' parties keep what we promise. We're going to spend $1100 million in our alternative budget. kr more than the 2005 Transport Administration. Government parties break their promises. They won't keep what they promised. The government's own figures show that they're missing 3,800 million. kr. The Progress Party has now adorned some of these figures in the budget agreement for next year. But 350 million. kr was all that the Progress Party was given, and it will be puzzled compared to all the road projects the Progress Party has promoted in this room: four-field E6 from north to south, new and better E18 from a to, etc. We remember all the suggestions. It's just to take note, and it's okay to bring with you in the upcoming election campaign. In one area, however, I am pleased that the Progress Party put its foot down, because the Labour Party granted 25 million in its alternative budget. kr to E18 in Østfold, so that the extension would not stop until next year, but could continue with a new parcel. It was necessary. When the Advance Party realized that it was only they, as the negotiating partner of the Government, who could get this money in place – the government had not granted a single crown – it became an activity locally. Locally they realized that now it was no longer helpful to use the familiar argument of the Progress Party that they are against tolls, and get away with it. The bombs stand there and the road users pay for them, but the stops in the works are not accepted. Now there's going to be a new pair start in 2005, and everybody's happy. Today, trains stand still for three hours. The same thing happens with trams and T-courses in Oslo for one hour. Employees protest against the privatisation of the country's railway operations by the Government and the Advance Party. The working party understands that this is happening. In this area, the Government keeps its promises! Postponement of competition and privatisation have become the trademark of this government. Now it is the Railway Station Operation that is about to go away. 1000 people lose their jobs, and the railway works are largely left with construction functions. BaneService, those who have carried out the operation and maintenance on the line, becomes a share company. This does not happen because it is necessary, but because it is anchored in ideology. That the Right Party and the Advance Party believe this is well known. And we heard the representative Hoddevik, who called it the ‘fantastic transformations in the transport sector’. But where are the Christian People's Party and the Left, who are also sitting with the Minister of Transport, up to this? It's incomprehensible. Whether it will give more money to transportation is very doubtful. So far it isn't visible either, rather the opposite. But we know the result: less community management, greater risk and that many are out of work. I'm sorry about the Workers' Party. Finally, a little bit about the Mosse tunnel. The Workers' Party believes that the development of the dual-track railway through Østfold must take place from the north and south. No other order makes sense. Area for expansion has been purchased by the municipality of Moss, Peterson in Moss has invested $1 billion in the company and Elkem 300 million. kr. Their greatest wish is for the railway to take over more of the transport for these companies. It's environmentally friendly, and we should all try to be. Peterson now has to drive 100,000 tons of goods to Alnabru, because that's the only way to reach the railway. The money is within the first part of the four-year period, but the government believes that the money should first be used for the couple Haug-Onsøy. Further work on plans and action plans has now stopped more or less. I am asking the Minister of Transport for progress in the planning of the railways through Moss.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1266	Traffic is an important policy area with a view to using the whole country, both in terms of busses and not least in relation to local economic development. The main challenge today is the poor road standard in much of the country, and not least in Telemark. The Budget Agreement between the Advance Party and the Government Party provided a little more money for upgrading and maintaining roads, but that is far from enough. The government's party is miles from what they promised in the National Transport Plan 2002–05. Missing permissions to improve the existing road surface are, as I said, the main challenge in my country – a state that the Committee and several state councils have visited several times, so that they can record the bad standard on their own. It can be shown that Telemark has come all the way to the rear. About 40 pst. of the national road network in Telemark does not have the standard that the state road system itself has set as a standard target. Telemark has received far too little funds for investment and maintenance of the road network over several years, and measurements made show that the standard on the road surface in Telemark, and especially in District Telemark, is worst in the whole country. Not much imagination is needed to understand that the transport industry is struggling, and that the population gets very frustrated when the conditions are what they are. If the country and industry are to succeed in their ambitions to further develop and strengthen innovation and innovation potentials in favour of Norway as an industrial nation, a whole depends on obtaining greater opportunities for transport than current government powers to achieve. This should involve the political lease in the department. E134 has the status of tribal road and national transport corridor. It is itself the main trunk of a large and interconnected transport system south of Hardangervidda. A modern society is characterized by good and high mobility. In a stronger competition for labour, jobs and markets, good transport conditions are decisive for success. That is why this route is so important to large parts of the South, East and West. The size is known that the State Road Authority now enforces a more stringent current height sign for the E134, the Haukeli tunnels. It is of course important to maintain and enforce road safety rigorously, but it is a little strange that it appears that only this route is subject to a more stringent enforcement of road safety. This matter must be resolved immediately, otherwise the goods between east and west will become completely llama. I understand that there is now a good dialogue on setting up temporary solutions, and that is good, but action must also be taken on a permanent basis. Politics is about prioritizing. It is good rural policy, good industrial policy and good health policy to focus more on improving road standards in Norway. I said in the debate last year that it might now be time to go in for a social reform. I take up this question now, because it looks like that's what's going on to put culture on the political agenda. Finally, I would like to address the question relating to the postponement of competition and privatisation, which has also been raised here by several others. Today, there is a strong political signal out there that the majority of the population is not on the wave length with much of the population on this issue. The operation of the railway system must be shut down and will terminate 1000 during a five-year period. This is a human being who will face a very uncertain future, this is a human being who will meet again in line at Aetat, on the list of those who will be disabled or disabled. This is an ideology on which society loses economically, and which gives man a weak quality of life. The tracks after conversion in other public etats in the last few years should get someone to think about one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1293	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1298	In the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers’ Party for 2004, the road sector had a yield of 200 million. kr. Of this, 14 million went. kr for road construction in Hordaland. The budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party on the State budget for 2005 has resulted in 350 million. kr more on the way, a development far from being puzzled. The Progress Party has put its clear mark on the budget agreement. Of this 350 million exchange. NOK more on the way goes 30 million. kr to Hordaland through State allocation to the Jondal Tunnel. This is very much joyous. It is gratifying because the Jondals Tunnel is an important transport project in the Inner Hardanger region, a region where the transport infrastructure is poor and needs upgrading. This region faces major challenges in the transformation of traditional business and in the creation of new jobs. The Jondal Tunnel ensures the mobility of business, workers and others for most people. It is gratifying because the Jondal tunnel, together with the existing Folgefonn tunnel that was put into service in mid-2001, will create an effective cooperating region of large parts of Hardanger and Women'sherad. It's a pleasure because the Jondal tunnel is a project that provides effective racial protection between Odda and Bergen. It's joyous because the Jondal Tunnel will provide faster connections westwards towards the Bergen and eastwards towards the E134 Haukeli. With the state resources for the Jondals tunnel, a total financing package of approx. 500 million. kr. The state gets a lot of money. The project is one of the few remaining major county road projects that Stortinget has previously said would find its financing solution through a state transitional arrangement. Now the state money is in place; it means that the rest is in place, and so the construction of the Jondal tunnel is now secured. The rest is the municipality of Hordaland, the municipalities of Jondal, Kvam and Odda, the business community of the region and the road users to pay. Among the many active parties that have worked for the project, there is reason to mention the business of the region, which also takes financial promise. For my part, I would like to remind you that the Progress Party has worked for the project from a lonely minority in 1997 to today's broad uprising in the Hordaland county. I also stress – with reference to the comment text of the agreement on the Jondal tunnel on page 17 of the vote – that when the financing plan and toll application are finally approved here in Stortinget, the money is also to be considered bound and spent on the project. I also stress on behalf of the Progress Party that it is of course assumed that the Hordaland Road Office is setting full speed on the work towards the start of construction according to the timetable that the Road Office has always laid down, namely construction start in the autumn of 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1315	There is no doubt that the Labour Party budget for the entire transport sector would give business better framework conditions and improve employment, because there are too many people in the construction industry who are out of work. Our budget would have improved the environment, and we would have developed a completely necessary infrastructure in the districts. Our plan is simply to build the country. I see from what the bourgeois parties think, that there are indications of a large-scale cessation of sales of the values of the community. The new fashion word is ‘competition’ and the new growth industry is the driving force. Where are the perspectives for social security? Who will finally be deployed if all infrastructure is privatised? Who is going to be ready for an emergency without paying for it? Therefore, privatisation has several sides. I have raised an important issue with the members of the Committee, and there is a warning for hearing impaired people about the various means of transport. For example, now that Hurtigruta receives a three-digit million sum, the Council of State should impose concession terms that there is satisfactory warning in a crisis situation and that it is also available to hearing-impaired persons. Fortunately, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have pointed this out in the setting, and I ask the Council of State to note this as an important follow-up to the concession terms for Hurtigruta. The Labour Party has also put forward a proposal that a ferry over Randsfjorden should be financed from the State budget, i.e. the ferry gets national road status. There's a highway on both sides of Randsfjorden, and the ferry runs across Randsfjorden. This is small money for the state – gross is 2.5 million. kr – but there is a lot of money for dwindled municipal offices and county municipal offices. I also think the Council of State should look into that. In addition, road appropriations and transport appropriations to Uppland are far too small. E6 needs more – improvements and bottlenecks remain. Working with Rv. 4 through Raufoss must not stop, so that you can't pass through Gran and Lunner in a continuous distance, so that you don't make the same mistakes on Rv. 4 that you've done on rv. 35, the main road through Jevnaker. There's a lot left of it, and it should also find its solution in the coming years. Not least, the E16 through Valdres has waited long enough for a final road solution to the Laerdal Tunnel. But what is perhaps the most worrying thing in the whole scheme put forward by the bourgeois government, with the support of the Progress Party, are the signals about the cessation of sales of a number of Community values.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1332	I am very pleased that the Boknafjord connection and the Tau connection get more ferry departures after the budget agreement between the Advance Party and the government parties. There's four million left over. kr extra to the Boknafjord connection and 5 million. kr extra to the Tau connection. This will mean an extra ferry to the Tau connection, and there will be extra take-offs with existing ferries in the Boknafjord connection. The drivers in Rogaland are waiting for hours on the ferries in the two connections, and we sit over both one and two ferries and three ferries. This has led to a strong commitment to change this situation. Both individuals and businesses have been heavily affected by too poor an offer. That is why this budget has been received with joy among all those who depend on these two important links. However, I would like to stress that the long-term solution to these two main problems is Ryfast and Rogfast. However, in an interpellation debate on the holiday offer on 18 November this year, I highlighted the importance of also finding a flexible solution in relation to the Hjelmeland connection. In this context, there is a need for small adjustments to ensure that a key business to which the salmon slaughterhouse is connected is better aligned with their operations. Here we are talking about very important jobs in the district. Municipalities and municipalities have tried to bring the Vegvesen on a spice layer to ensure the necessary adjustment of the frequency, but have found little flexibility. Here's a few hundred thousand dollars. In the budget agreement, the two major ferry links in the region are ensured a significantly better frequency. This has also been the highest priority of local authorities. But I would like to ask the Minister for Transport to open up a flexible use of some of these funds to the Hjelmeland connection if the solution to the other two connections becomes somewhat more reasonable than assumed. Of course, then, there must be a reason why the offer in these connections is no worse than what is intended. But there's a reason to think that maybe the solution to the Bokenfjord connection could cost a little less than $4 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1343	This year's pluralization by the Committee on Transport tells of major dramatic changes that have occurred and that will happen. I hope it's this government post-ludium. My feelings tell me that ideology is going first – several steps lead to taking care of the workers and the dishes that have been negotiated. In my previous life, I was also an employer. There was the unwritten rule that if everyone played on layers, one got out the best and maximum of each other. The way this government takes care of its additions is quite the opposite. The more insecure and unsafe they are in relation to their work situation, the better. Someone even talks about temporary addition being a good one, but for who? That's why many people are going on demonstration trains today. The working party has a completely different approach to adding, fortunately. The working party has 1 million. kr more for transport purposes – mostly by road, of course. However, in order to stimulate regional policy instruments, we believe that the road charge for the carriage of vehicles by rail must be removed. The margins in the forestry industry are very small. That's what we were told on the earring. In real policy, it is natural for us to propose that that fee should be removed. The discussion has been between the NSB AS and the Ministry on the amount of VAT compensation that will be incurred by the NSB. The committee has asked several questions in that lead, more questions without any good answers. The working party finds that it is not so easy to get the fasitiv at this point in time, but has expressed, in a note, that if the NSB is right, it divides about 50 million. kr., the ministry has to come back with the promise in the revised budget for spring, otherwise we can't expect to get the train production that we were supposed to get. So we can't get a bigger train production than what we're financing. I hope the Council of State can give an answer as to whether it is willing to look at it in the revised version. So a little visit to the National Council on Watches, which is now to be removed. In Hallingdal we don't have a good bus offer as it is now. There's one bus a day, which might also be gone, and then the car becomes the alternative. There'll be a fight. The train we want! It is gratifying that the Progress Party, after years with resistance to the importance of Rv. 50 Hol-Aurland, really got his bucket pants on and let me get 1 million. kr. Now there will be no more night closures or closures like hanging over the mountains. Joy is great. I'm glad that a year's battle from the Workers' Party has been successful. Now it won't be like the third candidate from Høge said, that Upper Hallingdal will be a snowy ridge.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1360	This government is betting on environment and security, said the Council of State. Yes, councillor! All those who have had the hope that the sitting government with a Minister of Transport from the Left will be betting on the railways are disappointed today. I don't know the environmental party left from the time I sat in the transportation committee. Now the Right Party and the Advance Party have eaten up the entire Left Party. There is only one answer to everything: privatisation and outsourcing. There has never been any greater concern about Norwegian railway policy. And I can't read out of this budget or of the odelstningsproposition any good reason or any good economy in the outsourcing and transformation of the railway works' production activities. It seems quite incomprehensible that you really take money from the investments to the railway to pay for the competitive outsourcing. People who really know the railways in Norway get fired. A 1 000 year's worth of work is to be lost. In the Workers' Party, we're very concerned about the robbery government is now running on people in state agencies. In the social committee, we closely follow developments in the number of people who are sick, reintroduced or disabled. In that row, too many people come from state enterprises. It's going to be more. Competitive outsourcing may bring benefits in one area, but at least it leads to heavy expenditure on the social security budget. I'm glad my party goes against this. The railway works' professionals are being dismissed, and they argue that the railway should be safer than ever. Yeah, you know what! I don't believe that. So instead of betting on a modern railway in Norway and taking a power roof for the railway, the government chooses this. So instead of increasing the appropriations for the railways, as the majority in the Grand Duchy has given way, the Government is lowering the appropriations, with the support of the Advance Party. In Telemark, we have been very pleased that the majority in the NTP adopted NOK 10 billion more for the railway during the planning period. It will provide rooms for the construction of, among others. Eidanger tunnel during the planning period. So we're assuming that the planning of this tunnel continues. If you want to bet on the railways in Norway at all, this is a profitable national project. It is quite incomprehensible that 100 000 people in the border region should not have a modern, environmentally friendly railway. The majority of the Committee has previously asked the Government to consider giving more ferry routes in the country national road status, including: Ferry connection in Kragerø Archipelago, rv. 38, and then come back to Stortinget with it. It hasn't happened. In a note from the Labour Party to the budget of the year, this has been taken up again. I regret that we have not received a majority for this comment, but I still hope that the Council of State will look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1371	The fast-moving "has been a heartchild of the Christian People's Party for many years," said Jan Sahl earlier today. And the attempt to make the Museum of Stokmarknes a national high-speed route museum was a dead end, he went on to say. He then thinks about Document No. The 8th proposal by the undersigned and some representatives of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Progress Party mentioned in the budget. I don't know how many debates I've had with Jan Sahl in the last year where he assured us that the Hurtigrutemuset would become a national museum, only the matter was dealt with and anchored in the Ministry of Transport. Then we get a happy solution," said Jan Sahl to NRK Nordland a year ago. We have received the proposal from the Ministry of Transport. The councils disagree that the Hurtigrutemuse should become national, as Jan Sahl has repeatedly assured us that it would be. The reason is worth noting: because through the years Hurtigruta has been run privately, not stately, it cannot become a national museum. In other words, if the state had owned OVDS, TFDS, Nordenfjeldske and Bergenske, it would have been natural to establish a national high-speed route museum. What the Council of State does not take on board is that the state has been entirely responsible for the economy, and has also determined the route pattern. Quick route is coast highway no. 1 and has had an invaluable impact on the history of the coast. Then there will be a downsizing and a downsizing of Hurtigruta's history when the majority of the population will not take on national responsibility, as the state does with railway history, with road history, with aviation history, with postal history, with telecommunications history. Jan Sahl said earlier today that the proposal is now parked. I can promise the representative it's not. SV will pursue this proposal further. The case is to be re-examined in the municipality of Nordland, and the proposal will then be re-examined. I am quite sure that when there is a broader debate on this issue, and when you become aware of the reason for going against doing the Museum at the Stokmarks national level, the proposal will come back to the Storting with increased strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1384	Part of the Committee's position also includes a Document No. Eight proposals on the plans for the closure of various traffic stations around the country. The majority of the Committee considers that a proposal for this type of closure is a good proposal and supports the fact that this Document No. The 8th proposal will not be dealt with in addition to the annex to the Minutes. The minority, including the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, are asking the Government to stop the Road Director's plans for the closure of the traffic stations. The background for this is different, but I emphasize that the function of these institutions not only is that these are stations that are randomly located around the country and without anchoring in the local environment. On the contrary, the precondition for these stations to function effectively and rationally is that they manage local experience and have a local anchoring, thus facilitating and better contributing to road safety work in different areas of which society as a whole will be part. In this context, I also stress that just such local institutions can play an active role in relation to kindergartens and schools as part of traffic training for young people. So the question is, is there a significant economic savings if you go into such closure as the Directorate of Roads has proposed? We're in doubt about that. In any case, what we have received today from knowledge about this proposal does not provide any guarantee that it is economically economical to implement it in 2005. That is why the second point in our motion for a resolution on the Great Britain is that it should be implemented today. «an impact assessment of the closure plans with a view to clarifying the impact on individuals, businesses, communities and road safety». It was my hope that there would be a decision about this. It doesn't look like it will. The only thing I can say, and which is a point in an attempt to catch the attention of the Progress Party, is that if there are different kinds of economics in this, it must be that as a consumer of these services by such reorganisation I will have to pay more than what I pay today, in addition to getting a significant extension of travel in order to obtain the services now offered through these traffic stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1398	The chairperson of the Committee, the representative, Petter Løvik, was not sparse in his description of the implementation of this government in the field of transport. A transport policy revolution, he described it as, a revolution that was then carried out within state budgets which he claimed had been tight to correct the Norwegian economy. Yes, that's how you can see it, when the government in this period has provided about 100 billion kroner more from the oil fund than the proper phase it was agreed four years ago, would say. Despite this very liberal use of oil revenues, appropriations for transport purposes have been 3.5 billion dollars lower during this period than the government parties thought was necessary before this period began and thus responsibility was taken into account. So the level that was far from enough in spring 2001 has become a ‘power cap’ – that’s what Løvik used – four years later. Either the representative Løvik has been known over the years, or the power expressions are an attempt to misunderstand the realities. Conversions and reorganisations are often necessary. But they must have a clear purpose and a good reason, and they must be implemented in a good way. An example of this is the entry for Norway. We've got a postal service that provides better services than before is more available than before, and now also seems to have a secure economic foundation for operations and future development. It should be rewarded by the owner with good ownership. Instead, the Government demands a dividend that is more than twice as high as it should be, undermining the Post Office's ability to develop the company as planned. These are tracks that should scare other production sites that are now going to become ASs and compete in a market. Are they also going to be dairy cows for a government that needs some extra hundreds of millions to get the budget to jump? I'm glad that there's a majority, albeit in a slightly different way, but nevertheless a majority, who in the vote signal that, in the development of the double-track railway through Eastfold, you have to build the track through Moss's centre first. It is important, and it is a follow-up to the assumptions underlying Eastfold Package 1. After this period there is a need for significantly higher appropriations for both road and, in particular, track. If the railway is to become an alternative for more than one, the bottlenecks in and through Oslo must be removed. It's in this region the railway has its big advantage, and this is where it can be the best option for the growing number of people who travel through the metropolitan area both two and more times a day. There is a 'Left stamp' on this budget, said the Council of State, but there is 'no reason to stop here'. No, there is a need for an even stronger bet in the next period, and it is the Workers' Party's intention to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1411	The centre party has been working for many years for appropriations for the Jondal Tunnel. We are pleased that it is now becoming a reality through the budgetary agreement. The Jondalstunnel is a fissure layer between municipalities, businesses, counties, the state and motorists, where the State contributes about 10 pst. The Jondal Tunnel opens up common training and employment opportunities in a region of about 30 000 people. The Jondal tunnel will connect the Folgefonn peninsula, which has many different and exciting qualities in travel life. It improves the competitiveness of business by reducing distance disadvantages. It gives a race-proof road Odda–Bergen, an important branch to link Bergen closer to E134 Haukeli, and it reduces travel time from Jondal to the local hospital in Odda by approx. an hour. The Jondal Tunnel will create a new era in the region and for Jondal. So to another thing: I want to refer to the comment from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party on page 71 of the setting, about the taxi industry, where these parties go against the Government's intention to further liberalise the taxi industry. There is already a lot of competition in the industry today. Several companies compete in the big cities, and the question that is timely is what further deregulation will lead to. The performance of the taxi industry is weak, the conditions for both taxi owners and drivers have deteriorated. The government wants further competition. I have to ask the Council of State if they know what they're doing when they want to remove today's need test, i.e. permission allocation, in an industry where performance is as weak as it is. The driver must drive for as long as it is irresponsible, in order to earn a useful monthly salary. I experienced the other day that the taxi driver slept on a trip from Flesland and home to Landås. I get a little worried when that happens, and I refer to an article in the Official Journal of Bergen on 6 December with the title «Anarchy in the taxi industry», which states that a taxi driver must work two years' work to have a salary equivalent to that of an industrial worker. I think that an industry that is so stressed already should be reviewed on a broad basis, given that we should be able to make it safer, improve quality and thus create the basis for a policy that gives industry predictability, facilitate serious actors and qualified drivers. It's actually passenger transport we're talking about. So the government's answer to this is a desire for freedom of establishment. I would ask the Council of State to reconsider once more before she starts further liberalisation, which will undermine serious actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1420	In this article, I must first visit something Odd Holten said in his article. He said that there was now a penetration for the City Ship Tunnel. I have noticed that in the Sunnmørspost of 25 November 2004, Holten says the same thing. ‘Clear signal from the Prime Minister’, also stated in the same issue of the Sunnmørspost. The Holten also says in the interview: ‘We have to look at the City Ship Tunnel as a heavy state facility.’ The Christian People's Party spokesman in Vanylven also has an announcement in the same number of the Sunnmørspost, and I quote: ‘Presentation clearance is the same as starting construction’. Based on this, we should think that it's just to put the spade in the ground when you've been able to work out the supply documents. These statements from the Christian People's Party will be interesting when we read the comments that the Christian People's Party is behind in the setting today. There's nothing about the City Tunnel as a state-owned facility. On the contrary, a regional project is being discussed. Furthermore, it has been said that the funds set aside should be used to clarify the basis for procurement. And to be careful, this isn't just about nuance differences, it's about difference in reality. The thousand-crowd question in this matter is whether the Christian People's Party believes the Christian People's Party representatives say in the media, or what they write in the comments in the settings. In my first post, I was in the railway works' conversions, but also in the Coastal Works there will be structural changes. The production part shall be distinguished as a limited liability company and all contracts shall be offered. It is a bit special in this case with the Swedish Coast Guard Agency that an external market and business analysis shows that there is a commercial basis for establishing the company, but the risk is high. In this context, an extra large share capital will be invested in order to allow the company to have funds for a transitional period. But it is clear that there will be a great deal of uncertainty for the company to be established in the future. As in other restructuring cases, production in the Coastal Plant is becoming redundant. The number of people added to the Coastal Works will be higher than 40. We get the exact same situation here that we've had in the other issues of restructuring, persuasive that faces a more uncertain future. The centre party is negative to the transformation of the Coastal Works Production into a limited liability company. We don't think it's going to give you the big prizes, as the majority say.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1443	Hedmark is a state entirely based on land transport, and road transport is crucial for the development of business and housing. We have the country's highest driving density, with as many registered vehicles as its inhabitants. We have a significant volume of transit with goods and passengers north, south, east and west, and we have the country's most remote name when we bring about. 12,000 miles of private roads. Unfortunately, for a number of years we have been on a national base in terms of the allocation of means of transport despite the increasing annual traffic. This is tragic, but unfortunately a reality, and one of the worst-silent roads is rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox It is therefore very gratifying that the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party resulted in a pot of 40 million. kr to just rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox About 370 trucks/cars drive Østerdalen every day. Every five cars in Rv. 3 is a heavier vehicle. As well as all the freight is going on here. The road is one of the largest jobs in the region. Maintenance and road standards are important for the health, environment and safety of professional drivers and, of course, also for other drivers. About 90 pst. by the vehicle combinations, the Østerdalen chooses over the Gudbrand valley because it is shorter and thus more profitable, both economically and environmentally. Row 3 is designated by Stortinget as a tribal road, but only 9 pst. by rv. 3 holds today's adopted tribal road standard, i.e. 8.5 m in width. The road surface is uneven and worn. The narrow and poor road leads to too many accidents. Between 1990 and 2000, 38 people died in Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox Soft road users are poorly secured along the narrow road. It is especially the professional drivers, who run through the whole of the Østerdalen, who are dissatisfied. The complaints increase with the dawn of darkness, and of course it is the worst in the middle of the night. In November it was different weather conditions and often problems. There will be waiting time and delays due to some traffic accidents. Winter maintenance of rv. 3 is often bad. Last winter, i.e. At the end of October, snow fell so much that some interpreted the road manager in Hedmark that she suggested the closure of rv. 3 because of large amounts of snow. This doesn't matter. The road service must be a positive guide to each and every one more offensively. It must not be on money in the case of winter maintenance on this particular road, and other roads for that matter. In the weekend that was, there was again the ice skating track on the rv. 3, with the result that many car combinations, buses and cars slipped off the road, with the expenses and frustration that resulted. People were asked to stay at home. You can then ask yourself where the road salt or sand was, so that a tribal road can be used. I think the Vegvesen did as good a job as possible with the resources they have. The question is whether the resources of such work are proportionate to the challenges posed by King Winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1463	I have followed the transport debate with interest today. Many main speakers have spent most of their speaking time telling about what is being done, and, for many, what is not done, in road transport, air transport and rail. Coastal challenges and opportunities in transport and transport are more sporadic and have received much less attention than this important transport year and transport sector deserves. The challenges on the coast are many. Vessels are increasing and the efficiency, logistics and interaction requirements between different modes of transport are increasing. This means that the development of transport and fishing ports must also be given greater attention in the coming years. In this context, it seems little creative for the Workers' Party representatives, with the good support of their red-green comrades, to criticize almost any form of efficiency. From my point of view, what is happening to the production of the Coastal Plant is unparalleledly positive. It releases resources, so we can produce more results and get more for the money. It is also positive for employees. They may, in particular, help to increase their own self-esteem and self-confidence by enabling them to participate in the competition and to win national and international competitions. So back to the summer when we dealt with the revised national budget. Perhaps the most congested theme that was up then was an Icelandic trawler named Gudrun Gisladottir, which was listed in Lofoten 2 and 1/2 years ago. In the proposition, this boat has got an interesting twist and description. It has been described as a potentially interesting research project both for environmental monitoring and for the creation of proactive fish houses. This has perspectives far beyond this one wreck. If this research project is carried out, it has a transfer value to others of our more than 2,000 shipwrecks along the coast, and not least in terms of the destruction of the oil platforms, which have served us for 30–35 years, now facing a phase of destruction. A problem can be an opportunity. This research project must start. We've already spent over 30 million. kr on this one shipwreck without getting results. This money does not have to be wasted, with the description that this research project has now received so far in the proposition, as a local initiative and in cooperation with the Marine Research Institute. I look forward with excitement to the feedback with which the Committee has asked the Council of State to come to Stortingen, on the continuation of the research project and on how this can be achieved, and not least on the results we hope to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1474	Several of the workers' party representatives today have told us about the great framework they have and have had in the past for transportation. What I have experienced, however, is that Østfold has not previously been put on the map in the way we have now experienced during this government and with the current Minister for Transport Skogsholm. But what has happened in Østfold when the Workers' Party has been in government – now last under the leadership of Stoltenberg and Moe Gustavsen? I think I can say that nothing happened in Eastfold at that time. That's the correct history description. In record time, Østfold has been cleaned up and is at full speed with the completion of E6 and E18. They get a civil aviation offer, which comes at Rygge, and there are things happening related to the expansion of NSB's project in Moss. It was crucial for me during the treatment of NTP to secure the 942 million. kr for the development of railway applications in the first period. We did it. Unfortunately, it was not possible to bring the Mosse project into line because of the cost framework. What we are now aiming at is to obtain clarification, economic and technical, from the Railway Agency, so that the Mosse project can, if possible, be speeded up and replaced in relation to the Haug-Onsøy project. We're waiting, and I hope we get a plant start in Moss after a new investigation, an investigation that must lead to a significant improvement for this city community.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1483	As a member of the Committee on Transport in the previous period, I was involved in the handling of the first national transport plan. I'm glad to see that we've had an impact in the Cooperation Board for the Left's priorities from that management. I record that the representative Gunn Olsen does not recognise the Left, but I know very well what the Government has presented. That's good left policy. We wanted more collective action. That was the best thing for the environment. We wanted security to always be first priority, and so have we. We thought that the possibility of turning different state-owned etats into AS and letting them compete for assignments would give users better services. It has also happened. During this ageing period, the proceeds of collective action have increased by approximately NOK 4 billion. This has provided better quality, better route provision, cheaper tickets, and the number of users travelling collectively has increased. For the Left, security is the most important thing. Before all our trades, there is an increase in the scope of insurance measures. This applies to increasing the licenses to maritime lease guarantees, increasing the licenses to race protection and repairing our most unfortunate route, increasing the licenses to take precautions at our airports, and not least allowing for the removal of dangerous level crossings and new train radio connections. So, to the issue of competitive exposure. Is this dangerous? The development of our welfare community is about looking at new ways to solve our welfare tasks. In connection with the development of e.g. new technologies must also reform the public sector, giving more of the resources we use. It's the users we have to think about first and first of all, and what they're going to be offered. I'm surprised that the Socialist Left Party, which wants to market itself as a radical party, until they grade in such issues, is erkkonservative. The Labour Party is talking about the fact that they have put much more money in their draft budget and in the proposal for a national transport plan. Then I would like to remind you that at the last session of the National Transport Plan, when the Labour Party presented its first State budget, it was less than what they had foreseen in the National Transport Plan, and much less than what the Labour Party in this Chamber provided. The Socialist Left Party was able to win a media competition if the government party and the Progress Party did not give priority to using the budgetary agreement to bet at night and to Stockholm. Then we can only remind ourselves of what is in the Progress Party's budget. I am pleased that we have gained additional permissions here for a road project. So finally, as a representative of the hordes, I want to draw up the Jondal Tunnel project. There is a project that the Left has fought for since the addition to the large county road project was incorporated into the big pot – a fantastic project, which bind Hardanger better together with Mid-Hordaland and provides a shorter route to Bergen for everyone who lives in the southern part of Hardanger. It opens up a new housing and labour market in this region. With the state's contribution, the first contribution is made, and I hope that the rest comes next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1506	What made me take the floor was the representative of Bjørgulf Froyn's tirating about the beautiful place Fauske, which the president knows well. E6 goes from Svinesund to Kirkenes. This route is largely located outside the centre or secured by passing through the centre at locations with 10000 inhabitants or more. That is why the Party for Progress has presented a Document No. 8-proposal to secure a four-field road from Svinesund to Trondheim and two-field highway from Trondheim to Kirkenes. If the representative Froyn had taken the time to explore this long-range country and, for example, Drived the E6 from Svinesund to the Churches, he would discover that one of the first places you would get to where there was no built road outside the center or secured through the center, would be exactly the place for which we have suggested a solution. It probably has not been brought with it, so he would probably have promoted the same proposal that we have made. I hope he could have done so with the support of the representative, Torny Pedersen. The Progress Party wants to solve all the problems that the heavily trafficked E6 brings with it, throughout this country. We want to put an end to all the accidents that are here, and give a boost to the burdens that business pays for by a poor road standard. Unfortunately, Froyn is not so very interested in it. Then the representative Froyn complains that Oslo does not get his own. I understand from the calculation he suggested, that Oslo has got 3 billion dollars too little. I agree with the representative Froyn that Oslo has had too little. They've received far too little government funding. But why is that so? Well, that's precisely because the representative Froyn has voted against any proposal to give more money to Oslo. The fact that he then went up to the pulpit and complained that you have not received the money is incomprehensible to me. It is possible that the representative Froyn does not care so much about the traffic problems that are outside the center of Oslo. That's what the Progress Party does. We want to solve the problems for this entire long-range country. If the representative Froyn has a desire to solve the problems in Oslo, he must vote in favour of the Stortingen proposals to solve these problems. The representative Froyn has consistently not done so. Then you won't get a solution to them either. The representative Froyn has also not made any proposals to solve the traffic problems that Oslo has. On the day on which the representative Froyn does so, the Progress Party shall vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1519	I find it rather alarming that in this debate there has been so much negativity and blackness from the speakers of the Workers' Party. Also in these Christmas seasons they seem unable to rejoice over everything that is positive. Not least this applies to two of my colleagues on the eastern fold bench, the representatives Signe Øye and Svein Roald Hansen. It's a lot to enjoy. The four-field E6 through Østfold will be completed in 2008. It is open to civil aviation from Rygge, and it is set at a higher pace in the development of E18. Have the representatives Signe Øye and Svein Roald Hansen totally forgotten that the Stoltenberg government, which was fired by the voters in 2001, failed to get a better decision in place than the four-field E6 through Østfold being completed in 2016 or 2017 at the earliest? I just have to ask. So a few words about the further development of the railway through Østfold. In the Committee's position, it is quite clear to the Minister for Transport that a different priority is sought in relation to the order of the projects that are under way, namely that the Mosse tunnel must come before the Haug-Onsøy Parselle. This is a very important environmental project, not least to ensure that more of the traffic can be shifted from trailer traffic to rail transport to and from the important industrial establishments in the Mosse region. I ask the Minister of Transport to notice this and come back with a project that shows how it is possible to put the Mossetunnel project in place within a cost framework of approx. 940 million. kr. So a few words about the debate related to the railway works’ production activities and the outsourcing of competition. In this debate, a number of speakers from the Labour Party have made the claim that 1,000 employees are losing their jobs. What kind of attitude is this? What kind of attitude is this to the employees who work there today? Well, there's obviously an attitude that is characterized by zero trust and zero belief that the employees of this business have any chance of competing. I think it is alarming that the Royal Norwegian Labour Party adopts such an attitude towards the employees in this business. Here are the things to be done only in 2009. You give good time to change. In the NRK Østfold, experiences from Sweden are reported today, where the railway lines are still owned by the state, but where private companies compete for everything from cutting grass and clearing snow to repairing signalling systems and tracks. Banverket has saved 15-20 pst. On. We only have good experience with competition," says Kjell-Åke Averstad in Banverket's eastern railway region. It is also worth including in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1530	What is happening in the transport sector at the moment? We note that the government's ideology of competitive outsourcing and privatisation has now gone so far that also important security and preparedness functions are exposed to competition. The production activities of the State Road Administration have become Mesta AS, the Aviation Administration of Avinor AS, Posten Norge BA and NSB BA have been converted into limited liability companies and, as if not enough, it is proposed to launch the Railway Agency. But what about security? Now we're going to freak me out to drive a train too! What's the point? Is it not important to take care of the safety, competence and knowledge of state enterprises? Many probably thought that a government council from the Left would give the railway a real boost – but unfortunately. The working party is occupied by train offers. I will mention the route Oslo–Stockholm and ask that it be maintained after 1 January 2005. In August, the Minister for Transport established contact with the Swedish Government, and she should be commended for that. But it kind of didn't make any sense. The working party will point out that the railway is the most environmentally friendly travel option. And by comparison, if today's train passengers between Oslo and Stockholm were transferred to aircraft, this would result in an increase in greenhouse gas emissions of 25 000 passenger cars. Step Skei Grande said on TV that it was not possible to find $25 million. kr to save the train between Oslo and Stockholm. I am very happy and grateful to the representatives of the Workers' Party on the Transport Committee that they managed to raise the transport budget by NOK 1 billion. I would also like to thank the Progress Party for supporting them on the road side. In Hedmark we need much more than trains. In that context, I think it is good that it was added to so much on the road budget that rv. 3 can be rusted up. But we also need to support the development of RV. 2 and start the E6 accident. I don't know about that, but I'm asking the Minister of Transport to take time out, as Director Flesland said in Avinor, in terms of efficiency and outsourcing. It's actually like we want to drive collectively, but it has to be safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1543	The representative, Geir-Ketil, expressed his disappointment at the fact that not the proposal for which he was the proposer, is the position of the majority here today. Let me now say that Geir-Ketil Hansen and SV have a genuine commitment to the Hurtigrutemuseet. It also has a Christian People's Party, and I think most parties here in the Chamber have a genuine commitment to taking care of Hurtigruta's history. But the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen tried to make a quick decision to make the Hurtigrutemuset a permanent museum under the Ministry of Transport without prior costing the table. After some work in the committee, the majority of the government decided to pay the costs, and when they got on the table, the majority broke. I assume that there is some reason why the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen's disappointment today, and that he attached a great deal to my name. Let me put it this way: we've had more debates both in the NRK Nordland and in the newspapers, but I've never hidden the fact that there's a splinter layer to save the Hurtigrutemuseet at Stokmarknes. At the same time, there is also a happy day today, for the first time we've been offered some money to start repairs on the boat, NOK 5 million, while the total amount of money we're talking about here is an amount of 100 million. kr. Then I have to say it doesn't help with the 10 million. kr that SV has entered in its alternative budget, where they were not willing to spend any money within the framework adopted by the Storting. It has to be completely different amounts in place. It is now a constructive matter that we have put in place, that the county of regional development is given responsibility for taking the lead in a committee where different departments are going to be involved, where private interests are going to be involved, and then we get the matter back to Stortinget. My and Christian People's Party's commitment is still that through a fissure layer where the state is also involved, we should save both the boat and the museum at Stokmarknes. Then I hope that SV and the Christian People's Party can be together about it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1554	President! Can I get the word to correct a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1561	The representative can sign up on the list of speakers, and then you can get the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1565	Let me repeat what I have said before today about a fundamental agreement between me and the Railway Agency. The railway is and must be a safe means of emergence. The launching of the works of production of the Railway Agency shall not impair the safety of the railway. That's what's fundamentally at the bottom of what we're doing. When we continue to work on this both in the Railway Agency and in the Department, this is going to be the assumption all the way. It is unclear to me whether it is intentional or unintentional when someone tries to present it as if we are privatising the railway network, that we are privatising the railway network and the railway network. No, we don't. I have registered the proposal to turn the Railway Agency into a company. I don't want to be a part of it, because it's fundamentally important, I think, that the state has control over, overview and responsibility for both the operation of the network and the safety of the network. Then it is important that we cultivate the role of the Railway Agency as responsible for the management of this network. I will again stress that I do not want to be part of a privatisation of the web at all. Then I would like to comment on what has been said about the Workers' Party not being able to see the railway bet for this government or for my party, Left. Then they must have followed poorly, because the appropriations for the railway are a lot higher now than they were under the government that was before us. Then it's not just about preserving the organisation we have within the railway sector. I have to say that I'm also a little surprised by SV's analysis of the Left as a liberal party. Here I experience SV as conservative, in that sense unlikely preserving. 150 years ago should we have decided to keep the railway as it was, for whatever it should be? No, we need to keep up with the challenges we face at all times. It's dynamic. There is environmental awareness, and there is a commitment to public transport that means that the Left is involved. We're not allowed to sit and watch that we don't follow in time and align our business with the challenges we're facing. That's why Left is 100 pst. I'm going to add to this right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1576	Geir-Ketil Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark – while Hurtigrutemuseet is still hot.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1579	I ask for the word just because it must not stand, as Jan Sahl said, that SV has not prioritised the Hurtigrutemuse within the reduced framework that the government parties' fraction and the Progress Party arrived at. We were prioritizing, with five million. kr within the framework. I just want to stress that the 10 million. kr we originally proposed, should not solve the problems until next year. But we see, of course, that this should be solved over a longer period of time, which would be the natural thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1586	Then we've got it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1589	The Norwegian people have also noticed today that there are two blocks in Norwegian policy, especially in relation to what is happening on the transport side now, with the government parties and the Progress Party on the one hand. Even today, the Party of Advancement frees the government parties to enter the Government. I'm 100 pst. sure of one thing: after the election you will do everything you can to keep the blue block – or, to call it that – the black coal block. It's going to be even blueer than it is today. I also believe that Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik will swallow a camel, maybe two, when that time comes. What happens on the transport side is at least a warning to the Norwegian people, and also what is going to happen in other areas. Then I'll make a clarification. I was a little quick in terms of the Hurtigrutemuseet, because there was little time. In the case of Hurtigrutemuseet, we in the Labour Party refer to our budget, where we propose, and we think we have the best proposal, ten million. kr to Hurtigrutemuseet. We assume that these means are used for temporary measures to stop the decommissioning of the ‘Old Finnmark’ high-speed craft. The Labour Party will also stress that further state funding in the future will depend on the existence of clear plans both for long-term financing and for new buildings. We assume that there is a local solution for the financing of half of the overall framework of about Ninety million. kr and that the State will be able to contribute a maximum of 50 pst. of the total framework. We in the Workers' Party assume that before a grant of 10 million. kr shall be transferred, a total financing plan for the project shall be in place. We think it's most neat to do it that way. We're going to enjoy the little things, and today we have one thing from the Workers' Party to rejoice over. It's that we're running a fast-track museum. Something else we don't have to enjoy so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1600	Railway policy is a hot topic during the day. Although I have also asked questions about, among other things. The work and accountability of the Railway Agency, I am very surprised at the performance of the Minister of Transport in the last few days. A theme that is not of a new date in railway policy is the Rørosbanen and its future. The Minister of Transport's view of this public transport section has been little visible and little constructive thinking, I think, despite the fact that the Left is a railway party. The view of the Right and the Advance Party has been the most prominent and dominant – it is known that it prefers to build down this route and lay it there for the lion's tooth and for the crest. I think it is also prominent in terms of budgetary priorities, and that the railway policy of the left seems to be in poor condition in this government. My message is to upgrade the Røros Railway in terms of both freight and passenger transport. When we know that 80-90 pst. of heavy transport from North Norway and Mid Norway by car. 3, one should do something and think of two thoughts at the same time as regards road safety there. If this route is to be made safer and better, heavy goods transport must be more on rail, while it is important to rv. 3 gets rusted up for the car traffic that will nevertheless be increasing. I think, moreover, that a forward-looking transport policy will be that more of the goods that are going to leave the country must be on rails and keel, we must be competitive on the foreign market. Winter maintenance and road safety on rv. 3 was affected earlier in the debate. I will also link some comments to maintenance and road safety. In my municipality and in my district, we have received a telephone number that we should call if we need to point out that the maintenance is poor. Those who accept that phone are 25 miles away from Engerdal. It shall then be notified that it must now be sprinkled; it must now be done in order for the road to be as it should be. Closeness and overview have been lost with the restructuring undertaken by the majority here, and the rapid outreach due to local knowledge is also gone. On several occasions in the last few weekends, I have even marked it on these sections that we have before we can go to public transport services. Most of the time, unfortunately, when it comes to maintenance and control, ‘most customs’, I think, in dialect. County roads and gravel roads are another problem, not least in the county from which I come, Hedmark. That is why it is important, as the Central Party has pointed out for years, and also put into budgetary context, that the county councils are being prepared financially, so that they have the opportunity to do something with all these miles of poor-standard county road that has no fixed cover. The Central Party has taken the consequences of this year's government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1615	I am happy when the Council of State says that the transformation of the Railway Works will not be released on security. I would like her to make sure that if this turns out to be uncertain, leave it alone. If what I'm saying is true, why couldn't a person evaluate this in advance? Why couldn't a person have taken the consequences in advance, instead of adding 1,000 and their families to games, in a pre-Christmas period? So the state council says this isn't privatisation. Yes, it's a game of words. This is the privatisation of the tasks of the Railway Undertaking Operation. They're going to cancel 1,000. Some ends because they're going to retire, most of them going to retire. Then one first has to pay people to stop. Then you have to pay some new ones in the private sector to do the job, and then you have to have a few extras on the authority page to do the job of putting out competition, in the short term, two and a half-double, maybe, of the costs. And this calls a rationalization. So take the money from investments on the railway that we don't have too much, but too little. So a couple of questions. I've been very confused in this debate about what a really mean by BaneService AS. BaneService has now been a project organisation that has operated on large projects. Now you talk as if BaneService should be running. There is no word in our paper about BaneService operating and maintaining the railway. If it was the premise, it would have been an advantage that the Storting knew that one was in a transformation that meant that BaneService should not be a project organisation anymore, but an operating organisation. Even if we come back to it in Odelstinget, I have to ask why it is that the Coast Guards have said that they should retain the pension schemes for five years, unless a single board votes for something else, while the Railway Agency says that they should retain the pension scheme, unless the board says otherwise. I assume that there is a certain degree of non-discrimination, although there are two different government councils. So is it the last unanswered question – and most importantly, when the plurality in this room now decides that the Railway Works will be put off for competition, why in all the world are they not allowed to compete for their assignments, as the State Council Ludvigsen said they would be allowed to do in the Coastal Agency, and as they have done in the Road Service? What's the difference? I feel that there is something hidden in this case, because there has not been a single argument for why not the Railway Works Operation can be allowed to compete for the tasks on the same lines as the Most AS does, and as the Production AS Coastal Works will do?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1628	The representative Odd Holten pointed out – rightly – that much has happened in Eastfold during this period, and as he said, unlike in the past. I think we're all going to admit that it has its history in our own home state, which was a little too late to accept toll financing. Had we accepted this earlier in Eastfold, I think it would have happened more before. But I've given flowers in the past, and I'd like to do it again, to the Minister of Transport, because she's shown her willingness to give priority to the tribal road through Eastfold, especially E6, although it's still a little bit unclear how fast we're finishing E18. But it's a little funny, because her party colleagues in Eastfold write articles in the newspapers where they point out that the Left has fought through this redundancy. It seems like there's been a hard fight in the government, even though it doesn't sound like this when we hear Martin Engeset or at Odd Holten here in the hall. But no matter how the internal struggle has been, it's actually like this, even though it doesn't always seem like you recognize it, that this government doesn't have a majority in this room. Some partners need it to be adopted in order for what it proposes to be adopted. So in the case of Eastfold, the Workers' Party has been involved in securing a majority for the joyous thing that has happened. The party of progress, which is the parliamentary basis of the Government, is opposed to bombs, and the Socialist Left believes that there are a little too few cars on the E6 for four fields to be needed. I think maybe there's a reason to remind you that the government has proposed some red tape on E6 and now a little bit on E18, we're happy, but it's been necessary to have a few more votes than the government parties in order to have a majority in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1635	There are now three speakers who have drawn themselves into three-minute posts. If there are any others who intend to sign, the President will cancel this morning's meeting now and start the afternoon's meeting at noon. 18 with these three. If, on the other hand, only the three mentioned have signed up, we can finish the case no. 1 and 2 at this morning's meeting. – No objections have been raised to this, and we continue this morning’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1640	I think this has been a very exciting debate, actually of the better we've had in the committee for these four years. There have been a lot of policies, but there have also been some significant misunderstandings that I feel there is reason to clarify and comment a little, lately in Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt's post. I am going to focus on what is going on at the Railway Agency/BaneService, and just say a little about what is really going on, and why it happens. The background to what we're doing is that Norwegian railways have been neglected for decades. We've decided that, just like in the road sector, we're going to give the railway sector a lift. We've raised the promises from the last Stoltenberg year, 2001 to the next year by well over 1 billion. It's in fixed dollars, i.e. in 2005 dollars. There's a completely necessary premise to get to this. The second thing we do is to strengthen and clarify the country's role as owner – as owner of the railway network, controller of security, inspector when it applies to everything that goes on the management part itself. We have to get this together at the Railway Agency – which of course still has to be state-owned. There is no one I know in Norway, who has proposed to privatise the railway network, or the Railway Agency. The third element – and that is what we are dealing with today – is what goes on the production itself outside. There may be investments, there may be maintenance and other practical tasks that do not involve control or security. We will now allow BaneService to compete with others about. We transform BaneService into a limited liability company, and BaneService will have the full opportunity to expand its business area, to take up other tasks than those that they absolutely have today, as Starrfelt talks a little about. There has been a strange claim from the Railway Federation, which I have heard several times today, and which Starrfeld repeated. It won't be any more correct for that reason. It's that those who are working on this today are not allowed to compete. Surely they will be allowed to compete! It is only that they cannot compete as part of the owners and controllers. The railway works, which are to control production, cannot compete simultaneously with others in this respect. But there is no problem in organizing this so that those who work on this in the future will be able to compete with and compete, but then before BaneService or other companies. Fuzzy perceptions about this are a bit of the background for the misunderstandings we've had here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1653	When you repeat a confusion, it doesn't get less confusing. Let me try to take seriously what the representative Løvik and the council say. So if we were to transfer it to aviation, we would have to divide Avinor into a part that controlled, cared for and planned, and a part that ran. Maybe we'll get a new case back in another split by Avinor? This is an innovation of an argument. And this vocabulary that the railway works should not be privatised – I think it illustrates a point that I believe neither the representative Løvik nor the Council of State have understood. It is that the railway station is not the rails, it is not the technical equipment, it is not the installations around the country either. The railway system is an organisation made up of people, and the safety of the railways depends on the knowledge in the minds of the people who work there. That's the way it is in Avinor, in aviation. The safety of air depends on the culture and competence of employees. If we don't manage that safety culture properly, we'll weaken it, both in aviation and on the railways. I think it's surprising that you haven't learned a little bit more from the situation we're currently in in aviation. Even representatives of the Government and representatives of the Government Parties have admitted in this Chamber that it is not good that all these changes in aviation take place at the same time. Then it's totally incomprehensible to me that we're going to repeat that failure in terms of the railway. Train traffic must be put out for competition and the railway works must be put out for competition, built down and slaughtered. This is not a good railway policy for the future. But what is most incomprehensible to me is why this should be done at such a pace that we have not even had time to assess the consequences of the decisions to be taken today before they are to be adopted. We would have had excellent time to do that if one wanted the railway well. Then we would have had plenty of time to carry out a risk assessment and an impact assessment, as the railway law also requires, if we were to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1665	I would like to refer to Mr Løvik's post, which is quite correct. What we're doing on the railway can be equated quite well with what we've done on the road side. I registered that the representative Sørensen pointed out that this was very different from what we do in aviation, and that she was skeptical of what we have done there. It can be better compared to what we do in the road sector. We have the State Road Service as the manager of the infrastructure on the road side, and we have Mesta and others doing the missions. On the railway, it becomes the Railway Agency that is the manager, the builder and the orderer, and it will be the BaneService and others who will be the ones who carry out the job. When it comes to the question of whether this is privatisation, I would like to take an example: When you come to a time when you choose to clean up the Storting, and hire entrepreneurs, painters and electricians to do the job, have you privatized the Stortinget? I want to say that maybe you don't have it. That is what my attitude towards the Railway Agency is in this context. There is talk of good organisation of work, where safety must be at the bottom. I also think there has been an exciting debate today. What we're doing in the railway sector now, which has received a lot of attention, deserves a lot of attention, because if we're going to renew the railway and give it a boost, it's important that we use the resources we have, in a sensible way. It's important that we have a debate on security, and that we focus on how we can achieve the best possible security, it's in the air, it's on the sea, it's on the road, and it's on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07.ana.ud735e1674	It is quite right in that, in that case, it would not be a privatisation of the Stortinget. But if you put the cleaning out on tenders, you privatize the problems. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1 and 2. The morning's meeting is thus late. [[See page 847]] We'll start with the case number. 3 and 4 o'clock. 18th@item: inlistbox
