ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e34	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e54	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that up to three lines be given with replies from the main speakers of each group and following contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e63	First, I want to give the proposers a boost for putting the search light on such a serious matter. It is this way, as the proposers correctly point out, that ten men killed their current or former partners last year. In several of these cases, there was a common child. Under the legislation of today, the surviving spouse, i.e. the killer, automatically taking over the child’s parental rights. It's not hard to say that this is completely horrible. The intention of the proposal is, of course, supported. When the majority of the committee decides to attach this matter to the minutes, it has its background in the fact that it may be appropriate to judge, but you have to know what you judge. There may be some intersections here that need to be further elucidated, namely self-defense, all of the legal concerns that we want to have clarified. I'm not going to pull out this debate for a long time, but I just want to stress that it's a very important matter. It is so important that it is not suitable for examination and final decision on the basis of only one Document No. Eight proposals. It must be illuminated legally, so that all sides can be identified. In this respect, I would like to point out that such matters are particularly bad where there are children in the picture. The majority have agreed that this matter is annexed to the protocol, and would like it to return to Stortingen for a broader review.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e79	That's exactly what it's all about. It is on the basis of that and unfortunately it seems to be an increasing tendency for one of the parents to kill the other, that the Progress Party has chosen to promote this proposal to change the Children's Act so that, while judging a killer, one also takes away from him the right to care for his children. So now I don't mean, and I have to clarify it, to say that there are only fathers who kill mothers. I could use a better name, but it became very long and difficult wordings. There are several reasons why this should be a natural consequence of a killing. The most important reason is, of course, the child, who knows that he should return and live and live with one of the parents who killed the other. This could be a heavy pressure on the child or youth waiting for the surviving parent to be released. There is great uncertainty and disquiet whether the child is 7 or 17 years old. I know a girl who just before the release of her father escaped several hundred miles away from Norway, because she couldn't get the idea of living with the killer of her mother. For us in the Progress Party, it is very important that children can grow up in a safe and predictable environment. The second reason we're promoting the proposal is that it should be totally unnecessary for grandparents who want to take care of a child after a killing to have to fight a killer to get it. It is both a thrilling and certainly a bad experience for those concerned. When there are grandparents who want to give their children safe and healthy breeding conditions, it is both stressful, painful and pointless to meet the killer in court and fight for care. We see from the answer from Davøy that the government is dealing with a matter of this issue. We have also heard that Bavøy supports the proposal itself, but will make its own proposition. It's great, but I still can't understand why you couldn't join our proposal, which is both well-worked and well-thought-out. Then we had escaped that the matter had been drawn out in time. There are actually several cases of this kind that are going up in the judiciary in the near future, and then it would be nice if you had had this law change in place. It's not a matter that needs so many consultation rounds. It's probably about what's best for the child, and what's general legal opinion, and then I think the answer gives itself. With this, I would like to promote our proposal to amend the Children's Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e92	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has looked forward to the proposal she referred to. The next speaker is Jan Arild Ellingsen. No, Councillor Laila Davøy gets the floor. The President regrets the confusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e97	I would first like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Stortinget is involved in the issues such as this Document No. The 8-proposal travels. More tragic family conflicts have recently ended with killing, and attention has rightly been paid to the situation in which a parent who has caused the death of the other parent automatically receives parental responsibility for the children. It does not feel right that, in an already tragic situation, relatives have to go to court in order for the surviving parent to be denied parental responsibility. Paragraph 38 of the Children’s Act regulates two different situations today. In one situation, survivors have shared in parental responsibility before death and will thus also maintain it only at the death of the other. The second case concerns the situation in which both parents lived with the child before death, but only the deceased had parental responsibility. Survivors will then automatically transfer parental responsibility to themselves. It's this issue the Progress Party is taking up, as I understand it. As the Storting is well known, a working group has presented a report proposing measures to protect children from abuse. One proposal in the report deals with the amendment of the Children’s Act on Parental Liability in cases where one of the parents causes the other’s death. Where one of the two cohabiting and biological parents has no parental responsibility and at the same time is intended for the death of the other, the working group goes in to remove the current provision on automatic acquisition of the parental right. The proposal is to reverse the legal burden, so that the surviving parent in such a case has to sue in order to assume parental responsibility. I agree with that. In those cases where surviving parents share parental responsibility before death, the working group did not wish to propose changes. The working party has shown that there is a significant difference between depriving someone of a right they already have and not granting a new right. Following the assessment of the working group, it would be too intrusive to take away from a parent his or her parental responsibility in which he or she is already involved, without legal proceedings and judgment. In my view, there is a need to take a closer look at this situation as well. It is necessary to consider whether surviving parents who have taken part in parental responsibility may be deprived of it in a simpler way than is the case today if they have killed the other parent. However, it should not be underestimated that there are complex issues and different situations. This could be done, for example, by: think that the victim of the killing is found to be free because of emergencies, that the deceased has been subjected to years of abuse or that the killing is a ‘accident case’. The importance of the child’s consideration must be crucial. It might seem different in different situations. We must avoid creating a new regulatory framework that creates new unfair situations that could harm the child. The report and the consultation opinions of the working group will form the basis for further legislative development. I want to put forward a bill that best suits the child's interests and at the same time takes into account that the relatives are not subjected to unreasonable pressures that are contrary to the general sense of law in society. I think it is important to follow the usual stages of the legislative work before the final conclusion. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee will await the Ministry's motion for a resolution on changes to the Children's Act before the Stortinget amends the law on parental responsibility after death. The proposal will come into her mind before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e120	It's going to be line change. No – Jan Arild Ellingsen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e125	The intention was not to confuse the president further, but to try to get an article. I should first like to thank the case rapporteur for his honor in relation to the intention, and at least we will not disagree on it. I really appreciate that. What is paradoxical in today's legislation is that in the ultimate sense, we actually pay for the most serious crime we have, namely that one of the parents kills the other and as a bonus, if I can say so, gets to take over the parental right. It is paradoxical in today's legislation, at my discretion. Then I have seen with great satisfaction that the Council of State will take hold of this and show the power of action. Then I find it sad to hear from the Council when she stands here and says that there are many issues that need to be taken into account, so we have to wait for the proposition. At my discretion, you could already have done something about it. You could have grabbed hold of today's legislation. The proposal could have been adopted here, and then the committee could have said something about its reservations and concerns, which could be included in the form of regulations. Then the Council of State is also concerned that there may be specific cases. There may be abuse or other factors that make it impossible to draw a bastant conclusion. Then it is that either the Council of State does not trust the judiciary, or we have a disagreement about understanding. I thought it was such that when Stortinget passed a law, it was up to the court to exercise discretion through its understanding and interpretation of the law. It is clear that if there are particular reasons behind this, it is possible to derogate from a law firm. That's why the court is there and has to exercise its discretion. So there should have been no problem. Another thing I think is a little sad about this case, is that this again shows the Storting's inability to act in pact with what you mean outside here. I think most people are being provoked by the matter that is now being dealt with in Bergen. I think they're blaming a grandfather for having to go through courtrooms to keep the parental right over the person who killed the daughter and the mother of the child. I think people are struggling to see the logic that the Storting can't show the power of action and say it shouldn't be like that, because this is unreasonable. But we don't. We'll wait, we'll see, and we'll wait. At least I realize that people are being provoked. It would have been tempting to say that perhaps it is that this is now becoming a kind of political game where the most important thing is to take out a political gain, not the content of the case. I hope it's not like that. I hope that it is the general intention of the Council of State to do the best possible job, not that the Christian People's Party should score a point in a time that is otherwise tough for any one of us. For that matter, the matter is far too serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e140	It is clear that the previous speaker does not know the procedure in this case. A working group has had this mandate, given by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, precisely with the intention of doing something in relation to these matters. But it's about two different relationships. In one case that the Progress Party brings up here today, it is true that one does not want a parent to assume parental responsibility that you have not previously had, often in connection with a cohabitation. My intention is to present a law that also takes care of the second piece, namely that if a parent has parental responsibility today and causes the death of the other, we cannot automatically deprive this person of what he already has. It's a little more complicated according to the lawyers who have been working on this. The working group that has worked on this matter has also said that there is a difference in substance, and they came to the conclusion that it was too intrusive to deprive a parent of his parental responsibility, without legal proceedings and judgment. I disagree with that. That is why I also want to do something about this matter, and so I come back to Stortinget with a proposal. So I get a little upset. We've been working on the Department's side for a long time. The proposals are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e151	I just want to clarify something, because it shouldn't be left with the impression that the majority doesn't want to do anything. But take a thoughtful case: one parent acts in self-defense, but it ends in killing. Should not the parent who has acted in self-defense have the right to his children? That's one example. There may be more. I'm not a lawyer, so I can't comment on this. That's why it's so infinitely important that we now get this really illuminated. I don't think anyone in this room would want to do anything for the sake of the children, who always gets sacrificed. We want that, we want to do something, but we have to do it right, so that we don't get lost and hit without thinking well through this. I am confident that the Dörum Council of State will now meet together and find out a way and then come back to Stortinget with a broad review of this matter, so that we can get a result that we can stand up with, and that actually protects the children who are going into such an unscrupulous situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e159	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e174	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 48]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e182	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e189	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e373	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09-lower.ana.ud2090e383	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
