ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e51	From His Royal Highness The Crown Prince's Regent, the President of the Storting has received the following message: “It is with great pleasure that I announce that The Crown Princess and I have got a daughter on 21 January 2004 at 2.30 p.m. 0913. The child's title and name is Her Royal Highness Princess Ingrid Alexandra." This communication shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. On behalf of the Grand Duchy, the President will also express his warmest congratulations to the Crown Princess and the Crown Prince as well as to the other royal family. Of course, a birth in the directly inheritable line of the throne is also a national event. As everyone has recorded, much has been reported in the various media in Norway and has been met with great joy. The President of the Grand Duchy will also express the hope that the princess will have an upsurge and a future that will delight the parents, the other family and of course the best for the Norwegian people, and hopes the Grand Duchy can join in these congratulations. The representatives Siri Hall Arnøy, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and Heikki Holmås, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: From the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative Leif Lund from 27 January onwards. From the European Parliament’s delegation to the 2004 session of the Council of Europe, Part One, in Strasbourg, an application has been made, signed by the Head of the Delegation, the Grand Representative of Haakon Blankenborg. That application concerns the period from 27 January to 29 January of the representatives of Olav Akselsen, André Kvakkestad, Per Erik Monsen, Jorunn Ringstad and Elsa Scarbøvik, and on 27 and 28 January of the representatives of Haakon Blankenborg and Øystein Djupedal. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Harald EspelundFor Hordaland County: Rita Tveiten and Pål BerberfjordFor Uppland County: Reidun GravedahlFor Sogn and Fjordane counties: Liv Signe NavarseteFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Jørund LeknesFor Vestfold County: Inger Møll and Vidar Andersen3. Pål Berberfjord and Inger Møll are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Leif Lund and Elsa Skarbøvik respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e150	Rita Tveiten, Pål Berberfjord, Liv Signe Navarsete, Jørund Leknes, Inger Møll and Vidar Andersen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e155	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Tuesday and Wednesday – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e160	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e165	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e177	In the time of the Cold War, as a result of our exposed position, it was not difficult to get understanding and support from our close friends and allies. Today, the situation has changed radically. We no longer appear to be threatened, but as a privileged race in one of the world's calmest corners. The competition for hearing from the outside world has become considerably tougher – in a way fortunate. But our need for good and responsive covenants has not diminished. On the contrary, we have experienced time and again that successful networking is absolutely necessary in order to gain understanding and understanding of our views and interests. And we've also experienced the opposite: how hard it can be to negotiate in a situation where evenness isn't exactly the keyword that first runs you in the brain. We're facing challenges that make having good connections, having a network of values and interests, often make up the difference between success and failure. Mutuality is a keyword in network construction. In order to maintain and strengthen solidarity with nations that can make a difference to us, we must contribute ourselves in areas that matter to them. We need to make it visible that Norway is ready to set up, and that we are thus a useful and valuable partner. Our commitment to peace processes, participation in peacekeeping and stabilisation operations, our work for human rights, our extensive humanitarian efforts and assistance can also be seen in such a perspective. We need to be good and reliable partners for our closest ones, and we decide where and how. Our contributions – as well as our strong support for the UN – reflect a strong Norwegian willingness to take responsibility, and that we have clear interests in working for a world based on committed international cooperation, international law and freedom from distress and dissatisfaction. And: Our international contributions are not least an expression of a basis of values that means that if we can help other people get a safer and more worthwhile life, we simply have a duty to do so. 60,000 people have been killed in the conflict in Sri Lanka. Of course, if Norwegian efforts can make a difference, there is a good enough reason to contribute. But it also gives access to Norway as a diplomatic contributor that matters. Norwegian foreign policy is thus designed to serve both direct and indirect national interests and, in particular, our political and moral common obligations. One doesn't rule out the other. We are now at the time when Norway has to deliver. Let me use our relationship with the EU as an example. Through constructive cooperation with the EU, we are involved in building peace and stability in Europe, including: by supporting economic growth, the balancing of wealth differences, the rebuilding of war-torn societies and democratic reform processes. So we also invest in our own security. At the same time, our commitment is to provide the basis for a broad network in Brussels and bilateral contacts in the European capitals. As a country that has chosen to stand outside the EU, we need to work all the harder to safeguard our national interests as best we can in the context of the situation we ourselves have decided to be in. Moreover, our contribution to Europe’s economic and social development will become even clearer when we face a new and enlarged EU and EEA in three months’ time. In order to continue accessing a market like 1 May, 75 million people are being expanded, when ten new countries become members, we have to pay almost $2 billion per. years to the new EEA financial instruments. There is a time-lag of our contributions in relation to the past, and Norway is among the countries in Europe that provide the most proportionate support to new Member States in the EU. They've been asked if this is really worth the money. Enlargement itself is important for Norway. 75 million people in the EEA are giving us increased market opportunities, especially when the purchasing power of this market is increasing. Furthermore, it gives us a closer and closer political relationship with the ten new EEA countries. However, such amounts cannot be justified only as ‘clean store’. At least there is at least the same amount of policy – important policies. Norway is one of Europe's richer countries. We have a clear responsibility to help balance the dividing lines in Europe. It would be inappropriate and unwise of us not to contribute to the historical development of our continent now in. Let me continue in Europe. The EU and NATO enlargements in 2004 will bring major changes to the foreign policy landscape. Further seven countries in Central and Eastern Europe will be our allies in NATO. Ten new countries join the EU and the EEA from 1 May. The EU and NATO will now include all the essential elements of the previously block-sharing continent. The referendums in the new Member States have shown that there is solid popular support in Central and Eastern Europe for a foreign policy line leading to membership of these countries in the EU and in NATO. Forced cooperation, as many of them experienced it in the Soviet Union or through the Warsaw Pact and COMECON, leads to inequality and inequality. The EU and NATO are organisations of free and independent countries that choose to participate in commitment cooperation in order to meet challenges that can best be addressed in a Community context. An enlarged EU and an enlarged NATO will accommodate countries with major differences in both the political and economic levels of development, differences that need to be balanced through cooperation and joint efforts. For a large majority of European countries, cooperation within the EU and NATO and between the two will be the preferred cooperation framework. It is clear that this is of great importance to Norway, not least in terms of how we can and should take care of Norwegian interests. The EU is not only being enlarged geographically. Cooperation is deepened and developed at the same time. Last summer the Convention on the Future of Europe presented a proposal for a new Constitutional Treaty. The aim is to simplify and streamline the EU decision-making system. The EU Summit in December did not clarify, in particular due to disagreement on the voting rules. However, the voting weight of each EU country in the Council has always been a difficult issue. It is necessary to explain and defend compromises with voters and national Parliaments. However, when EU countries have not agreed on such important issues, there is a clear setback. The EU continues its efforts to reach agreement on a new treaty. I met my Irish colleague in Dublin right after Ireland took over the EU Presidency on 1 January. He confirmed that they were seeking to bring the negotiations forward, and he would not accept the word ‘crisis’. Although the outcome of the process is currently fairly open, we should not underestimate the willingness of EU countries to get into port with a compromise. They've demonstrated that over and over again. The government will follow closely the work of the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union. A more transparent, democratic and decision-making EU is also in Norwegian interest. The proposal for new Treaty provisions does not appear to be in itself to make it particularly difficult to continue today's EEA cooperation, it should be adopted, but we are still facing difficult challenges in our relationship with the EU. It cannot be hidden that there is an increasing challenge to attract attention in the EU on EEA cooperation. We must recognise that the EEA is more important to us than to the European Union, and we will be facing a larger, more complex and, at the same time, more self-conscious Europe after 1 May. In order to safeguard our interests, we must lobby against the Commission, against 25 and no longer 15 capitals, and against the European Parliament. It's demanding. EU enlargement weakens the relative weight of Norway and the other two EEA countries in relation to the EU. We're five million people, they'll be about 450 million. We have to realize that it makes it harder to influence and get a word into the game when decisions are to be made. In addition, the value of our formal contractual basis is narrowed as cooperation within the EU grows in areas where we have no or limited formal links. As can be seen from St.prp. No 3 for the current period, which the Stortinget will be considering next Thursday, it is a coherent objective for all parties that EEA enlargement should take place at the same time as EU enlargement. I have been optimistic about this going on, but it is probably unlikely that all EU countries will be able to implement the necessary internal procedures in time to ratify by 1 May. The EU Commission has therefore proposed to ensure cooperation in an enlarged EU/EEA already from the time of enlargement through an exchange of letters on the temporary application of the enlargement agreement. The Government takes a positive view of such a solution, provided that the Storting agrees to the conclusion of the contract itself. The proposal also emphasises that through the two new EEA financial instruments, Norway will participate in the joint European effort to enable the new Member States to participate in the enlarged internal market. The EEA Joint Mechanism shall be used, inter alia, for: environmental measures including cultural protection, education, research and health. In addition, measures to strengthen the justice sector, regional cooperation and expert assistance for the implementation of the EEA Common Code are expected to be emphasised in the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. The wishes and priorities of the beneficiary countries will be the starting point for the use of these funds. However, within the framework set by the recipient management, the Government will assume that Norwegian interests are involved where it is natural. With an annual frame of approx. DKK 1.8 billion is going to make a significant contribution to Europe's economic and social development. The government will continue the dialogue and cooperation with the EU on foreign policy issues, in particular as regards the development of the common security and defence policy, but also as regards the crises and conflicts in which Norway is particularly committed. We consider it essential that foreign and defence cooperation be developed in close and open cooperation with NATO. It is important for Norway and essential to maintain confidence and cooperation across the Atlantic. The new EU Security Strategy also emphasises the EU's responsibility for contributing to security and stability in Europe's neighbouring countries. At the same time, the strategy aims to strengthen multilateral cooperation against terrorism and other security threats. The broad approach adopted by the strategy, with a focus on prevention through the combined use of many EU instruments, is largely in line with Norwegian policy. As this cooperation evolves, there is little evidence that this will create tensions in the NATO alliance. At my discretion, it'll be for the common good. The countries of the Western Balkans are also part of European cooperation. The EU wants them to be increasingly involved in EU cooperation through support for reform processes and adaptation to European standards. Croatia is the country of the Western Balkans that has progressed most in its approach to the EU, and the Croats have sought membership. If Croatia fulfils its obligations to the Yugoslav Court of Justice, the road may be open to negotiations on EU membership. It could contribute to stability and development both in the region and in an integrated Europe. The government supports the objectives of EU policy towards the countries of the Western Balkans and will continue to contribute to the implementation of cooperation projects that can strengthen their integration both in European and in Euro-Atlantic cooperation. At the same time, it is important that we fulfil the responsibility we have to support the local forces that are working for democratic development in the region. We must not ignore the danger signals that still come from this war zone. Norway shall chair the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee from May to November this year. On the Norwegian side, we have always focused on actively supporting the Council of Europe. We're still going to do that. In its core areas, including: the promotion of human rights, the rule of law and good governance, the Council does a great and significant work. It is an important instrument in the process of preventing conflicts and building democratic societies in our part of the world. However, in order for the Council of Europe to be able to carry out its tasks in the best possible way in the future, reforms are needed. From the Norwegian side, we have, first of all, been actively engaged in efforts to streamline the European Court of Human Rights. The Court of Justice is a supporter of European human rights work, but in recent years it has had to contend with an explosive growth in the volume of cases and increasing capacity problems. The work to strengthen the Court of Justice will be one of the main priorities of the Norwegian Presidency. Secondly, we will work towards understanding that the Council of Europe must focus more strongly and concentrate on areas where it can do a better job than others, and where it can complement other international organisations, primarily in the fields of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. In particular, it concerns the EU and the OSCE. The starting point must be that organisations should complement each other, not compete. This is particularly important in the relationship between the Council of Europe and the OSCE. Thirdly, we want to help further develop the role of the Council of Europe in the prevention of conflicts, including: by promoting dialogue between ethnic groups and religious communities. There have been questions as to why the Sem Declaration makes such a clear reference to the importance of NATO and transatlantic relations when Norway and other European countries may sometimes disagree with the United States. Let me illustrate it this way: the one who's looking for friends you just agree with, nobody gets. Above the Atlantic it is a fundamental community of values, historical, cultural and political, which it is very important for us to maintain and further develop. It is therefore gratifying that the NATO ministerial meeting in December showed that the Alliance is now putting the problems of the Iraq dispute behind it. We disagreed, but now we are in a new phase that brings us together: the goal of building a democratic Iraq. It is demanding and should call for joint efforts rather than reviving old disagreements. And when the dictator is gone, the possibility of a better Iraq is present. At the same time, we must recognise that European assessments of key issues do not always correspond to American ones. I am disappointed that the United States has chosen to remain outside of important multilateral agreements. I'm thinking, for example. on the Kyoto Protocol, the Test Area Agreement for Nuclear Weapons and the International Criminal Court. In the field of trade policy, we also experience that the United States is acting on a temporary basis in a way that is exclusive to WTO legislation. At the same time, however, it must be stressed that the United States of America took into account the provisions of this multinational code when accepting the judgment in the important steel case. For Norway, it is essential to contribute to the strengthening of transatlantic relations in the future. The new security threats, including: in the form of international terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, calls for a common approach on both sides of the Atlantic. The Heads of State or Government of NATO meet in Istanbul on 28 and 29 June. At the summit, the political framework for the Alliance's activities will be drawn up in the future. A central theme will be NATO’s continued involvement in Afghanistan. Nor will I ignore the fact that the United States and other related allies will be calling for a role for NATO in Iraq in addition to the support that the Alliance provides today in the Polish-led sector. If this happens, of course I will discuss it with the Stortinget. However, at the NATO ministerial meeting last December there was no American proposal on a stronger role for the Alliance in Iraq. Significantly, however, considerable emphasis was placed on this from European countries that have taken on significant responsibilities in Iraq, such as Poland, Spain and Italy. On the basis of these and the new American signals, we expect this to be a theme for and at the NATO summit in Istanbul in June. Then we are also closer to an important time for Iraq: the transition to Iraqi rule. This will make it even more clear that decisions must not be taken with a view to old disagreement, but with regard to Iraq's need for the future. On the Norwegian side, we expect the decisions necessary for the EU to take over the NATO-led operation in Bosnia-Herzegovina will also be taken at the Istanbul Summit. The best thing would be if this could happen within the framework of a NATO/EU summit in Istanbul. Working to get such a meeting, and if it were to become a reality, there would be a strong emphasis on the basic cooperation established between the two organisations. The Istanbul Summit will also highlight the integration of NATO's seven new Member States, which means that the major political divides in Europe are now definitely erased. In addition, relations with partner countries will likely be strengthened in the light of the significant interest shown by these countries in deepening cooperation with NATO. The new NATO Secretary-General emphasises that, in the future, the search for an alliance will focus primarily on Afghanistan. That is entirely in line with what I said in the Stortinge during the debate just before Christmas. NATO's efforts as leader of the ISAF operation will be crucial for the further stabilisation of Afghanistan. The mission will also have a major impact on how NATO cooperation will develop and how NATO's credibility will be perceived in the future. Afghanistan is in a difficult situation, and this will take time. An important milestone in the country’s history was reached on 4 January when the constitutional meeting of the Grand Council of Lloya Jirga agreed on a new Afghan constitution. The Constitution strengthens the rights of both women and ethnic minorities. At the same time, the constitutional process showed some major political, ethnic and religious contradictions. The Norwegian security and security company, which was deployed during the meeting in Lloya Jirga, contributed to ensuring the security of the meeting. There can be no doubt that our decision to leave was important and correct. The company will now continue its involvement in other areas until the summer of 2004. When, in my presentation on 17 December, I mentioned the plans for the gradual expansion of the ISAF operational area in Afghanistan, I gave special attention to the so-called Provincial Reconstruction Teams, abbreviated PRT. I also signaled that we were prepared to participate in a PRT team in cooperation with other Nordic countries and the United Kingdom. Discussions on such PRT strength are now under way for deployment during the year. In addition, the Government has decided to offer Afghan authorities up to 10 police instructors for training the Afghan civilian police force and the Afghan border police in 2004. This shall be done in cooperation with Germany, which has the international responsibility for coordinating the development of the justice sector in Afghanistan. The problems in Afghanistan are big and complicated. They require long-term and targeted efforts on the part of the international community. The government is set to contribute to this, in cooperation with related countries. Developments in Afghanistan, as well as Iraq, cannot be dismantled from the situation in the region, in particular the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. It is therefore deeply regrettable that it seems extremely difficult to make progress in the peace process between them. The situation is marked by a lack of trust, terrorist acts and military actions. The necessary willingness to achieve the objective set by the international community of two states, Israel and Palestine, which can live side by side in peace with safe and secure borders, does not appear to be present. However, in my view, the objective can be achieved if the parties take measures to improve safety and restore trust between them. The Palestinians must demonstrate the will and ability to actively combat terrorism carried out by extreme Palestinian organisations. Israel, on its part, must remove settlement outposts and stop the expansion of existing and the construction of new settlements. No responsible country questions Israel's obvious right to self-defense. But it is equally clear that the Israelis must refrain from using power that is not proportionate to the threat to which the country and its inhabitants are exposed. In this regard, I would like to stress that, in the view of the Government, the trajectory that Israel has chosen for the so-called separation barrier is unlawful. The barrier will be a serious obstacle to any attempt to restore trust between the parties. I'm afraid it creates a new fact on the ground and thus makes a two-sided two-state solution even more difficult. The international community, for its part, must use all the means at its disposal to support the peace efforts. Here lies a heavy responsibility on the so-called Quartet, i.e. The UN, the EU, Russia and, in particular, the United States. At the same time, it is important to stress that at the end of the seventh century it is the Israelis and the Palestinians themselves who must take the necessary steps to bring the peace process back on track. What can Norway contribute? We must support the forces on both sides that want a speedy resumption of the negotiations. An example of this is the architects behind the so-called Geneva initiative, which is currently visiting Oslo. Although the situation is settled, we must not forget that the majority of the population on both sides are in favour of a two-state solution and a quick resumption of negotiations. Another important challenge is to help prevent further deterioration of Palestinian self-government and to facilitate the difficult economic and social situation of the Palestinians. Norway is a significant contributor to the Authority and the Government plans to continue various financial support schemes. In order to ensure the continued existence of the self-government authorities, which is a prerequisite for a two-state solution, in December last year, Norway took the initiative of a meeting of the donor country committee for the Palestinians in Rome. The fact that my colleagues from both Israel, the Palestinian authorities, the Presidency of the European Union and the President of the World Bank took part in the meeting testifies that we are far from the only ones who take the situation seriously. At the meeting, it was decided to establish a budgetary support fund where payments will be linked to concrete results in the reform process. The government is planning to channel parts of our contribution through such a fund. As chairman of the donor country group, I would like to actively seek funding for the fund among other donors. At the meeting, we also discussed the obstacles and increased costs incurred by the Palestinians due to the Israeli policy of closure. I once again took up with the Israelis the importance of changing this. Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom presented at the meeting what he called a 'positive agenda'. If implemented, according to Shalom, this would facilitate the economic and social situation of the Palestinians. For the time being, we haven't seen any results. A solution to the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians will have an enormously positive impact on other challenges in the region. On the other hand, progress in other areas is not conditional on the settlement of the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. In this regard, it is worth noting the positive developments we have seen in Libya and Iran in terms of weapons of mass destruction. One of the many challenges in the region has highlighted the UNDP's Human Development Report for 2002 and 2003: lack of dynamism in many Arab countries. Despite large natural resources, large parts are characterised by increasing poverty, uneven distribution and democratic deficits. The report underlines what the Minister of Education of the United Arab Emirates said to the Washington Post earlier this month: Arabs want the same thing as other people: freedom, equality and justice. But their political regimes often deny them these fundamental rights, because they are afraid to be held accountable. This is not a challenge that we in the West have systematically taken in. It is hoped that the dialogues conducted in different contexts may be the precursors of more policy-oriented actions. Peace negotiations between the Sudanese authorities and the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement, SPLM, show that the parties have taken responsibility for ending 20 years of civil war and suffering for the Sudanese people. We regret the fact that we did not reach a goal until yesterday's debate took a break. Nevertheless, there has been good progress in the peace process since the parties started direct negotiations with each other in September last year. The agreements on the organisation of military forces and the sharing of resources and income during the interim period underline the willingness to reach a final peace agreement. We hope the negotiation break will be short-lived and we are in contact with the parties to get them to resume negotiations as soon as possible. We hope that the parties will make use of the pause for preparatory contacts, with a view to quickly clarifying the latest outstanding issues. This concerns the status of the three disputed north-south border areas: the Nub mountains, Southern Blue Nile and Abyei. The parties also need to agree on the latest outstanding issues for political power-sharing in the six-year interim period. Once these elements have been clarified, the parties will be able to sign a framework agreement which will be the decisive step towards peace in Sudan. We hope and believe that this can happen no later than February this year. In addition, the Parties must agree on practical aspects of the implementation of a peace agreement, including a truce agreement. It is therefore likely to take a further few months before the final peace agreement can be signed. Contributions from the international community have been important in the efforts to assist the warring population of Sudan. Not least Norwegian non-governmental organisations such as the Church's Emergency Aid and Norwegian Public Aid have made significant efforts here. International efforts have also been important in achieving peace in Sudan. The regional organisation IGAD, under the leadership of Kenya, has been a driver and organiser of the peace negotiations. Together with the United States, the United Kingdom, Italy, the United Nations and the African Union, Norway has cooperated closely with IGAD and the parties. Nevertheless, the parties themselves have been in the driving position in the negotiations. This ownership is important in view of the responsibility for the implementation of the peace agreement. The implementation of the peace agreement will require long-term international involvement in Sudan. Let me stress that a peace agreement will only be the first step towards normalizing the situation in the country. The peace agreement must be ensured through a wide-ranging international effort. Together with Italy, Norway is at the forefront of preparations organised by the IGAD Partners Forumand will invite to a donor country conference in Norway once a peace agreement has been signed. The role of Norway in the negotiations is mandatory. The government is set to live up to these obligations. If there is to be a peace agreement in Sudan, the Government will positively assess the participation of Norwegian personnel in a UN-led force once any needs and funding have been clarified. In Sri Lanka, two years have now approached since, with Norwegian help, a ceasefire was concluded between the government and the Tamil tigers, LTTE. This is the longest period of truce since the war started more than 20 years ago. This truce has been held, not least thanks to the efforts of the Nordic countries in the Sri Lanka Monitoring Mission, which are observers of the Armistice Agreement. After a six-month break in negotiations, last autumn everything was ready to resume negotiations between the parties with a view to establishing an interim administration for the traditionally Tamil-dominated areas. Thus, while the peace process between the parties progressed, there was disagreement on the government side between the President and the Prime Minister about who would direct the peace process and control the military. We have made it clear from the Norwegian side that we cannot facilitate the resumption of negotiations until there is clarity in who is responsible for the government. We note that the ambiguity persists, and that there is little evidence that an agreement between the President and the Prime Minister will be reached in the foreseeable future. In this situation, we in Norway give priority to assisting the authorities and the LTTE in ensuring that the ceasefire continues to be respected. In my view, it is positive that both the President, the Prime Minister and the LTTE express explicit support for the ceasefire and the Nordic observers under Norwegian leadership. It is also worth noting that in the last few months there have been no serious breaches of the truce. However, there is reason for concern that a gradual weakening of the truce may occur if there is a long period of time without any prospect of new negotiations. It is also important to contribute to the further work of both the authorities and the LTTE on economic and social issues of which the parties are concerned. Norway, in close contact with all parties, other governments and international organisations, will seek to contribute to this. We are also ready to reopen negotiations when the parties have to ask us to do so. In some of the areas where Norway makes international contributions, our national self-interest may not be apparent at first sight. This is definitely not the case for the broad cooperation we have established with Russia in a number of areas. Not least in the north, cooperation at regional and local level is extensive. Our Presidency of the Barents Council, which we have until the autumn of 2005, will be used to strengthen the breadth and diversity of cooperation in the north. The nuclear action plan, project cooperation with Russia and the Investing Fund for North-West Russia are our main national instruments for meeting the challenges in the Barents region. The government is also actively involved in cooperation with Russia through the Arctic Council, the Baltic Sea Council, the Nordic Council of Ministers’ neighbourhood programme and the EU’s northern dimension. The parliamentary elections in Russia last December confirmed the sustained and widespread popularity of President Putin and his programme for reform, stability and cooperation with the West. There is every reason to believe that the political freedom of action granted to Putin after the elections will be used to continue the economic reforms and good cooperation with Western countries. At the same time, we must follow closely the way in which freedom of action is applied in the development of civil society, freedom of expression and democratic rights. From the Norwegian side, we will continue our efforts to develop our good relationship with Russia and build on the solid foundation created in recent years. We have everything to do with obliging cooperation with the Russians in all areas of common interest. Not least, the Government will continue to cooperate actively with Russia on nuclear safety in our neighbourhoods. Cooperation has produced good results, but also involves a number of dilemmas. The challenges are great. In our neighbourhoods there are nuclear power plants, a large number of nuclear submarines, stocks with significant quantities of spent nuclear fuel and solid and liquid radioactive waste. Along the Colacyst there are hundreds of light bulbs powered by poorly secured high-radioactive sources. We are facing an environmental threat and a security threat we have a clear self-interest in contributing to the solution of. The Russian authorities give priority to this work, but depend on outside assistance. We have since started our cooperation with Russia in this field, working for a stronger and wider international commitment. A legal framework is in place, the environmental fund under the northern dimension of the EU is operational and the G8 countries have joined forces to raise $20 billion for the protection of weapons of mass destruction and weapons in the former Soviet Union. We're in all of these contexts, including in the G8 collaboration. Russia and the G8 countries give high priority to the scrapping of unmanned submarines. So do we. We are involved in defining the priorities and guidelines for the implementation of practical measures. This also applies to the requirements for environmental impact assessments of individual projects. There are many reasons for the nuclear problems in Russia. One of them is that Russian supervisory authorities do not have sufficient impact. Therefore, in our further work, we will focus on contributing to their strengthening. We need more knowledge about Russia's handling of the spent nuclear fuel from submarines. In particular, we need better knowledge of the environmental consequences of recycling used reactor fuels and of the alternatives available. Storage is such an option. But it will take a long time to get the necessary storage capacity in place. Some experts believe that this could take up to 10 years. But we can't put the nuclear safety work on ice until this problem is solved. It will increase the risk of discharges and accidents and increase the risk of radioactive material being diverted. That is why we must both continue the nuclear safety work with Russia and work for alternatives to recycling. These are issues that we are now addressing to a greater extent, both bilaterally with the Russian authorities and in international cooperation. And the State Radiation Protection Agency, as the Norwegian specialist authority in the field, has gained an even more central role in the implementation of the Government's Nuclear Safety Action Plan. The government will return to these questions before the summer in its own big message on Norwegian north-eastern policy. Let me conclude with a few words about the situation in the WTO negotiations. In the presentation to the European Parliament on 13 June last year, I reviewed why the WTO is important to Norway. I stressed that it is a priority objective of the Government to help the WTO continue its central role in the field of trade policy. A stable and predictable framework for world trade is essential to ensure economic growth and prosperity development, both at home and in the rest of the world. The Government therefore regrets that last year's Cancun ministerial meeting was unable to reach the political decisions necessary to proceed with the negotiations in a constructive and balanced manner. The government will do what it can to help real negotiations relaunch as soon as possible. However, although consensus has not been reached, there is no crisis vote in the WTO. Rather, there is pragmatism and recognition of the need for more time. I attended an informal ministerial meeting on the WTO in Davos last Friday. This meeting and other conversations I have had after the Cancun meeting confirm that it has now been a period of reflection, but that it is again more focused on how to proceed. A U.S. trade initiative, Robert Zoellick, has been welcomed, and there are several teams who are willing to solve it. In Davos, the central question was, how can we, the WTO Member State, show flexibility? How can we quickly get the real process back on track? A Hong Kong ministerial meeting at the end of 2004 could be the next milestone, but it requires flexibility and willingness to compromise to materialise in practice. In my view, there is no doubt that it is the small and medium-sized countries that have the most to lose on the lack of progress in WTO negotiations, not the large ones that can easily have a decisive influence on bilateral or regional solutions. It would be extremely unfortunate if we were to have a situation of halting negotiations indefinitely, and an increase in bilateral and regional free trade agreements or similar arrangements. Unfortunately, we can already see the outlines of such a development. The United States is negotiating with Australia and with several countries in Latin America and Asia. Australia, New Zealand and Japan, which in the past were strongly opposed to such agreements, prepares or wants agreements with their neighbours in Asia and the United States. Despite all the assurances that any agreements will be in line with WTO legislation and build up under the multilateral system, there is little doubt that in this situation there will be the strongest law in force. We – and even more developing countries – will be able to see that large countries gain market access and other benefits for their goods and services on attractive markets. What does it take to avoid such development? What is it going to do to put the negotiations back on track? The meeting in Cancun as well as subsequent consultations illustrates what I have stressed on a number of occasions: agriculture is and will be the most important and difficult topic in the negotiations. The Doha Round stands and falls with agriculture. It's going to focus on real concessions for everyone, not just on concessions that are easy to give. This is a topic that I will discuss in more detail in the answer to the interview that will be dealt with immediately after this presentation. That is why I would like to emphasise here that both a short-term and a long-term strategy to bring the negotiations forward depends on all parties, including Norway, moving their positions. Of course, the government will continue to actively pursue our main priorities in all areas of negotiation. At the same time, we must contribute to an overall result that everyone can live with. I don't want to hide that this can involve difficult choices. However, with the long-term importance of the trading system for stability, economic growth and prosperity development, it is the government’s clear objective that Norway should actively contribute to – not standing in the way of – solutions that can bring the Doha Round safely into port. I will come back to Stortinget on this issue as necessary. I have tried, in the preceding, to get the value of community, the cost of standing alone and how international contributions are a prerequisite for our voice to be heard. I began my presentation by stressing our need for partners and support players under the intrusion angle ‘The one who benefits his friends benefits himself’. Some may object that the concept of ‘friends’ is strictly not a particularly relevant concept of foreign policy, and I understand that. We can hardly expect other countries to give up their national interests and need only for our sake. But one thing is certain: if we don't use the resources we have, to do for others what we want others to do for us, we don't get federalities that, on the basis of common interests, can contribute to the achievement of our foreign policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e381	Under Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, the President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs should be submitted to a subsequent meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e401	Following the collapse of the WTO negotiations in Cancun, it now appears that the climate in the process is changing and that one could be on the way to new substantive negotiations. Against this background, it is important that time be spent on the Norwegian side to ensure an outcome that serves Norwegian interests more than could have been achieved after the Cancun meeting. For agriculture, an end result in Cancun in line with the latest texts presented at the meeting would have been an accident. And it would not only have been an accident for Norwegian farmers or all those in Norway who are concerned that agriculture is the backbone of many Norwegian villages. It would not only have been an accident for all those who believe that Norway should maintain a small scale and environmentally friendly agriculture to ensure safe food, or for all those who are concerned about Norway being well maintained and having an attractive cultural landscape. The outcome of the Cancun negotiations would also have been an accident for developing countries that are net importers of food and need to protect their own food production. And let me underline: this represents more than half of the developing countries. The countries that would have earned a Cancun result are those that produce large-scale, industrial and export. To get out of the trouble you are in in the agricultural negotiations, there has to be a lot of work to do. The contrasts of interest between the large agricultural exporting countries and those countries that, according to different needs, want protection for their own food production are known to be very large and seem insurmountable. In the opinion of the Centre Party, one of the major steps to be taken is the development of a two-part agricultural legislation – one for the production of food for national consumption and one for the production for export. The establishment of such a distinction between national consumption and export production will be entirely new, but it is no more radical than that it is within the government's negotiating point for the agricultural negotiations. In an interpellation debate last March, the Minister for Agriculture expressed joy in recording that a group of countries had joined the Norwegian position. The establishment of such a distinction will enable a well-functioning trade regime for cross-border agricultural products to be established, while at the same time allowing countries to take care of their national interests. For some countries, the need to defend their people against hunger will be the most serious argument for a national agricultural policy; for others, the need for housing and cultural landscapes will be crucial. The starting point for this idea is that food cannot be considered as an ordinary commodity because food is vital. It is a human right to have access to food, and agriculture represents values far beyond what is strictly productive. The centre party believes that the establishment of that division will both be the key to the development of agriculture as we wish in Norway and that it may be the key to finding agreed solutions in the WTO. It is on this basis that we want to clarify how the Government is working to accept this distinction, and what kind of excitement you have. It is a myth that the main demands of developing countries in the negotiations have been increased market access. It is an oversimplification and a myth that misplaces the further strategic choices Norway should make. The Foreign Minister acknowledged this in the interpellation debate last March, where he said: ‘There are also many developing countries who also want them to benefit from full or partial exemption from customs reductions. A large group of developing countries are committed to maintaining different preferential arrangements providing for tariff reductions or Troll Exemptions in their countries and other developing countries through different preferential arrangements.’» It is not the Norwegian farmer who blocks development for the poorest. When developing countries criticize the agricultural subsidies of the West, it is not the income of the Norwegian farmer they want to live on. Many poor countries stress that the protection of their own production is a matter of life or death in rural areas in their country. Of course, few developing countries want to provide internal support for their own agriculture, but they want to retain the right to protect domestic production through customs. Customs walls are necessary to protect their own vulnerable agriculture. Since the entry into force of today’s WTO agreement, 16 developing countries have gone from seagoing food to net food importers. The main interest of these countries is to ensure the right to produce the food needed by the population, not primarily to increase market access. Countries have been forced to reduce their own import protection and increase imports, and they are unable to withstand the pressure of dumped exports from the large countries. Norway’s position has also been the liquidation of export subsidies, which is very much appreciated by the Centre Party. This coincides with the requirements of developing countries, as it is primarily the export subsidies that compete with their own products. Norway should go higher on the road in order to promote this position and support it under the requirements of developing countries. The main problem facing developing countries is the US and EU dumping on the markets of developing countries through subsidised production. The EU and the US joint proposals before Cancun became so provocative to many developing countries because the proposal did not go far enough short of export aid but would nevertheless maintain support for exported products. In addition, the United States and the EU proposed cutbacks in customs protection in developing countries, which would weaken their own food production for their own consumption. Despite Norway’s introduction of zero duty and removal of allowances from MUL countries in 2002, imports from these countries have fallen from 265 million. SEK in the first half of 2002 to SEK 208 million. One year later. This is very regrettable, and I know that the Government and the Minister for Development have been very successful in developing this work. Therefore, it is paradoxical that the Government does not focus any more on developing countries’ demands for preferential treatment. Preferential treatment, such as Norwegian MUL imports, will be undermined if the WTO regime continues with a general reduction in customs duties for all countries. To sum up, in the view of the Centre Party, agricultural negotiations must assume that all countries must be entitled to their own food production and processing. Internal support for own-account production must be exempted from reduction obligations and customs duties should be set in such a way that each country has a real opportunity to produce its own food. Ceilings on customs duties should not be accepted on strategic food produced by country sea. Furthermore, compulsory minimum imports – tariff quotas – should not be increased, on the contrary, the rules on compulsory imports should be removed. The mechanism for putting this in place must be the establishment of a distinction between national consumption and export production. The way to get this distinction is that Norway is allying with a wider range of countries than we have traditionally done, and in particular the net food importing countries. In the interpellation debate last March, we received offensive answers from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Agriculture on behalf of agriculture. In the Foreign Minister's presentation on 13 June, the mood that was communicated was somewhat more gloomy. After the negotiation break in Cancun, the government has been sparing with both comments and public statements on how to work to achieve the original goals of the Government. In today's interpellation debate, we hope to clarify what the government is doing now, what alliances are being built, and how the situation is assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e445	I fully share the opinion of the interpellant, namely that there is now a new dynamic in development. There has obviously been a period of reflection after Cancun, which after the commercial dispatch of Zoellick’s letter has now received a new revolution in many ways. This was shown not least by the informal trade minister meeting I attended in Davos on Friday, quite clearly, and I also explained that in my statement that I was just giving. We have now clearly come to the stage where it is important to launch consultations on a broad front to see where it is possible to find openings for what is Norwegian. I'm going to do that. It is important that Norwegian efforts are in good contact with the reality felt by other actors in the WTO system. I think it's very important that this interpellation is now being held. The government has always, including in the autumn, sought as much debate on this as possible, precisely because we are facing important and difficult balances here. I am sure that the interpellant agrees with me that Norway also has very important objectives, not least in terms of securing Coast Norway, and in terms of services. All things must be looked at. Let me repeat that on the basis of an overall assessment of Norway’s offensive and defensive interests, the Government’s overall objective is to contribute to the continuation of the WTO’s central role in trade policy. It is therefore regrettable that in Cancun it was not possible to take the necessary political decisions to bring the negotiations forward in a constructive and balanced manner. The Government’s aim is to contribute to the start of real negotiations as soon as possible. The lack of agreement on the premises for further negotiations on agriculture was a main reason why we did not move on in Cancun. The vast majority of developing countries demanded substantial reductions in customs duties on imports of agricultural products, the removal of export subsidies and a substantial reduction in other national support schemes for agriculture. At the same time, many developing countries wanted to continue to protect their domestic markets in order to prevent subsidised products from industrialised countries from competing their products on the domestic market. In other words, the attention of developing countries was focused on the total support of agricultural products, regardless of whether this is export aid or other aid. On the one hand, the EU and the United States in particular have significant export interests in the agricultural sector. In addition, they claim that they too have need of protection. They therefore do not wish to reduce their own export aid schemes without improving market access in key developing countries in return. It is these contradictions that still characterise the negotiating situation. The government’s aim is to be able to pursue an agricultural policy that meets our needs and ensures a viable agriculture in Norway. Our situation is marked by the fact that the main weight of production is consumed domestically, only a small part is exported. This was the background for a proposal early last year for a two-tier approach to the reduction of price support. The proposal seeks to reduce price support more the higher the proportion of output exported. This means that the proposal will have consequences for those countries exporting a high proportion of their output, while countries with a small export share, such as Norway, can maintain more of their support. In the first time after the proposal was promoted, we were able to record some understanding and support for the proposal. Unfortunately, since then, progress has not been as positive. Our views were not reflected in the framework proposals presented by the negotiator before Cancun, nor in the proposals made at the meeting. Of course, the reason for the failure is not difficult to see. The proposal will, of course, have implications for key actors such as the United States and the EU, which have extensive exports of subsidised agricultural products. On the other hand, the tone-setting developing countries, including the so-called G-20 group, do not think our proposal goes far enough. They want strong reductions in the overall level of support for agriculture in the developed countries. In this context, it is necessary to consider the proposal of the G-20 Group, which, like ours, means that aid for products exported should be reduced more than aid for production for domestic consumption. However, it is a big one: your starting point is that this cut should come to the top of the severe reductions they require in national aid schemes, rather than as our proposal, allowing more of national aid to be maintained. Therefore, although the proposal of the G-20 group can be understood to mean that it corresponds to Norwegian agricultural interests to a certain extent, it is not necessarily the case on the basis of the assumptions underlying it. It must also be considered that although we express an understanding of the protection needs of the developing countries from the Norwegian side, it is not known that they will understand and accept that a rich country such as Norway will have the opportunity to use the same customs instruments as the poorest countries in order to limit imports of agricultural products. Norway continues to work closely with, among others: Japan and Switzerland in the so-called G-10 group, whose main purpose is to maintain satisfactory customs protection. Of course, the government is not limited to discussing these issues with countries with which we agree. Well, it is so important to work for understanding our situation and our views in relation to countries that are not in line with us. This is even clearer for me after the informal consultations between 19 trade ministers in Davos last Friday. Developments since the inter-pelling debate last March have clearly demonstrated that multilateral negotiations are a dynamic process, where alliance patterns and the focus of negotiations are constantly changing. So a challenge for us is to constantly consider how to get the most out of our views at different stages of the process. Despite the lack of results, the Cancun negotiations at least contributed to one thing: the core problems on the agricultural side have become much clearer. Leading developing countries require countries to eliminate their export subsidies, countries to make substantial reductions in total support to the agricultural sector, countries to make substantial reductions in customs duties on imports of agricultural products, and developing countries to continue to be able to protect their domestic markets, inter alia. by way of derogation from the customs reductions. The negotiating positions of the central countries of the United States and the EU on their part include: increased market access through significant reductions in customs duties both for developing countries and countries such as Norway, and changes in legislation which have a minor impact on their own support schemes but which will result in significant reductions in aid schemes of major importance for Norwegian agriculture. What's equally clear after this is that the pressure on the Norwegian positions has at least not become less after the crack in Cancun than it was a year ago. But let me conclude again by making it clear that the Government will do what it can to enable us to pursue an agricultural policy that is consistent with our needs. That this won't be an easy task, it would probably be unnecessary to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e475	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. The breach in Cancun gave everyone an opportunity to think about it over and over again. I understand the Foreign Minister there in terms of the relationship between creating a distinction between output for exports and domestic production, that the Government has, on the contrary, given up running that line. I wonder about that, precisely from the signals we get from a number of developing countries. The positions are not entirely in line with the Norwegians, but they are largely drawn in the same direction. That is why I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to be even clearer as to whether the idea of establishing this distinction is still being pursued as a main point of view from the Norwegian side, or whether it has been abandoned. Then I will challenge the Foreign Minister to be clearer on what work is now being done to create new alliance partners. Developing countries have never been strong in the WTO, but we have seen after Cancun that they are better organised and promoting their interests with greater strength. Letters from these countries are now being presented to a greater extent, with clearer views than previously seen. And we see in the communication that is taking place between a number of these developing countries and the WTO that here are things where we have a clear common interest with these countries. That's why I challenge the Foreign Minister to be clearer on which countries you're now working on building alliances. What are the strategic choices in relation to developing alliance partners? And what assessments does the Foreign Minister have of the opportunities to play more with developing countries? I am convinced that if we are to be more able to take care of our own agricultural interests in the forthcoming negotiations, we must be closer with the developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e486	It is quite special to have a big debate, not about goals and what we want to achieve, but actually about the tactical approach to negotiations itself. I have no objection to that, but I have to say, however, that it is very important to maintain the flexibility to seek consensus and see where there are openings. As I see the picture for now, it's not easy to see where all the openings are. There's a leftover work just to figure it out, and it's a work that can only be done by quite extensive consultations. As I said in the beginning, after the new dynamics where things are being put on the table, we have just come into the situation where it is being called on – and I promise that I will. I must say that I think Åslaug Haga jumped relatively smoothly over what I said not least about the G-20 group, which in many ways is a developing country. It is not the poorest countries, but it is as heavy players as Brazil, as India and as China, and it is clear that this is among the heaviest actors. We have to see in our eyes that there are three heavy actors here. It is the EU, it is the United States, and it is the G-20. And it's not least how the points of view there evolve, which determines a lot of what is the reality of what we're facing. I would warn against any thought that one does not see clearly in the eyes where the dynamics of these negotiations themselves are. And that's what we're doing. We have, of course, had good and close cooperation over a long period of time, for example. with the traditional G-10 group. We had extensive conversations with them all the time in Cancun. I think we met with the Japanese twice and the Swiss three times already on the first day. But in many ways it's not very good news either, because the point is, as the interpellant was in it, to reach beyond the group that's closest to us. Among other things, we have Turned trade issues into an important part of the Nordic-African Foreign Minister's meeting that was held before Christmas, without me saying that it gave us some particularly new openings in relation to what we are now facing. That's why some of the points, and what we have to focus on, are just dealing with the big, heavy groups and see if there's any way to find openings for what's the Norwegian point of view. It's not too much to talk to others – for all things – but it's important to understand the dynamics of these conversations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e497	The WTO negotiations in Cancun last year have collapsed as a result of the excessive gap between developing countries and the rich countries. Developing countries stood together in a much more powerful way than in the past, including, among others, countries like Brazil, India and China in the same group. It should be done when nations representing well over half of the earth's population merge, ignoring this group in international forums. The reason for the collapse was that the rich countries were trying to push forward negotiations in new areas, called the Singapore themes, before there was a good solution to the difficult agricultural negotiations. The Doha Round in the WTO is also called the Round of Developments, and the proposals presented in Cancun also clearly distinguished between developing countries and developed countries, unless requirements for liberalisation in the agricultural sector for developing countries are met. Norway is, as you know, one of the world's richest countries, with a high level of protection for agriculture. To present it in such a way that we have similar interests with developing countries in this context is at best sought. In addition, Norway is a major exporter of food, namely fish. Norway has just become rich by exporting, among other things. fish, timber, oil and gas. We are more than many others dependent on fair rules of trade. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, at the latest in Davos, has strongly appealed for speeding up the negotiations again, stressing that there is now a great need for an agreement that is good for the poor. The negotiations are the responsibility of the Government, and I assume that the Government is seeking both to care for the general interests of the country and the needs of the developing countries. I would like to stress that in order to achieve a level playing field for agriculture in northern areas with scattered settlements, long distances and cold climates, these competitive disadvantages must be taken into account in policy-making. The Labour Party has always supported a viable agriculture throughout the country and sees it as important for the Government to maintain the rural profile in the further negotiations. Which alliance partners are best suited to understand our needs, the government itself has to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e511	Three factors make the WTO important for international economic cohesion, and it is the mandatory international law, the dispute resolution system and the role of organisations as forum for negotiation. As is known, legislation is based on the three principles of best practices, national treatment and binding obligations, with the exception of the two main objectives, to promote regional economic cooperation and to promote exports from developing countries. Not least for small countries such as Norway, it is of vital interest for security and predictability to put in place and comply with such international rules and rules. The Doha Declaration confirmed the long-term objective of creating a fair and market-oriented trading system for agricultural products. Significant improvements in market access, significant reductions in trade distorting internal support and reductions were made in order to phase out all export aid. It also agreed that positive special treatment for developing countries is an integral part of the negotiations and that the non-commercial aspects of agriculture should be taken into account. Norway’s positions in the negotiations are well known, and the Foreign Minister has today clearly explained the developments in the positions of the tone-setting parties. It seems obvious that we have sailed into a new sea after Cancun. Then there is also a need for new drafts and customisation of the course. The interpellant Haga gives the impression of doubting the old drafts, although the shot has left her desired waters. There may be considerable drama in this development when the negotiations speed up again. The good solutions for Norway could be intertwined between the positions of the major countries and the blocks. Despite a strong effort from the Norwegian side, a result that is far from our wishes and that can be difficult to reconcile with our interests and peculiarities. In meeting the industry's organisations, I am impressed by their realism and understanding that we can possibly end up with a final product that can be far from our own starting point. I'm looking forward to the Senter party sticking my finger in the ground. At the end of the day, there must be the overall results that determine our assessment of what the country is doing. This will mean that one respects the basic principles and that one assesses the overall outcome of the negotiations in relation to Norway's overall offensive and defensive interests. Then it's important to remember that individual results are just a tab of totality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e524	As others have noted, the positive outcome of the Doha Round is important not only for Norway but for the whole of world trade. I also want to commend the interpellant for addressing the question today. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement that the Doha Round stands and falls on agriculture. And I think it is an important recognition that we are now focusing on finding a solution here. The discussions around the Singapore themes in Cancun became a derailment, and some may have put the right foot down and now force a solution. Then someone has to go ahead and show us the way, and hopefully there's some of what we're about to see. However, as a small player here and – which has also been mentioned by others – as a rich player in the field of agriculture, it may be possible that Norway can now show its way and grant concessions. I did not perceive the foreign minister's response to the interpellation so that we would at least now signal some concessions, and I regret that. He mentioned our close allies in these negotiations, such as Japan and Switzerland, countries that at least do not show willingness to admit. I had the pleasure of attending a WTO seminar not long ago, where I heard the Japanese views. It focused on free trade agreements as an alternative to the WTO process. Besides, I am a strong supporter of free trade agreements, but from the Japanese side, this was an alternative because it was possible to maintain the uniqueness of Japanese agriculture rather than to enter into a WTO agreement. Of course, Japan is unique in agricultural terms, as Switzerland is, and as Norway is. But if everyone is to maintain their uniqueness and diversity, it is not much to agree with, and therefore I share the Hagas representative's view that we should be observant of our allies, with whom we are negotiating, and with whom we are in the booth. I have previously said from this speaker that countries like Japan and Switzerland in this context should not be the ones with which we have almost alliance, and that we should rather find others. I think there's a need to look at this with new eyes. We need to take the needs of the developing countries seriously. There, I don't think Åslaug Haga and I share a view of what is in the interests of the developing world, but that's okay. I am willing to also reach a compromise and say: yes, allow the developing countries to have protection, preferably gradually over a certain period of time, and then we will come back to it, but then we have to give up our protection. And there may be a concession to Åslaug Haga, that the requirement of some developing countries to protect their agricultural sector can be met over a certain period of time, and we can come back to that if, for example. 5-10 years, against giving up our protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e535	The Minister of Foreign Affairs said it very well: here's where it's up to me to make some admittances. I'm going to bring a little one myself first: I have to admit that the cheer after the collapse in Cancun ended quite quickly at my place when I saw that we had actually not achieved any result, especially not on this with export support. It is a big problem that a user uses a lot of tax money, which should have been spent on other things than accumulation of overproduction. So the Foreign Minister is going to be right. In fact, Norway has the will and the ability to do it before. Our proposal for a multifunctional agriculture we got the G-10 group first to fully absorb. Switzerland did a great job in Cancun and kept us in place. Christian People's Party and Jon Lilletun were also out and adjusted the course for Norway – that Norway must stick to Cancun's positions. We also see that the G-20 Group has taken part in this Norwegian initiative. But when it comes to further admissions, we have to look at what kind of agriculture we're going to have in Norway. If we can lay the groundwork for a non-injection farm, too much use of power feed and too much fertiliser use, we have an agricultural policy that we can protect. Then we can tell the rest of the world that now we can open up in those areas where we don't need to protect Norwegian production. We also need to focus on this, but of course it is the nutrition committee that is going to take that part of the job. The problem with export subsidies is that we make a world market price that is not real at all. He's made on the basis of state grants. In the future, we need to ask ourselves what positions we should take, and what countries – and alliances – we should cooperate with, as the interpellant of course asks. We can go along with other OECD countries with low self-sufficiency, and we can manage to find allies in the WTO that are net importers of agricultural products. The important content of agricultural policy is then the need for protection and the relationship with market conditions. The input from the G-33 Group on the so-called strategic product that they want to protect goes hand in hand with Norway's need to protect the individual product that comes from our way of producing according to the natural basis, if we manage to end up with that agricultural policy. For many countries, there will be a need to protect basic production of, for example: rice, beans and maize. We know that a lot of developing countries have problems with that being dumped there. It takes approx. 4 to 5 years of either food aid or other exports to crush local small farmers. We have to be able to see that there is a wrong policy. They will also need export products such as coffee, tea, sugar, tropical products, etc. may enter the market. For Norway, it's easy to give in to this, because we don't have this production itself. So the G-20 group keeps the door open and has a certain self-interest. And here's what we can look for alliance partners that can become important in future negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e548	The interpellant took up a very important matter. The outcome of these negotiations will be one of the decisive factors in whether we are going to have living settlements, a cultural landscape as we are watered to see it, and an agriculture that takes care of our food security – a food security that can provide enough good and clean food, and that can prevent the animal fires we have seen in Europe. The second challenge is that developing countries then until those degrees need an agreement and trade. It is within agriculture and textiles that developing countries have potential, that is where they can cope. And then we're going to try to keep both the wish we have in relation to our own agriculture and that the poorest are going to export what they can export. Per. the date is that very much of the imports we have comes from those countries that provide large export support. Even after the MUL decision, that the poorest will be able to deliver duty-free, we have problems importing from there because of security. The joint purchase builds capacity in Mozambique, which is an example of follow-up, so we can start importing from there. I think we can build alliances also in relation to u-land. What must be a way forward is, of course, that we have an alliance with the people we've had it with. But what will be the worst scenario for us? Well, it's if the countries that have so much export support are the ones that essentially win through, or there's going to be an alliance, with the developing countries, Brazil and Argentina even more, without our interests coming along. I found the Minister of Foreign Affairs well illustrated the complexity. He held on to ambitions in a good way. But I think to the extent that this group we've been allies with should reach, it's a necessity to try to go into an alliance with the very poorest – those who need capacity building, those who need more than someone to export. So I thought that the matter that has been raised today is important, and I thought the Foreign Minister has shown the complexity in a good way. Then we really need to be happy with what's so important to our construction and our standard of living, and that's so important that the poorest can be allowed to get up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e562	There is no doubt that the outcome of the WTO negotiations will have consequences for Norwegian agriculture – I would say – no matter what the outcome might be. On the one hand, customs walls and, where appropriate, their roofs are the requirement for the conversion of the transmission systems — from a system of transfers linked to the volume of production to a turn against transfers not so much related to the number of kilograms produced and the number of litres of milk. However, as Gunhild Eyeyang says, it is important that the Government aims to safeguard the multifunctional aspects of Norwegian agriculture, that there should be agricultural production throughout the country, and that special climatic conditions should be given weight. The situation of the developing countries is important. It is worrying that many of these countries have made their situation worse in a purely commercial way. From being exporters for sales that would provide profit and development, many developing countries, as the interpellant says, have become importers of food, among others. by means of rich countries dumping their profits into their market. We agree that export subsidies must be eliminated, but they will also cost something in relation to Norwegian agriculture. ==References== 2000 dairy farms will fall if we don't manage the conversion. The negotiations are the responsibility of the Government, and I take it for granted that the Stortinget is properly informed about both the processes in negotiations and the outcome of the texts that can be adopted. I think it's good if we can have a good dialogue in this process that's now in progress. I share the foreign minister's concerns with regard to a development in which we get bilateral agreements in which it becomes the strong one's right that applies. At least that doesn't make any sense to the developing countries, and that doesn't make us any use of it either. The process is important in the negotiations, as the Foreign Minister says. In my view, it is also important that one has close cooperation between the Government and the agricultural organisations in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e575	International trade negotiations are usually not conducted in or by the Storting, and this is probably a useful confirmation that there is a reasonable division of labour. What is the task of the Storting in such a context is, of course, to put the overall objectives of Norwegian policy in this area, and then it is the government's obligation to ensure that the negotiation process is such that we get the most impact for our Norwegian positions. Now it's a good old Norwegian saying that suggests that you can get so busy with Toten that the Norway Map disappears. And it's probably not known that you can get so busy with the Norway Map that you forget that Norway is part of the world. The reality is that Norway is one of the countries with the most fundamental interest in the success of producing predictable international traffic rules for world trade, simply because the majority of value creation in Norway is such that we are fully dependent on exporting, among other things. Norwegian food all over the globe. This is why one of Norway’s problems lies in the fact that what we like to call our interests, not simply is a unified concept. Norway has defensive as well as offensive interests, in order to use that expression, but there is no doubt that the offensive interests far exceed in importance and extent the defensive interests. That is why, in my view, it is of little political interest to discuss the tactical aspects of the negotiation process and the countries to which Norway is going to try at any stage of the negotiation process to connect closely. The overall problem in today's situation, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in his statement earlier in today's big meeting, is that we are experiencing a fragmentation process that is obviously harmful, primarily to developing countries, but also to Norwegian interests. In that situation, the Stortinge signal to the Government must be that from the Norwegian side you must be willing to make an active contribution to bringing the process back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e584	Thank you for the debate. I'm fascinated by the representative of Vallersnes, who asks the Center Party to stick its finger in the ground. We have as good ground contact in this area as we tend to have! What we now see in the framework of agricultural negotiations is that developing countries are constantly developing their positions in a direction that we are, in fact, very pleased with. I really need to ask Vallersnes if he has looked at the latest letters that have gone from this 33-country group, and the content of it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs expresses – and the representative for Wage does something of the same thing – wondering that the Centre Party is engaged in the process of these negotiations. There is no reason to wonder, because on a very general level it would not surprise me about the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I could agree on the objectives of these agricultural negotiations. But if you go down in the detail, you'll probably see that there's inequality, and everything suggests that the willingness to go actively into these processes to achieve their goals is very different. I fear that we will end up in a situation where the government does not use the time from now on until we reach a final negotiating result, to be dynamic, active and ongoing, but that one sits and two hands and finally, when the outcome of the negotiations is clear, leans back and says, "We did not achieve any more." I am not reassured by what is expressed by the Foreign Minister today in relation to the willingness to stand in this negotiation process. I do not think it is reassuring that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not willing to give any indication of strategy in addition to having good relations with all three main groups. I am not reassured that the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot go in and say which countries you now have the hope that you can approach in relation to attitudes. There are no countries that have identical attitudes in this process, but the aim is to sew together strong alliances that bring the outcome of the negotiations in the right direction. I experience in the debate we've had now, that the will to stand on, that creativity to find the openings to move on, is limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e591	I'm not going to comment, wise of injury, on the last part of Åslaug Hagas' post, just briefly note that there were a series of misassessments, which always assumes that the Senterpartiet knows best. She can be quite sure that this goes into the government with great gravity and with great seriousness, but not least with an understanding of how this game to the seventh and last is, how heavy the groupings are, and where it is important to press. That's why most of the claims made were groundless. So I'd like to say one thing that, just for fact, is important to consider. It was so that they called Singapore Issues led to the breach in Cancun. It is surprising to see how these problems are now likely to be out of discussion. As far as I can see, there is a broad consensus that there is only one of those who are going to go into the final round, namely the so-called trade facilitation, while the other controversial questions will be put aside. And that's why agriculture is now as exposed as it gets. The representative of Höglund is quite right that I have not signaled anything around the positions. After all, it does not belong to the ABC of the negotiation in an open big meeting to dangle around where you intend to give up and not give up, so at least I know that Höglund and I agree, if no others agree on it. Then I have to say one thing about foreign positions: it is a fundamental position on the part of the developing countries that they should give less than the developing countries. That means that we cannot immediately connect to something that the developing countries would have enjoyed, because we are an undisputed country. That reasoning has to be considered. The second thing I almost have to say is that I hope no one thinks we're going to get away from this debate with just talking about export support, because then it's the other countries that have to give concessions, not Norway. Of course, that's something you'll be able to look through. It's too naive to think that's the reality you'll face. I think very much of this debate will be about reality and how the real negotiating image to the seventh and last is. I know very well what it's like for the messenger in that context, it's like the messenger who gets blamed for the world's evils, we're probably going to get it from the Center Party on later occasions. But I actually think it's very important just to listen to what reality is out there, and that we're not trying to create our own reality here at home. There'll be so little results from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e606	The interpellation debate is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e620	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that lines are not allowed after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e627	Representatives May Hansen and Magnar Lund Bergo have in Document No. 8:31 for 2002-2003 put forward concrete proposals to amend the legislation on age limits for films and videograms and to propose a legal ban on cinema clips for children under seven years of age. After the family, cultural and administrative committee had been brought to the attention of the Ministry of Culture, it became known that the Ministry of Culture is dealing with a matter relating to these issues, and that the Department will come to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner on this matter. Since the proposal became known in the film industry, there have also been very clear signals from this that the proposal raises questions with great practical implications for cinema, and that there is a need for a thorough process in which the film industry is given the opportunity to promote its views through consultation. In view of this, the majority of the Committee – all except the Advancement Party and the Socialist Left – has come to the conclusion that the work of the Government will be awaited and come back to these questions when any proposals are made. The Committee's recommendation is that this matter should be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e642	I'll be as brief as the case rapporteur. The Workers' Party shall participate in the majority supporting the Ministry's further consideration of this matter and shall send it to the hearing. We are really very concerned about all the advertising directed at children and young people. It creates unnecessary commercial pressure on the children and, not least, on the parents. On the other hand, we know that advertising also gives income to the cinemas, incomes used to make good children's films. It is therefore important to have an assessment of the economic impact of the proposal before we take a final position on this particular issue of advertising. Children's films – good children's films are important. That's why we think this is a balance that we kind of need to get an answer to. That is what we expect when the matter is to be heard – a broad consultation – so that most people get to say what they think. The fact that age limits are changing is constantly being assessed. This comes up as you have movies that some people find out are not quite good. But for us in the Workers' Party, it is also important to have some predictability when it comes to this. I was so lucky to be in Tromsø during the film festival – and I talked to some people in the industry. They are very happy that we haven't done anything – let's say – 'jump' in this regard right now, but that we should debate this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e655	Then we experience it again: SV's eagerness and willingness to regulate ourselves in the whole world. It's actually a little depressing that SV doesn't believe that we as parents are able to judge what our children are able to see or not to see. Finally, we have received a similar law across the Nordic region, and more and more countries in the rest of Europe are following with regard to the accompanying principle. Just because some people in SV think that children should not watch movies like "The Lord of the Rings" – then a Document No appears. Eight proposals. Whether the SV's motive for reintroducing the absolute age limit is to spare the child, or to prevent Norwegian children from being influenced by American or New Zealand films, becomes unclear to me. You can't change a whole set of rules on the basis of a movie triology. This cannot be seen in any other way than that SV – based on a few statements in the press – comes across and, together with the Children’s Ombudsman, calls for censorship and regulation. This is not exactly in line with the thinking of the Advance Party and the belief in the individual's ability to assess for himself what is best for himself and his family. SV is at least not in line with the parent group in Norway, for a total of 71 pst. of those with children between the age of 5 and 15 years, are well-satisfied with the liquid age limit in Norwegian cinemas. I also believe that an absolute age limit reduces the ability of children and young people to watch movies. If you are 12 years old and the cinematographer closes to you, you get negative experiences around this, which means you can find other ways to watch the film – like at home in the sofa hook, and then maybe without the parents even attending. It will in turn mean that children and young people lose the social feeling of going to the movies and having a movie experience with others. What SV really suggests is to deprive children and young people of good cultural experiences together with others – a proposal The Progress Party will strongly warn against. The second element of this proposal is that we want to introduce a ban on advertising before films with an age limit of seven years and downwards. Advertising directly against children is already prohibited, and this should provide sufficient security even for children under the age of seven in cinema. The fact that children under the age of seven go to cinema with their parents and see advertising as they see it on TV and elsewhere can not be a problem. I can hardly imagine that children are intimidated by advertising for hair remedies, irritating drinks or fast cars. I think this argument is being very much sought. Economically, too, this will have consequences for the cinemas that feature films that target children. I do not know if SV has thought that with such a ban, the result may be that Norwegian cinemas show fewer films for children, because it is not economically profitable. Oslo's director of cinema, Ingeborg Moreus Hanssen, says that advertising is part of the funding of children's films. Then I wonder, who is going to fund children's films if SV got what they wanted – the taxpayers maybe? I thought that SV put cultural experiences high even when it was a child, but this proposal could result in a deterioration in the film offering to children. In the light of this, the Progress Party proposes that the proposal be rejected. I would like to refer to the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e674	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e677	In retrospect, I see that the two elements contained in this proposal could benefit from two different proposals. It's a little late to do something with now. At the same time, we are pleased to have promoted the proposal, because we have had a debate, and I hope that we have speeded up the process. We appreciate, and of course will subsidiaryly support, the majority's proposal for a closer investigation with consultations. It is said that a ban on advertising will result in fewer children’s films and that it will be more expensive cinema tickets. For us, this is a value choice. We believe that it is not documented that it will necessarily happen. What the cinemas serve in advertising is not a fixed, regulated price or entity. The presence of advertising media can be taken into account in other forms of advertising for adults. There are examples of cinemas in Norway, including: in Kristiansand and Porsgrund – a unanimous city government in Kristiansand – which has chosen for years not to have advertising. There's as many children's films as there are elsewhere, and the tickets don't cost any more. I'm a little surprised that the majority must have even more confirmation that there's advertising pressure on children, so that they can't take part in this proposal. We believe that this is already the basis for this. Councillor Laila Davøy has put the commercial exploitation of children and young people high on the agenda. She presented an action plan to limit the commercial pressure on children and young people early in the spring of 2003. Here the government was also going to consider a ban on advertising in cinema positions for children under seven years of age, on a proposal from SV. Why, then, is it so difficult to vote in favour of our proposal, which would already impose some restrictions on market forces? Today we have the opportunity to send out some signals that we want a society that protects the very least. Then to that with the age limit and the accompanying rule. I will openly acknowledge that I myself am drifting, so I am not very sorry that our proposal is being voted down today. I'll attend the hearings that are coming. What is the problem with the accompanying rule is not the accompanying rule itself. If it had worked after the intentions, I think it would have been completely unproblematic. What is problematic about the accompanying rule as it is today, and as it is practiced, is that it does not work according to the intentions. In many cases, there are no parents or close superiors with the children in the cinema. What happens is that 12-year-olds join other young people who are over 18, who are viewed as adults, in movies with, for example, 15-year limit. The moviemakers themselves say this is a problem. That means that 12-year-olds go to the movies and see movies, and their parents don't know they've been to the movies at all. We know this is a real problem. At the same time, I know that the use of the accompanying rule is increasing throughout Europe. It is used in the other Nordic countries. I believe that if it works after the intention, it has something to do with it. What I could rather imagine was tightening up the requirements for who might be accompanying, what it's like, in addition to the warnings, or the advice, that come from the Film Authority, about who should watch which movies. Today, films with an 11-year-old age limit say that the film “is not recommended for children under 11 years of age”. It is a bit random whether it is stated in the ad, or whether it is informed about it in the ticket cover. We could imagine – but we can come back to that in the further process – that there will be a requirement that this be included in all advertising for cinemas. There are many people in this room who talk warmly about various youth problems — about pressure on appearance and performance, about sex pressure and much more that our children and young people are exposed to. It is to hope that everyone who shares our concerns in this area can vote in favour of our proposal. I will address the proposal we are making in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e698	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e701	The Christian People's Party agrees with SV that the commercial pressure against children and young people must be taken seriously. Perhaps most powerfully, this is expressed just through the advertisement. Advertising sets its standards for our lifestyle. It can have consequences in many directions, such as artificially high consumption, influence in relation to its own body, which the latter also spoke inwards, sexuality, etc. This is about values. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is important to have a high profile in the work to reduce the commercial cold-pepress. We can agree that giving children and young people a safe identity and contributing to a positive self-esteem is an important challenge. Important prerequisites for this are a good growing-up environment through school, culture and family life. But at the same time, it is also important to be on guard against forms of expression that can work in the opposite direction. In this context, the Christian People's Party believes it may be necessary to take countermeasures through the prohibition of the commercial pressure of children and young people, in this case the cinematography. It should not always be such as to prohibit and regulate anything you dislike. However, we believe it is important that the issues of both advertising and age limits on cinema are put on the agenda and that they are first carefully and seriously assessed by competent bodies. The Christian People's Party believes this is an important discussion, in the context of the strong development that has been seen, both in relation to the general advertising aimed at children and in relation to the use of strong contentive instruments on film. We will be open to regulation in this context. At the same time, as the Committee has emphasised in its comments, it is also important to have a well-functioning law in this area. As noted in the comments, this is a complex field where it is important that the parties involved also be heard. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not find it entirely possible to follow the proposalers' recommendation to introduce new age limits and legal bans immediately, without this being thoroughly investigated and discussed in advance. Something else we think would be irresponsible. When the representative Lund Bergo refers to the fact that the Minister for Children and Family has previously announced that the Government will assess this, it is also necessary to take the time needed to assess it, and SV has not had time to do so in this context. Now we'll be able to get it. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the ministry will investigate the matter, and that on that occasion they will send it out to a wide consultation before it is presented to the Stortinget, so that we can have a more thorough debate here, a real debate, when the matter comes back. All children deserve a growth without being a piece of a commercial game. This is about facilitating the right of children and young people to be children — including in a cinema.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e718	I'm going to be pretty short, because several of the speakers have expressed the vision that the Center Party also represents. We support the proposal from SV, and unlike the Progress Party, I think it is commendable that SV has seen this on the agenda. Although there is no majority for the proposal, I think it is very positive with a debate on this issue. I did not think it was unnatural that Stortinget wanted to put the spotlight on children, cinema and advertising, when at the same time we are very concerned that we should not have advertising directed against children on TV. Advertising appeals to a pressure, especially on children and young people, who are a vulnerable group. We don't want this pressure to accelerate relative to children under the age of seven. I look forward to having a wide and interesting debate on the basis of what the majority of the committee says, that after hearing the case, the department should come back to the Stortinget in an appropriate way, so that we can have a wide, constructive and interesting debate. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e727	I must agree with the journalist in Bergen's Official Journal who said that this is a typical political debate. Here, on the basis of one film that some parents thought was terribly violent, a debate on bans and age limits has been organised. It does not surprise me that the Christian People's Party is part of this Jippo and wants to ban the law, and that they are involved in regulating, in line with the wish of SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party. I also have to say that I am a little surprised when SV is talking about 18-year-olds who take 12-year-olds to the cinema and use the accompanying principle as an argument. They may do so, but I wonder if the representative from SV is aware of what films children aged 12 can rent in the video store. Is it better than that there are adults with, who can actually guide them a little bit? Then we must not forget that very many of the cinemas are privacy. There are more and more cinemas that have gone from municipal property to municipal AS or into private ownership. And now we're going to regulate their income opportunities. This makes me afraid!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e740	For its part, the President would point out that the word 'jippo' is hardly a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e743	There's no big debate we have today, but I hear so much here that I think it's right and important to get a bigger investigation and a bigger debate around this. Just a few things that have now been repeated twice: of course, it is not that we have raised the matter on the basis of one film. When it comes to dealing with things that the media writes about, and make a point about it in Stortinget, what we do – and I have to say that in Stortinget, there are other parties that are better than SV. There's nothing wrong with that. If by lighting one case you can show principles, then that can be right. And it's not like this is a debate that we only have in Norway. This is a debate that is going on throughout the Nordic region and also in other countries in Europe, on age limits, on advertising, on regulation. Well, let's see about the video store. Should follow that principle, Woldseth, that means that we could remove everything called rules, because everyone can get hold of a video – or borrow it from friends – and see it. We know that it happens. But if you're going to follow this logic and this argument, we can eliminate everything that has to do with regulation and age limits. Is that what the Progress Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e752	The President will remind you that the speaker will address the President. So the debate is on case No. 3 ended. [[Footing, see page 1605]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e770	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e777	Systematic resale of tickets, especially for popular sporting and concert events, is a growing problem of important organisers such as the Norwegian Football Association and the Norwegian Rockeforbund. Black market trading, which is often referred to as a popular currency, has been shown to undermine the ability of organisers to pursue a deliberate pricing policy, the aim of which is to keep moderate prices even at the popular events. Another problem area is that parts of the black market trade are made in such a way that the public is made through well-illustrated websites, advertisements, etc. be led to believe that they have actually purchased the tickets from the organiser and thus claim against them if problems arise. The Consumer Ombudsman, during the hearings on the case, has explained that this has occurred in a significant number of complaints. In the light of the issues they have been dealing with, the Consumer Ombudsman has expressed the wish for a legislative ban in line with the Danish proposal, as proposed by the proposers. The question of a ban has been raised several times in the past, but it has been put to rest because no satisfactory arrangements have been found for how this could be done. From the right-hand side, we're still waiting to see if it'll be possible to solve this satisfactorily. The right will include: could not endorse measures imposing unnecessary heavy-duty ticket management arrangements on organisers, such as: the issue of tickets by name. In particular, given the consumer interests expressed in the case, however, we have come to the conclusion that there is reason to ask the Ministry to assess whether measures can be found to stop the most outsourced black market trade. The right has therefore joined in what was an overall recommendation of the Committee. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that the recommendation has changed somewhat in the printed version of the vote in relation to the Committee's proposal for a decision. The proposal for a Decision is replaced by the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider different measures against black market trading, including an assessment of a law ban, and to return appropriately to the Stortinget with a case to that effect.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e799	The representative of Olemic Thommess presented an amendment to the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e802	The purchase of tickets and the sale of black market tickets have gradually become so widespread that for several people there has actually been a problem. This applies mostly to major concerts and major sporting events. It has been heard that those who want tickets have actually become uncertain about who really is the real organizer. Assuming that this has now become so widespread, the Labour Party believes it is important for the Government to be given a mandate to assess different measures against black market trading and return to Stortinget with it. One of the main reasons is that it is not known whether this is within the regulatory framework in relation to the accounting and tax system, so with the gradual spread of this, we believe it is important that this matter be investigated and that we get it back to our assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e809	Black Stock Exchange – only the word is suitable for getting it to go cold down the back of most of us. Black exchange is a word that brings associations to war profitors, snuff morals, illegal goods, exploitation of other people, etc. What is at issue in this case is actually the resale of legal goods – in this case tickets for cultural and sporting events. The problem is that someone makes this piggy expensive, and that people are tricked. The Progress Party is initially sceptical about a ban on black exchange trading. We fear that this will be a paper determination without any practical effect. We know that for a number of years the majority of people have been starved to starve our police so they can't do the problems they do per year. Today, and we see it as difficult for the police in the future to be required to work with black stock exchanges rather than to work with ransacks, violence, rapes and burglaries, which we think are far more important things to work with. It is also a problem that even if we get a legal ban, the business could be operated smoothly from so-called dotcom addresses on the web, or sellers without a permanent outlet who are in the vicinity of events, for example. football matches. We will also claim that this business can be stopped by the law we have today. A joint committee says that some of the actors are likely to be engaged in ‘regulated black transactions’. We have laws and rules to take care of that. We also have some cases where it's obvious that there's fraud. It is covered by a number of laws in the Norwegian legislation and can thus be followed by the law of the day. It is also the case that organisers can solve much of the problem by relatively simple measures. They can, for example, pursue companies that make up their minds to be online. They can attach tickets to their names and be more stringent about the fact that the person on whom the ticket is sent is the one who must use it. They may have guards that remove black exchange sellers from the concert or event area, etc. So there's a lot of the problem they can solve if they want to. These are measures that I believe could actually work – that is, strict enforcement of the existing law and some active actions by the organisers themselves. We hope in the Progress Party that the Department will take part in its assessment of this matter. I would also like to mention that a system for resale has a few advantages – for example: that we who do not have time to lie in sleeping bags outside ticket offices, can pay a little extra and get relatively nice tickets. In conclusion, the Progress Party supports the Committee's position, but is somewhat skeptical of a law ban, because we fear that there will be a paper determination. We believe that this can be achieved through the enforcement of the law that is already there and through active action by the organiser, because this is clearly a problem that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e824	It is true that there are some laws and regulations that, if resources were used, could prevent parts of the black market sales that are today. But it is also true that the resources that might be used to investigate and intervene in relation to the old rules are the same as the new rules that we recommend. If it's the case that these rules aren't wanted because it's going to be at the expense of investigating more serious crime, maybe it's not so good to use those rules either, it's probably best that that's the way it is today. What was our intention when we promoted the proposal was, of course, to get an impact on a recognition that this is a real problem. The matter has been raised in Stortinget in the past, and has been rejected as a small problem. As we propose, we are very pleased with what is here, and we perceive that we fully support our view on the matter. This summer there have been festivals, concerts, and football matches where we have seen that the price of tickets has been five, six and even tenfold compared to what is nominal. It is therefore with great pleasure that we note that the bulk of the population – after a certain number of years back and forth – is now in favour of the Government to investigate different measures, including legal bans. We look forward to measures that will prevent us from experiencing ticket sharks that sell on with sky-high profits. We have noted in the work on this proposal that we not only have the audience on our side, we have received great support and many good recordings from such different organisations as the Norwegian Football Association, the Norwegian Jazz Forum, the Rock Association and, not least, the organizers of music festivals such as Quart, Norwegian Wood and the Øya Festival, as well as many enquiries from consumers. They have all been concerned that the ticket price should not make the usual fan unable to experience their heroes. The Norwegian Football Association is concerned that the interest and thus the recruitment may be impaired if seeing the Ullevenål national team is reserved for them with bold wallets. When tickets in this context go on a black exchange, it's because they're scarce. For a family of three or four to attend an event at Ullevål, it is expensive enough as it is when the tickets cost from 300 to about 500 kroner. When we know that the single tickets are going for NOK 2,000, it's going to be completely impossible. It is precisely what is one of the objectives – that it should be a real opportunity for everyone to experience such scarce things, not only those who have enough money or those who have no concerns about trading on so-called black market. If we measure after the start of our new landscaping boss, the tickets on the landcaps can, of course, be torn apart. The organisers of the Øyafestival last summer let out a few hundred tickets late on the concert day to try to dampen the sale of the black market. It is one of the measures that is possible. Let's hope that the government is promoting a proposal that makes us avoid such conditions in the future. Of course, we want a law order. In this case, we play with artists, organisers and consumers, and we are very comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e839	The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that the increase in organised exchange sales to various cultural and sporting events is worrying. An increasing number of actors appear to be increasingly cynical in this area for the purpose of winning. People were misled and lost. There also appears to be reason to believe that to some extent regulated black trading is conducted without accounting, and thus tax evasion. KrF believes it is a good signal that such a broad majority of the Committee supports a proposal to ask the Government to assess several types of measures against black market trading, including a law ban. Of course, it is an assessment whether a prohibition is an appropriate instrument, for example: the possibility of enforcing such a provision may be called into question. One of the purposes of a ban would also be to stop the advertising of such offers. A ban on advertising is likely to be more affordable to enforce. If a law prohibits resale for the purpose of winning, it will also be prohibited to advertise — both in newspapers and on the Internet. As a result, the visible side of the black market sale disappears. I have tried to find out what the Progress Party believes in this matter. They've written long notes, and I think it's been interesting reading. In principle, the party supports the proposal to consider various countermeasures, including prohibitions, and then, in the subsequent remarks, to express what I consider to be a yes to continued black market sales. At best, it's a very fuzzy position, which contains both yes and no. When looking to those degrees, they rely on a management article in Your Money, which cannot be seen as anything but pure glorification of black exchange trading – in this context correctly – there must be reason to ask if that is what the Advance Party really believes. Now I think maybe the representative Knudsen moderated the party's position something in his post. Something may have happened after the comments were written, but I still feel that there are some questions in the air. One of the organisations that have joined this market is the Consumer Ombudsman, as the Advocate General also explained. Over several years, complaints have been received from dissatisfied customers about this. The Consumer Ombudsman supervises the marketing of goods and services in accordance with the Marketing Act in the interests of consumers. Black market sales are perceived as an important issue for many consumers. The Christian People's Party believes that there is good reason to believe that a ban can at any rate help to reduce the problem, if we do not fully overcome it. It should be a clear objective to try to stop those who feed the organised resale of tickets via advertisements and the Internet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e857	On 17 November 2003, the Committee held hearings in connection with Document No. 8:124 for 2002-2003. There were only three who reported interest. There were few of them considering that the proposal from SV had received some attention in the media. I would like to stress that all three of the three who met on the earrings support this proposal. The consumer environment pointed out that organised black exchange halls for different cultural events, from concerts to football matches, are on an increasing scale. And as the increase occurs when this type of business is involved, the number of complaints from consumers has also increased. From the consumer's point of view, this has led to unparalleled ticket prices, the sale of tickets that the black exchange companies do not have, the prices that will be changed after ordering, the lack of reimbursement when cancelling an event, to give some examples. Also the organiser’s page, which applies to both cultural and sporting events, supports the ban on the sale of black market tickets. The centre part has highlighted and stressed the results of the hearing authorities, and it is positive that a group committee is behind the setting. But I can't support myself, like the representative Lånke, to point out what is on page 2, column 2, where the party of progress indicates that the problem of black market trading will be even greater if a hunts the black market sellers below the ground, which the Socialist Left Party representatives will propose. There is, of course, a contradiction between a single committee, including the Progress Party, supporting the proposal for an assessment of different measures, and also an assessment of a legislative ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e866	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e870	I am not going to extend this debate in particular, but I will be brief about how we intend to follow up the decision that is likely to be taken here today. Initially, I would like to say that the vast majority of cultural and sporting events are held without the organisation of the black exchange of tickets – fortunately. This problem is mainly related to some sporting events, in the first series of attractive football matches, and not least to commercial concerts with well-known foreign artists. Although the problem is not of the largest collective set, I totally agree with the plurality of the committee that such activity is undesirable and gives bad signals to society. I have registered that there are different opinions in the Committee on which solutions are best suited. The compromise agreed by the Committee in the draft Decision gives a clear mandate to the Ministry. The prohibition of black exchange trading shall be evaluated, as well as the imposition of measures other than prohibitions. The latter will be measures that in some way make it less attractive to convert tickets at higher prices than they are on demand, so that the black market problem can be reduced. This may, for example: are to print tickets by name, which other representatives have also pulled out here. A prohibition raises a number of questions that you need to get back to in your statement. This applies, for example: where a prohibition shall be anchored, who shall be protected, the organiser or the user, who shall comply with the prohibition, the firm or individuals, and the sanction and enforcement regime. It is also natural to look at the legal situation and experience of other Nordic countries. Denmark, as pointed out earlier, has a law ban against the black market hall, while Sweden does not. I want to set up a dedicated working group to be responsible for the distribution, with representatives from the Ministry of Justice and – to bring the Consumer page – the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. The group wants to have contact with concert organisers and sports organisers. I intend to return to Stortinget with a review of the case in connection with the revised national budget for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e885	To try to make the representative Borrow the confusion about the position of the Progress Party a little less, I would like to clarify – as I did at the end of my main post as well – that we see quite clearly that there is a problem here. There is a problem that some people are cheating, with bandits, with black sales, etc., but there may also be some benefits in some cases. We believe that enforcement of the law is per year. Today, a great deal can be done in this area, and some other active measures can also be put in place by the organisers to minimise this problem. I do not believe very much in the ban on advertising. Yes, it will remove advertising opportunities in Norwegian newspapers, it is quite obvious, and it will remove advertising opportunities in connection with Norwegian Internet addresses. The problem is that most Internet addresses in the world are actually not Norwegian. They could be South American, they could be American, etc. There is no problem for a Norwegian operator in this dark market to obtain a dotcom address or operate it from somewhere in Venezuela or on Cayman Island without a Norwegian law ban affecting it. And according to what I've been informed about, there are already a number of operators that are targeting the Norwegian market, who are operating from so-called dotcom addresses. So it won't be possible for a Norwegian law order to do the least, but a fraud charge, for example. against individuals, will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e892	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e908	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e916	There shall be a vote on cases No. 3-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e923	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider amending the film and videogram law of 15 May 1987, so that age limits are differentiated to 5-7-10-13-15-18 years, the accompanying rule is removed, and that there will be a ban on advertising on cinemas on films for children from 7 years of age and down.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e947	It will then be replaced by alternative vote and proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:31 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-27.ana.ud1479e970	The President noted that, in the event of an incurrency, the draft decision had been put to the vote and that it was not in line with the proposal put forward by a joint committee on page 1 of the vote. The suspension will therefore be enriched and the President will refer to the proposal for a decision of the opinion: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose different measures against black market trading, including an assessment of a prohibition of law, and to return appropriately to the Stortinget on a case to that effect.’
