ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e28	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e33	I propose Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e38	Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen is proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget’s meeting tomorrow. The representative Per Sandberg will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e45	On behalf of the representatives of Carl I. Hagen, Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I would like to put forward amendments to Law No 24 June 1988. 64 on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here, the Foreign Affairs Act. These are specific rules for the sake of national security.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e50	The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e53	On behalf of the representative Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I would like to put forward amendments to Law No 15 June 2001. 53 on damages in case of injury to patients, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e58	The representative, Øystein Hedstrom, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e62	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to put forward amendments to Law No 6 June 1975. 29, Property Tax Act, so that telecommunications installations are exempted from property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e67	The legislative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e81	The law applicable to the National Audit Office was adopted in 1918. The law we are now going to deal with and adopt, should perhaps stay standing for 100 years to come. It gives you a little bit of suspense over this treatment. Although the law does not initially give rise to the greatest degree of commitment among the people, the law affects a number of important principles at the intersection of the Riksrevision, the Government, the Administration and the Stortinget. It is the Riksrevision itself that has promoted the proposal for a new law. So it's not the government's bill we're dealing with, as it's common in most of the other legal proceedings that take place here in the house. However, the Ministry of Justice’s legislative department, on the initiative of the Committee, has been involved in the legislative review, in order to ensure the quality of the legal system. The Stoltenberg Government delivered a hearing on the legislative proposal in spring 2001. And in a consultation opinion in January 2002, the current government mainly concluded the assessments expressed by the Stoltenberg government. It's an overall committee that's behind most of the points in the setting. I'm glad. However, in some areas the Committee is divided into a majority and a minority. Let me get into the two, in my opinion, the most important theses, first of all, relating to transparency. Initially, I would like to say that it is an important and fundamental starting point for all audits that the controller, in this case government and administration, should not be able to decide for himself what the controller, in this case the Riksrevision, will see. A broad majority of the Committee emphasises that new control tasks and audit methods require the type of information that the National Audit Office needs professionally in order to carry out a proper audit. In particular, since the beginning of the 1980s, the emergence of administrative audit has updated the debate on the Court of Auditors' right of access. The majority refers to the fact that a clear prerequisite for the Riksaudition to carry out its tasks is that it has access to the information necessary under law and instructions. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee considers that the new provision on the right of access to the Court of Auditors does not imply any restriction or extension of transparency in relation to current practices. The national audit shall, as a general rule, continue to be transparent in the management’s internal documents. However, there is an explicit view both of the Riksrevision and of the Government that the right of access does not include government notes, agendas, minutes, minutes, draft government notes and hand notes drawn up for the Councils on matters on the agenda. The majority of the Committee attaches considerable importance to this consensus and to a common understanding between national audit and government on the path to the limit of transparency, and subscribes to such a common understanding. Then, of course, there are political discussions and assessments in the departments which cannot be directly linked to issues dealt with by the Government and which will have little audit interest in the National Audit Office. The majority assume that it would be unproblematic to continue the current exercise of transparency and note that the Riksrevision itself has taken the view that transparency in this kind of political process is not necessary for the Riksrevision to carry out its audit tasks. I am also pleased that the minority in the Committee, represented by the Progress Party and SV, also expressed satisfaction at the fact that, through this legislative process, the Stortinget is now using an understanding that the Riksrevision can accept with regard to the Riksrevision's right of access. That's how they've formulated it in their comments. In fact, this minority goes a little further in its comments on transparency, but I guess they themselves will explain that. The main point is that a joint committee joins the National Audit Office’s proposal to regulate the law of transparency, without discretionary exceptions in the legal text itself. I think there is reason to stress the importance of a unanimous increase in transparency this evening as an important prerequisite for the Riksrevision to carry out its task. However, the majority note that in a given situation there may be a conflict between administrative confidentiality requirements and internal discussions on the one hand and the need for transparency of documents on the other by the National Audit Office on the other. If such a situation should arise, the Riksrevision will have the opportunity to deal with the matter with Stortinget. The issue of extradition can then be dealt with in the context of the Constitution § 75 f. However, this is a procedural procedure which will only apply exceptionally and which could in practice be problematic if a majority rule is established. However, the majority will show that disagreement between the administration and the National Audit Office on transparency in documents has not been an pressing problem under the current law. Only on a single occasion has the Riksrevision formally addressed the question of transparency in the departments’ documents, cf. Document No 3:2 for 2001-2002. The majority refers to comments made in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003 and the discussion of current practices. In this case, it was decided by Stortinget that one should consider that there must be written claims and any written refusal of transparency in order to count them as formal practices. And the only formal practice we've had so far is the so-called SIVA case. So to another theme where the Committee shares a majority and a minority, namely the issue of the introduction of a provision on «exempt disclosure». From 1970 and until 14 June 2000, i.e. a period of 30 years, the National Audit Office was not subject to the Public Service Act. However, three years ago, a temporary public disclosure order was adopted for the Riksrevision. It has always been provided that the temporary instructions should be replaced by new legislation for the Riksaudition when it is adopted. And so we're going to do that here tonight. The problem has in practice been that letters containing internal documents are attached to the administration when they are sent from the administration to the National Audit Office, because the Public Service Act does not provide the basis for exempting such attachments. This is a problem that has been raised several times by the National Audit Office, at the earliest in 1991. Since then, the issue has been the subject of an almost endless political pingpong, where the Riksrevision considered that this must be followed up by an initiative, and the Government has considered that the Storting itself must take a decision, and on the one hand, the Storting has pushed the issue ahead by asking for ever-new investigations. Now, however, is the time for the Stortinget to take a final decision. An administrative inquiry into the new law and instructions of the National Audit Office was sent to the hearing on 7 April 2000, with a deadline of 1 August 2000. That investigation did not propose a provision on deferred disclosure for internal documents exchanged between the Riksrevision and the administration, but the issue was discussed. In the National Audit Office's bill, which was sent to Stortinget on 19 December 2000, it is called inter alia. on page 38: ‘The Court of Auditors considers that the above-mentioned conditions would make the audit work of the Riksrevision difficult to the extent that an amendment to the disclosure law is absolutely necessary. Since it is urgent to have a provision in the Public Prosecutor's Act that internal documents in the administration and in the National Audit Office do not become public even if they are exchanged between the administration and the National Audit Office, the Riksrevision will deal with this as its own matter.» This has led the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs to consider this issue. The majority share the Riksrevision's assessment of the need for a change in the disclosure law, and also agree that it is urgent that, when the law is actually to be passed, there is no longer any reason to push this issue ahead of it. When, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, it was urgent to put this in place in December 2000, the majority can be difficult to accuse of urgency when the question has remained unresolved until now, in fact. In view of the experience gained in the current legislation relating to public disclosure of the control activities of the National Audit Office, the majority have come to the conclusion that there is a need to introduce a provision on deferred disclosure in the new law of the National Audit Office. And let me stress: such a provision does not involve a permanent exemption from disclosure, but only a postponement of the time when disclosure occurs. There is therefore no reason to dramatize this. The proposal put forward by the majority is identical to the one put forward by the Harlem Brundtland government in Ot.prp. No 2 for 1995-96. This proposal was sent on a regular and wide-ranging basis to, inter alia: Norwegian Press Association, with the support of Norwegian Journalist Team, Norwegian Editors Association and Norwegian Avisers Landsforening, and is represented in Ot.prp. No 2 for 1995-96. We have therefore seen no reason to send an identical proposal to the hearing now, since it has been widely consulted in the past. Through the Storting's handling of the matter at the time, a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party were positive to the proposal, but wanted a more thorough investigation. In this crossroads, I note with interest that the minority – SV and the Progress Party – also see the advantages of introducing a provision on deferred disclosure. In the view of the minority, the sum of the arguments in favour is not burdensome enough to introduce such a provision. I respect the fact that the minority can emphasise the arguments differently and conclude differently from the majority. It shows that the case has quite clearly several sides, and that this is essentially a classic political issue in which we, as politicians, have to balance different interests with each other. There are a number of issues that could have been commented on and further elaborated, but I have chosen to focus on the main areas in which the Committee shares a majority and a minority. Otherwise, I recommend the majority vote at the warmest.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e133	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e136	I will address this with exposed publicity. When the majority proposes deferred publicity to the National Audit Office, we in SV believe that there is an attack on the principle of publicity. In any case, it would mean a reduction in time in the form of a postponement. The SV has opposed this proposal every time it has been up, and the Right has a proud past in defending the same principle. They were with the Center Party and SV when this question arose in 1996. Let me quote from the comments of these parties: ‘The possibilities of misleading press releases are one of the costs of transparency, and these members cannot see that the adverse effects are so serious in matters relating to correspondence with the Riksrevision that it justifies a derogation as referred to.’; Then my question is, what has happened since then, since the Right now has changed its vision? Does the representative have any information that there have been so many misleading statements with critical questions so many times and with so much more work for the administration that it justifies restrictions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e148	The representative Valle tried to draw a picture of the history of the case. It was at best a rather incomplete picture. This case has a very long history here in the house. And it's actually not that there are so many parties that can boast of having a unique, consistent line all the way. For my part, I'm told that my party has taken different positions, but we're going to land here today at a position that we feel very secure about. There is reason to stress, as I also did in my post, that the main point is not to prevent publicity, but to ensure that the Stortinget, who is the recipient of the many and important reports of the National Audit Office, is the first to receive the reports. From that point on, disclosure occurs entirely.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e155	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e158	The case rapporteur had a hundred-year perspective on this law. It gives a kind of a solid and bastant idea, which isn't always the situation when we deal with things here. Among the important issues raised by the Frøiland Committee was the political independence of the National Audit Office and the relationship with the Stortinget, the criteria for the National Audit Office’s assessments, the access of the National Audit Office to the internal documents of the administration, the principles of audit and control of exempted State activities, and procedures for reporting to the Stortinget and subsequent parliamentary follow-up. This was the framework for the very important work of the Frøiland Committee. The National Auditors are headed by a college of five national auditors, all of whom are elected by the Stortinget. At the same time, the head of the college shall be the Executive Director of the business. The organisation and management of the National Audit Office has raised a number of questions. The principle that the composition of the college should reflect the parliamentary situation in Stortinget must be regarded as fundamental. The independence of the Riksrevision would be threatened if a majority of the Storting could appoint their own party traps as national auditors, and only them. Some have argued that there is a lot of talk about the Riksaudition moving to a governance model, where the College is still appointed from the principle of parliamentary proportionality, but where the Executive Director is employed on a standard professional basis. This, it is claimed, would ensure a better continuity of audit work, while maintaining the necessary contact with the Stortinget. I do not agree with this and believe that the system we have today has worked in an excellent way. The provision that the national auditor shall not have the opportunity to take on a position or duties in public or private activities, except where it follows the duties of national auditor, is an important provision to ensure that there is no doubt about the independence of the supervisory body. I am also pleased that a joint committee supports the proposal that the responsibilities and responsibilities of the other members of the College of Auditors should also be subject to the College's assessment of whether these tasks could be contrary to the role of National Auditor. The national audit has today three main tasks: accounting audit, administrative audit and company audit. In addition, the Riksaudition is entrusted with a number of other control tasks and provides ongoing guidance to the administration. In relation to the audit of the accounts, the Riksaudition has agreed to have audit responsibilities for all government accounts, including departments, external offices, other government activities, management companies, etc. As far as the administrative audit is concerned, it is important that the conditions under which the Riksaudition is subject to the administrative audit are of a principle, of great social importance or of great economic scope. I am pleased that the Committee has formulated the ‘social importance’ and that it is one of the criteria for the management audit. In relation to company control, the Riksrevision’s task is to verify that the State Councils manage the interests of the State in a legally and financially sound manner and in accordance with the decisions and assumptions specified by the Storting. It is important that this review also assesses issues that do not only have purely economic implications. Impact on the environment, working life, etc. should be part of the administrative audit. This is the framework for the activities of the National Audit Office. However, it shall not only carry out subsequent audits. It also has ongoing management guidance. In this context, it is natural to stress the self-responsibility of the administration for its own road choices, regardless of the National Audit Office’s guidance. I am not at all rejecting the fact that the Riksaudition, with its competence, knowledge and insight, provides guidance to the administration. But you have to be very careful here, and the Riksrevision for its part must also be very conscious of its role. The guidance should concentrate primarily on accounting and economic issues and should be of a general nature. Under no circumstances must it be such that the administration can effectively seek prior clearance from the Riksrevision on controversial issues. So when the Riksrevision gives guidance, you have to be very clear that this does not put them in a turbulent situation in the subsequent control, which is what is the primary part of the Riksrevision's role. It is desirable that the Riksrevision examines and assesses whether the Government fulfils its obligation to provide information to Stortinget. If the Riksrevision reveals a lack of information, it is natural that this should be reported to the Stortinget. On the other hand, there are also concerns about a direct audit inquiry into whether the Government has fulfilled its obligation to provide information to the national Parliament. It is primarily for the Storting itself to assess whether any breach of disclosure obligations is critical and whether there is a need for further follow-up. The correct balance between conflicting considerations here must be that in the future the National Audit Office will continue to be able and should examine whether the information provided by the Government to the Stortinge is comprehensive and provides the Stortinge with a sound decision-making basis. On the other hand, the Riksrevision has to exercise caution in its assessments and conclusions. It should not explicitly determine whether the obligation to provide information has been breached. First, it should concentrate on the actual examination and presentation of what the government has known about the matter at that time and, where appropriate, what has been communicated to the Stortinget. Obviously, if there are clear shortcomings or errors in the information, this should be pointed out, but this should be done without the Riksrevisision addressing any further legal assessment as to whether the disclosure obligation has been formally breached. The rapporteur was concerned about this with the right of access to documents, etc. I shall not say anything more about this, except, as the rapporteur here says, and as has been said in a number of contexts, that there are very small limitations given. There have been no problems at all in excluding government notes and such things, nor does the National Audit Office, for its part, see the need to have transparency in these internal notes until the political treatment actually begins in the Government. But I want to refute that this means that the controller decides for himself what the controller should have access to. The different administrations and the different state councils do not do that at all. It's the Storting that sets this limit. This is where you can understand which documents should possibly be excluded, and in this law we make it very clear and say explicitly which documents are excluded. Therefore, it is entirely unreasonable to say that the controller himself is the one who decides what to leave to the controller. So it's the Big Thing that's decided. Once a report has been sent to Stortinget and Stortinget goes on with their own examination due to an audit report, the question arises: What role should the Riksrevision then play? I believe that the starting point must be that once the Riksrevision has delivered its report, the matter is closed for the Riksrevision. The consideration of the independence and political neutrality of the National Audit Office means that it cannot be linked into a directly subsequent parliamentary process as an auxiliary body for the Stortinget. There will probably be more people who will debate the exposed public. I have to be very brief about it, at least in this round. I just want to say that the main thing for the majority here is that the Riksrevision as the Supervisory Body of Stortinge produces a report for Stortinget. Then it is our opinion that this report should be taken by Stortinget. It is only when this report is referred to by Stortinget that the Riksrevision's assessments and conclusions become known. It is not reasonable that the Riksrevision's assessments and the Riksrevision's conclusions or fragments of the Riksrevision case are in the process of being known to the Stortinget through the media. In my opinion, this is not a restriction on the public. There's a restriction in time, that's quite correct, but everything has to be published. Everything that is not for any other reason except publicity shall be published at the moment the matter is referred to the Stortinget. I think this is a reasonable consideration. I guess there'll be more articles about this, and then I guess we'll get a chance to do a new round on it, even if it gets a little bit out in the little hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e190	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e193	I will give the representative the opportunity to come back to the question of deferred publicity right away. So the unfairness that I realized the representative expressed that this was, we've had since 1970. There is nothing that we might want to establish today. What we're doing today is, in that case, changing a state towards less publicity. This was assessed in 1996. The working party said they had to wait for the staging message to arrive. When it came, the Workers' Party said in the setting that they agreed with the government then, and we had a total collapse that indicated that there was no need for any change here. What happened after 1970, or to be more precise, after 1998, which was to provide a different assessment today than the one we did at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e204	The representative Hove represents the oldest party in the country, a party that loves history. I get that, because they have a good story. But what has happened since the 1970s? This matter has thus been under discussion in the Grand Duchy over and over again, and it is clear that it has taken on the Storting whether or not this exposed public should intervene. Then it has been exposed again and again – not exposed, but it has fallen to the opposite position. Now we're making a law, and it fits very well now that there's a majority in the Storting that sees it as reasonable that a report to Stortinget should first become known to the Storinget and then to the public. So I see that the time is now in, and that it is appropriate to put this in now when there is a majority who believe that this is sensible to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e211	The President will already propose that only three lines be given access. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e215	I wonder if I must have misunderstood the representative of the Engretsen on one point. But to be sure to get an explanation, I allow myself to take a line. This concerns the issue of deferred disclosure. The representative Engretsen, as I understood him, gave the closest expression that postponing publicity in time is not any kind of restriction of transparency. The others who have spoken on this issue have stated that there is talk here of weighing differing considerations against each other, that it is considered that this restriction as a temporary postponement is not burdensome enough or, where appropriate, burdensome enough to be exposed to exposure. Does the representative really believe that the issue of time has nothing to say in relation to the restriction of disclosure? In that case, we might as well lock things down in the National Archives for ten years and say that it has nothing to say to the public when people see it. That's a real constraint.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e224	No, you haven't misunderstood me, but I've probably expressed myself clumsily. I don't doubt it. There is no public restriction — in the sense that everything that has previously been public, everything that has previously moved to the public, will still flow to the public. But then I have to admit, especially when it is said that we can lock down documents for ten years, but they have to be published, that it is clear that it is a restriction. But here it's about – I don't know how long it's been – maybe half a year or what it is, from the start of a case to the end of it. So we don't see this restriction as an attack on the principle of publicity and the willingness to make things available to the public. We don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e231	The representative is absolutely right that the left has an honorable story, and that we are also concerned with the story. However, with regard to the public issue, the situation is that the Left is most concerned with further development. What we're concerned about is a further development towards greater publicity. We find no reason to use history as an argument for continuing to exempt things from public opinion, but we are actually quite concerned that there are going to be rather heavy arguments to say that where there has been historical publicity, one should for the future reduce or restrict the public. I therefore have a question in the extension of it. Hopefully, the Stortinget will be about treat a revision of the Public Health Act for one year. The question is: why could it not wait for this revision and take it together in the context of a full-scale assessment of the principle of disclosure?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e238	With regard to the principle of publicity and more publicity, all the parties have gone a little arm in arm, I think. We've agreed and we agree that this is part of our social system. It shall be as open as possible. When we, as I said, do this now, make a law now, it's because the time has come to put it into the law now. Of course, we could have waited for the revision of the Public Health Act, to a great extent. But you can also see it this way – and I ask the representative Hove to assess that reasoning – that we now have a year’s experience with this vulnerable public. When we are going to have a review and a revision of the Public Relations Act, we have the experience of the National Audit Office's reports on deferred disclosure. It is then possible that it was found that it was not appropriate or that it was very appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e245	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e248	Case rapporteur Martin Engeset concluded in his nuanced, first post here that for a large part there is an overall committee that is behind this. Luckily, that's a perfectly correct consideration from Engeset's point of view. But in some very important areas, there are different opinions in the committee. It has also emerged clearly so far in the debate. There are three issues that we, on the part of the Progress Party, need to comment on in particular in this debate. One principle concerns the principle of the right of access to the Court of Auditors. There has been a discussion on this topic, and although we now know that there is a common understanding of it – we shall call it – we believe in the Progress Party that it is important that the Court of Auditors be confirmed as absolute and complete. The National Auditorate is the Agency of the Great Government to control the Government, and in our view, it is totally unacceptable whether the Government should be able to regulate what the Riksaudition should have access to. We can't have a system where the auditor can decide what the auditor will see. This will make audit missions very difficult. Now it is part of the story – we will also include it here in the debate – that, fortunately, this has not been a major issue in practical terms, but in our view, there is a need to clarify this principle strongly in order to prevent problems surrounding it from arising in the future. The second relationship that we want to focus on is – let's call it – the right of transparency that the public has in relation to the work of the National Audit Office. The majority of the committee is in favour of a system, as we have heard, of deferred publicity for the matters dealt with by the National Audit Office. It is, in fact, a narrowing down and a tightening of the public vis-à-vis current practices. There's no doubt about it. There is little point in referring to practices 30 years ago when today's practice is more open than it was 30 years ago. What is proposed by the majority is an intensification of the public. There should be no doubt about that. The Progress Party is accommodating to the widest possible publicity and transparency of the administration, and we cannot therefore contribute to the introduction of deferred publicity. We also believe that searchlights on matters that the Riksrevision has to deal with could be positive in order to obtain all relevant information in the cases. Talking about such issues in the media could lead people who hold valuable information to participate in the debate and draw the attention of the National Audit Office to such issues. So I don't see that the fact that things are going to get in the media is necessarily a negative or an unfortunate relationship that you could interpret as the representative Kjell Engebretsen. The last relationship that I want to record on behalf of the Progress Party is the Riksrevision's management model. When I deal with this, I must of course also stress that in it there is no criticism whatsoever as to the current management of the Riksrevision and the practice that is in force at the time. Today, but we believe that, on a principle basis, a greater distinction could be made between what is the College's functions and what is the employee's functions. We believe that this can be important in terms of continuity and also in relation to independence. Against this background, I address the proposal on page 21 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e268	The representative of Henrik Rød has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e273	There is disagreement about deferred disclosure, but at least we should give each other justice by saying that those who believe there should be deferred disclosure are also for disclosure. You can't try to put it that way. I understood that the representative Red believed that when the matter became known, there was a look-up in the media, and there could be information about the matter that would not otherwise be received, etc. I'm not going to reject it. It is well possible that this is a reality. But this is a report to the Stortninget that the Stortinget should be treated in an ordinary way before final conclusions are drawn and decisions are taken. If there is relevant information on a matter that the public wants to contribute to, it can be done to the Committee, and that is the information in the political environment. There are all possibilities through hearings, by sending letters and by other means to make representations to the Committee in its work. Then I have to say again that it is not the government that decides what the Riksrevision will see of documents. That's what the Storing does.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e282	I don't know if I correctly understood the question. My point is that we don't want to be part of this intensification, which we actually consider to be, because we are followers of maximum openness and publicity in the administration. Therefore, we cannot participate in a tightening up of current practices. I don't think it's necessarily unfortunate if elements of work carried out in the National Audit Office become known to the public and also to the Storting. I can't see that it's a relationship that's so unfortunate that I'm willing to deviate from the principle of maximum publicity in the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e287	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e291	The National Audit Office has a central role in Norwegian democracy through its important input to Stortingen's own control and through its control with government and administration on behalf of Stortingen. There is broad agreement on large parts of the proposal for a law on the Riksrevision, which we are dealing with here today, and I will only touch on some points that have been particularly central or discussed. A majority of the Committee opposes – otherwise in line with the National Audit Office’s own recommendation – the continuation of the current management model for the National Audit Office, where the head of the college is also the Executive Director. Today's system works well. The national audit depends on political competence and understanding, both in order to understand Storting's intentions, decisions and assumptions, and not least in order to understand the boundaries between audit and policy. If the current scheme led to a party policy of the Riksrevision, SV would be the first to go in for a change. But that's not the case today. On the contrary, the broad political anchoring of the Riksrevision in the College leads to cross-political legitimacy, and it serves as an assurance of the independence of the Riksrevision. I am also pleased that the proposal we are discussing today clarifies the importance of clarifying what tasks the members of the college can undertake without conflict with the role of national auditor, precisely in order to ensure the same independence. A majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, in its proposal for the second paragraph of Section 18, provides for a system of deferred disclosure of individual documents. Several of the arguments put forward by the majority are valid and good in my view, but at the same time there are a number of important counter-arguments against the majority's view. The possibility for the press to have access to and comment on matters dealt with by the National Audit Office could contribute to the fact that persons holding information relevant to the control of the National Audit Office have the opportunity to draw the attention of the National Audit Office to this fact, so that the National Audit Office can choose to use the information. This may be a useful contribution to the work of the National Audit Office. Furthermore, in the SV’s view, very strong arguments should be required to limit public transparency in cases, whether there is a restriction in time in the form of a deferral or a restriction in the form of the total exclusion of some documents. In our view, the sum of the arguments is not burdensome enough to defend such a restriction in this case. On this basis, I would recommend the representatives of the SV to oppose the majority's proposal for the second paragraph of Section 18. The question of the Court of Auditors' right of access has perhaps been the most debated issue in relation to the new law on the Riksrevision. Several governments have been involved in the work of this law in addition to the National Audit Office itself. It's been a long process, but the result seems to be good. I am pleased that the text of the law that is likely to be adopted unanimously today is quite different from the one that the Stoltenberg government provided in its response to the daily draft of the law. In the case of SV, it has been consistently central that the Riksrevision itself has to assess which documents are relevant for the control of the Riksrevision, and it is therefore central that the administration should not have discretionary access to assess what is actual or political information, in order to limit the control of the Riksrevision. The National Audit Office has been clear all the way to its need to see all the documents necessary to carry out the control mission given to the Riksaudition by Stortinget, and it cannot, of course, be such that, through such discretionary access, the controlled person determines what information is to be seen by the screener. We have now got a position that gives the Riksauderie good work, and I am very pleased that a majority in the Committee at this point has designed their comments based on the need of the Riksauderie to obtain all the necessary information. The case rapporteur shall be commended for a good contribution to cutting through what appears to have appeared to be a gordian knot. In a final special task at the Faculty of Law at the University of Oslo, the issue related to the Court of Auditors was thoroughly examined. The task, entitled ‘The Court of Auditors — A Judicial Policy Assessment of the draft legislative regulation of the National Audit Office and the Government’, was critical in a number of areas to the approach of the government in this matter. Its name is, among other things, the government’s proposal for transparency regulation opens up to: ‘possible abuse of power and positions in both government and other government as one should seek to counteract in a democracy’. ‘In a situation where someone in the administration does not want certain conditions to become known, it is not surprising that more conditions could be disrupted under the concept of internal considerations and transparency rejected on this basis. As I see it, it is in practice not possible or desirable to practice a kind of administrative audit light as the government seems to do». SV had similar concerns as the author of this task. And since the author is my excellent associate André Dahl, I would like to ask the representative Dahl whether, in his view, too, these concerns can now be put at risk by the legislative proposal that is expected to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e316	The second and intention of the whole-hearted revision we're doing today's law on the Riksrevision is that we're going to pass on the legal status we have today. This is what I mean by the setting we're dealing with right now. But the law gets a modern form, and relationships that have stuck in practice are now being legalized in a tidy and straightforward way. I refer to the case spokesman's review of the case and end up in all main to his point of view. I would like to make a few comments on an area that has been in the debate. The Committee has been divided in terms of the wording on how to limit the transparency of the National Audit Office in the administration. A broad majority, the Labour Party, Right, SV and the Christian People's Party, argue that the new guardian of the Court of Auditors' right of access does not imply a restriction or extension of the right of access in relation to current practice. The main rule is that the Riksrevision should have transparency in its internal documents. However, there is one exception: both the National Audit Office and the Government have stated that the right of access does not include government notes, agendas and protocols and records from the government conferences, draft government notes and hand notes drawn up by the government councils for matters on the agenda of the government conferences. This is a logical and reasonable limitation to allow for politically probable written communication at government level. So there's a constraint that there's an agreement between the Riksrevision and the Government, and that the Storing joins today. Otherwise, I can see that the discussion of transparency has a certain hypothetical character. Only in a single case has the question been put to the fore, about the transparency of a political note. In that case, the Riksrevision took matters up with Stortinget. I am overconfident that as long as the Riksrevision asks for transparency only in documents with a professional audit interest, this will also be a very minimal problem in practical life in the future. It has also been suggested by the National Audit Office itself, as I understand it. As an example of documents for which the National Audit Office does not have a specific need, I can refer to documents that have been part of the preparation of the State Budget, and to which Stortinget is not given access. Furthermore, the control of the Riksrevision shall take place retrospectively. There is no need for access to documentation on plans, etc. for the future. I would like to remind you here of the visit the Committee had in the Danish National Audit Office about a year ago. The Danish National Audit Office has access to ‘any’ information according to the legal paragraph. But the national audit itself said that of course they would not ask for transparency in law-making work, as is the case under the Finance Act, the Danish State Budget. Similar assessments are expected from the Norwegian National Audit Office. And as it says in the setting: It's not that the government can simply not deliver a document. In such a case, the Riksrevision may refer the matter to the Storting through the report submitted. Also, there is reason to believe that the meaning will also be small in the future. So to the question of exposing the public to documents that are exchanged between the National Audit Office and the administration. So the multiples have come to realize that it's necessary. The National Auditor carries out a mission for the Stortinget, and there is no reason why the cases should stay on low heat in the media six months before they arrive at the Stortinget on the basis of reports that have not been completed. I am quite sure that the Stortinget treatment will make the reports more apparent in the media when the cases are actually dealt with in the control committee. I have also stressed that the Riksrevision has strongly wanted such an announcement. There is no secret here either. The same documents that have been public before will also be public now, only a little later. There is full scope for media and citizen scrutiny. The minority point out that public attention can make each citizen aware of the Riksrevision, with information, etc. As long as the National Auditor doesn't realize that this is a need, I don't find paying particular attention to that particular moment. Otherwise I refer to the setting and appeal to the representatives of the Christian People's Party to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e348	It is positive that there is now a proposal for a new law for the National Audit Office. It will provide an even more solid platform for a body which has played a central role and which will undoubtedly also play an important role in the years to come, not only in terms of self-control in the Grand Duchy, but also in terms of general control over government and administration. The centre party is pleased that there is a broad consensus on almost all issues related to the law. We consider it to be a strength in relation to the function that the Riksrevision will have in the years to come. The Parties therefore also support the main features of the suspension submitted by the Control and Constitutional Committee. On one point, however, the Central Party, like a minority in the Committee, will vote against one of the provisions of the Law. The second paragraph of Section 18 applies to deferred disclosure. We believe, like some of the previous speakers, that the reasons for exposure are not burdensome enough. I must also say that part of the argument used by the majority here for exposed publicity is the argument that can be used for exposed publicity in almost any administrative body. In this case, there will be a significant restriction on the disclosure principle of general government. It is clear that when one here uses as a justification that there may be a misrepresentation in the press and that it may be difficult to obtain equivalent publicity in terms of correcting, there is a cost of openness and publicity that any public body has to deal with. It may not be possible to use, in relation to a larger part of the public enterprise, the type of argument used in order to obtain a restriction on the principle of disclosure, which is, in fact, deferred disclosure. Then one can say that there is a less significant restriction in the disclosure law with deferred disclosure in relation to the purely limitation in the content of the disclosure, but it is still a restriction. The minority argues in relation to that issue, and it is considered to be a balance between the importance of the documents for the Riksrevision and the issue of the principle of disclosure, which should apply in all matters of public policy. The central party shares the minority's view that there are not heavy enough reasons to defend this type of restriction. That is why we want to continue the practice we have in this area today, and we will therefore vote against the majority's proposal for the second paragraph of Section 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e363	I might be allowed to express that I actually see it as a pleasure to be present and deal with this matter in Odelstinget when I am only inside as an alternate, since this is part of the follow-up to the so-called Frøiland Committee, where I had the pleasure of being a member of the Left. With the background to the work of the Frøiland Committee, I would like to express my delight that while in some questions there was at least one point in the Frøiland Committee, namely in the question of transparency, disagreement – I kept saying a seemingly clear one, even though for my own part at that time I was a little uncertain as to whether the disagreement was almost cultivated, so that in many ways it became more visible than what it really was – one has now come to the conclusion that what I am essentially choosing to perceive as consensus. It is true that in the Committee’s position, it is the same in terms of – I almost want to say it this way – to describe what is current practice today. You agree on legal rules, and you agree that you should have a continuation according to what you have had. It has been largely agreed, as I understand it, that it should be clarified. In the question that for some time there was a rather strong discussion about, related to the Frøiland Committee, I would like to express that I perceive it so that the Control and Constitution Committee has now come up with what I consider to be a happy solution. My problem is that I have a little bit of a hard time seeing what the disagreement between the majority and the minority is now, because two members of the committee, the two of them from the SV, have joined both the majority and the minority. In this context, I may be almost tempted to agree with the SV's comments. I think they at least express what's the opinion. But it's not in my view that it's really a disagreement with what's the majority's remark – that's a premise for that statement. Unfortunately – as I see it – there has arisen a dissertation in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I have to admit that with regard to the impact of the principle of disclosure, the situation is that the Left will state that there is a clear reason to regret that today we are getting into a minority on this issue. I don't think that's very desirable. I have to allow myself to say, since it seems that it must be possible to perceive as something that one is a bit unprepared in the committee setting, that there has been little notice in previous documents. It is probably possible that this was part of a proposal for a law from the National Audit Office, which was submitted in autumn 2000, if I understood the case rapporteur correctly. If I have understood correctly, it is not part of the draft law that the Riksrevision has sent as a more processed version, after the original proposal had been put to the hearing. In the proposal attached to the committee position of the Riksrevision, as far as I can see, is not that proposal. I have to admit that I came into a situation where I almost had to do a little research to figure out how this was actually happening. Then I discovered about the following: the correspondence between the National Audit Office and the administration has been publicly available since 1970, when the Public Procurement Act was adopted and entered into force. It is true that, in 1995–1996, a proposition was promoted by the then Harlem Brundtland government on exposed public access to correspondence also at the hands of the administration. In fact, until 1996, there had been a number of cuts in the principle of disclosure over a few years, when exceptions to the principle of disclosure had been made in various individual cases. I dare say that what happened in 1996 was in many ways a change. The proposals aimed at limiting this were not followed up, and reference was made to the big-time announcement that would come about the principle of disclosure. The big message was that the first government, Bondevik, had the pleasure of presenting it, and it shows that there is no pressing need for exceptions here. In the committee position and in the debate in Stortinget, it was also agreed that there was no need to exempt public opinion here, i.e. at least no need was stronger than the reasons for complying with the public policy. It is in the perspective of the government now having to deal with a new bill for new public disclosure law. It is somewhat worrying that a new setback for a principle of disclosure is being taken as an independent matter without being seen in a wider context. In a way, this could have seemed a little different if it had been inserted into a larger context, and you had weighed for and against the total. Then we are back to what the representative Arnstad also had to say, namely that the arguments put forward here could, in essence, be put forward in relation to the individual subject matter. There are costs related to the principle of disclosure. There are occasional discomforts associated with transparency. That's the same thing here. At the same time, one of the important principles that really stood by in 1970 was that there should be transparency during the preparation of the case. It was one of the important principles that was then emphasised. One of the evaluation options at the time was that one should first have transparency after a case was settled. The draft new law on disclosure includes a provision of purpose. It has been highlighted that public control — that is, the ability of the public to control the administration — is part of the objective of the Public Health Act. Then it's a little strange that having a good insight into how the main body for control of the administration, namely the National Audit Office, leads its control, shouldn't be part of what's very important to the public. To be honest, it's a little bit difficult to see that there are so special reasons in this particular area, and that this is the basis for an exception in relation to the main principle that might not have been implemented in other areas. If you had chosen to take this in conjunction with the law as such, you would have had easier to show and identify what other reasons it was right here and that were not consistent with the rest. So finally something that gets more character of a question from my side. Now it may be perceived as suddenly changing the angle of incidence, but there is something in the committee setting that, in my opinion, is a misconception of the current right. It is in the setting on page 18 at the bottom, first column: ‘As part of the audit and control activities, the Riksaudition has, inter alia: the right to receive internal administrative documents. If the administrative documents become public automatically as a result of their transmission to the National Audit Office, the majority would point out that this could create problems both for the administration and the National Audit Office. As a consequence, audit activities will be withheld from the transmission of internal documents to the National Audit Office, which in the event will create major problems for the audit and audit work of the National Audit Office.’ It is – and I think that I can say with a great deal of weight – the law in force that these documents do not become public by means of transmission to the Riksrevision. They maintain their internal character, so that the only thing that becomes public is the document drawn up in connection with the specific audit case. One of the reasons why I take this up is that in my contribution as far as I was aware, the case-rapporteur used this as a heavy argument to propose the rule of deferred publicity as proposed. But what is the result, if this is the rationale? Well, then the result is that when you're past the time phase when you've exposed the public, these documents, based on the same reasoning, will have to be seen as public. It will be a rather dramatic and, to my mind, undesirable extension of the principle of disclosure and publicity in these matters. So I feel in a way that we should perhaps have a clarification of what documents there are you think this is about. Is it the documents that are related to the audit case itself, in other words, that have been drawn up in a way related to it? Or is it also the documents that the committee setting refers to, at my discretion, erroneously, and that, after I understood it, the case-rapporteur placed significant emphasis on as part of the justification?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e395	Like the case rapporteur, I am pleased that a unanimous odelsting seems to be based on the principle that it is not the controlled one, in this case the government and administration, who, according to discretion, will be able to decide for themselves what the inspector, the National Auditor, will see or not see. It is the Riksaudition’s tasks that form the basis for the Riksaudition’s transparency, according to the legal text that it is available. Both the administration, the Government and the National Audit Office, like the rapporteur, should be satisfied that the Stortinge considers that the new provision on the Court of Auditors’ transparency does not imply any restriction or extension of the right of access to the current formal practice. Earlier today, it has been repeatedly stressed that the Riksrevision is the best friend of the Government and the administration. This point, I think, is a reason for repeating and highlighting. Everyone is expected to find faults, defects, or even defects. It is, in fact, a fundamental safeguard mechanism for democracy. However, when we stress that the tasks of the National Audit Office must form the starting point for the wider scope of transparency, it is also important in this perspective to stress that the Riksrevision is not a colleague of the administration and the Government. By doing so, I believe that the Riksrevision must be careful to interpret its tasks extensively. To date, the Riksrevision has, with very few exceptions, balanced the right side between policy assessments and control. The fact that we now – unanimously, it seems – adopts the new paragraph on one of the main instruments of the Riksrevision to carry out one of its extensive and extended tasks, transparency, is a statement of confidence that the Riksrevision is still aware that this distinction is there, and is continuing its activities as the best friend and watchman of the administration. As for what I, as a lawyer, thought about the option of transparency regulation on the part of the Stoltenberg government, which later received preliminary agreement from the sitting government, I have long ago come to realize that there is quite often a big difference between law and politics. Today's debate is probably an example of this. Too many people are merely a tool for implementing policy objectives. I am not sure if I always share that assessment. However, in this specific case of law, I note that the rapporteur and I and the other committee have based the draft draft legislative regulation of the Court of Auditors on transparency, with the necessary clarifications in the form of a comment. Of course, that the law we adopt tonight coincides with most of the conclusion I had in the special task that Hall Arnøy's representative is aiming for. I'm not going to hide it. Although what the rapporteur said is not exactly of great interest in this matter among the majority of people, it must be allowed to enjoy what you feel in between that you have been involved in and contributed to. That it's not always like that in this house, I guess most people can sign it. And once you're categorised as an excellent representative, it's particularly nice to hear it from an honest, well-prepared and serious representative of a party that stands far from me politically, i.e. SV. That's what they say. With regard to the proposal for deferred disclosure, it seems central to us to stress that it is, in fact, the Riksrevision itself that has repeatedly addressed the need for changes in the disclosure law. In 1993, there was a request for the Stortinget, which led to the Harlem Brundtland Government proposal. In 2000, the Riksrevision presented its legislative proposal. In the reply to the case-rapporteur, the representative, Valle, indicated that she asked questions about the motives for the Right now being in favour of exposed publicity, and what may have happened since the last time, and it was probably also followed up by the representative, Mr Hove. Well, what's happened since the last time is that the National Audit Office, on behalf of its employees, has expressed an even clearer desire for such a paragraph as to ensure that you can get a job rest during the period you are in a preparatory and investigative phase, so that you do not give a misleading picture of the business you are set to review. As I see it, the majority's intention is primarily to provide support to the employees of the National Audit Office, so that they can carry out the tasks they are assigned to manage, in the best possible way. It is not primarily an estimate of the public. I think some representatives would like to comment on previous debates on the disclosure law that relate to completely different issues, and press the repeat button. I would like to conclude by saying that the Riksrevision has made an order, and now at last a majority has delivered what the Riksrevision asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e416	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e424	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e431	During the debate, Mr Rød put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e486	For the second paragraph, there is a different proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 4 shall be replaced by the following:The College shall act as the Board of Governors of the National Audit Office and shall deal with matters of an overriding nature in the field of administration and economics. The main task of the college is to deal with professional matters to be submitted to the Stortinget. The Board of Auditors is the senior official of the Agency and is its Executive Director in all matters relating to administrative, economic and professional matters. The college lays down a detailed job instructions for the post.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e664	The Party of Advances, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Left have announced that they are going against the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e850	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e860	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e872	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-lower.ana.ud2228e883	There is no record.
