ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e43	The President of the Grand Duchy will take the opportunity to state further that 6 February is the National Day of the Commonwealth, and that this year is the first time this is also an official flag day. The President allows himself, on behalf of the Stortinget, to congratulate the Sami population on the day. The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e48	On behalf of the representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Thore A. Nistad and myself, I would like to suggest that work be started as soon as possible on the construction of a new E6 between Mjøsbrua and Øyer with four-field motorway standard and with middle parts between the lanes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e53	The representative of May Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e56	On behalf of Magnar Lund Bergo, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to propose that the Human-Ethical Association and other life-view societies and a registered religious community be entitled to conduct partnership.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e61	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e75	The development of audit work, both in the National Audit Office and in the audit at county and municipal level, has in recent years shifted towards more focus on the management audit. It's a development I'm looking at positively. The monitoring does not stop with figures in the accounts, but also the effectiveness, achievement and organisation of various activities are examined and assessed in greater detail, so that policy-makers can see whether the decisions have been followed up. The corrections in the management audit must be clear, however: political decisions and decisions must be followed. The National Audit Office, or e.g. a county control committee does not have a mandate to assess for itself which objectives are important or which policy choices should be taken. We might have to admit that there are grey zones here. If a management audit such as If a politically agreed organisation fails to achieve policy objectives effectively, the audit report must be able to point this out. Some reports may point to a broad approach because they can create a debate on a system. However, control bodies such as the National Audit Office must be very cautious here and guard against the danger of becoming a political actor. The principle must be clear: the control body should not consider the political decisions. The National Audit Board shall not consider Stortinget's decisions and intentions, although I can well understand that there are certain temptations in some cases. I have initiated these fundamental assessments because the Riksrevision in the report we are dealing with today will come very close to making a self-assessment of a decision on the accumulation. To put it this way, the design of the income system for municipalities, with distribution keys and the principle of distribution of income and expenditure adjustment, is actually determined by the Stortinget, not by the Ministry of Local Affairs. The main features of the income system for municipalities that we have today were adopted by the Stortinget in June 1996. Saka was presented on 10 May 1996 by the government of Harlem Brundtland, when Gunnar Berge was the municipal minister, in St.prp. No 55 for 1995-96, on the local economy for 1997. The proposal was largely endorsed by the Grand Duchy, with variable support. Right-wing support The Government in the redistributions as a result of the Rattsø selection's setting, redistribution to larger municipalities, and more central strokes. The Christian People's Party participated in supporting the long transitional arrangements that the Government had proposed, in order to protect small municipalities and district municipalities against rapid income failure, which the Rattsø selection would have led to. So, in general terms, Harlem Brundtland's government had to run out of time to get matters through, and the settings of the Municipal Committee, Innst. S. No So 286 for 1995-1996 is not quite easy to read. Support from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party to the transitional arrangements and the regional policy objectives of the income system should be included and now, was subsidiary, so there are few plural comments in support of this part of the proposition. But if you read the whole setting, there's no doubt that Harlem Brundtland's government got support from a number of people even when it comes to district policy. The point was that the Christian People’s Party and the Center Party would go further than the government in a district - friendly direction. In its report, the National Audit Office, as the majority of the municipal committee also refers to in this setting, assumes that the objective of the income system is for all municipalities in the country to have the possibility to provide the inhabitants with the most equivalent service provision possible irrespective of the country in which they live. At the same time, another plurality of the municipal committee has highlighted that the income system should also take district policy into account and tend to achieve district policy objectives. This political objective, for which the majority of us have been in the Grand Duchy since 1996, has been reflected to a small extent in the Riksrevision's report. Let me go through the main points of the plural, right, Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, their views on the report, as they go about the setting. This majority notes that, according to the Riksrevision, questions can be asked whether sufficient emphasis was placed on the availability of equivalent services at the time of the conversion of the income system in 1997. The majority therefore point out that the income system, with the draft Riksrevision refers to, is actually agreed by Stortinget. I would also like to say that it is difficult to see that the effects of the Riksrevision demonstrate in their report are significantly different from what might be expected from the proposition I mentioned, from the government of Harlem Brundtland. The majority therefore take the view of the Riksrevision for information, as it is called. In other words, and a little bit more directly: here the Riksrevision has committed itself to assessing the income system itself that the Storting has agreed to. It is not, in my opinion, the task of the Riksrevision. As I have already pointed out: the income system aims at more objectives than income equality, it aims, among other things. also against regional policy objectives. In addition, differences in income levels relate to the tax income of municipalities, for example: in connection with taxes on power plants. It has been a clear political objective that municipalities should again have a financial gain to invest in industrial policy and increase local tax access. The consequences of this policy must result in possible differences in income between municipalities. This page of the case has been discussed in the report by the National Auditorate after what I can see. When the Labour Party points out that in 1996 prosperous municipalities are still prosperous municipalities in 2001, it probably has something to do with them, i.e. local tax access and district policy objectives. In addition, I am somewhat uncertain about what the Workers' Party thinks of «prosperous municipalities». Income per year The population is hardly a good criterion here, when we see how different our municipalities are dealing with population numbers and distances. Let me say that I wonder something about what is the working party's actual attitude to the substance of this matter. When the Storting in the fall discussed the cost key for social services, following a suggestion from the Government to introduce a so-called out-of-bank ritual, the Labour Party, represented by its fraction in the municipal committee, opposed this change. The working party wanted to maintain the old system in 2004. The working party's fraction in the control committee has been working on the matter we are discussing today, seems to be looking to be somewhat more friendly towards municipalities in central districts with large social expenditure, than the Labour Party was in the municipal committee before Christmas. I choose to interpret this as if there should be good hope of getting some in this matter the next time she is going up in Stortinget. When it comes to the cost equalization key, the Riksrevision believes that there seems to be a need for an audit more often than every ten years. I don't think I agree with that conclusion, given the stability of the municipalities, but it's a matter for another time. Alternating governments have perceived that it has our support in the Grand Duchy for an audit to take place about every ten years. The next main audit is under way and is likely to take effect from 2007. In addition, the Stortinget has made several adjustments to the key during March, most recently in autumn 2003, with effect from 2004. In any case, I did not think it would be appropriate for the Riksrevision to advise the Stortinget on how often the income system should be revised. So I'm going to go over to the assessments the Riksaudition has made of the quality of its management's operational work on the distribution of income. Here the National Audit Office points to a number of important problems that the departments in question have to deal with. Firstly, the study shows that there are some errors in reporting from the municipalities of the Ministry of Social Affairs on the number of mental retardation, which is the basis for the elimination of expenditure. This may have caused some municipalities to get too much in return, and other municipalities to get too little. The Ministry of Social Affairs has said that they will continue to work with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in order to find out about a better criteria. In the short term, there will be others. consider strengthening the control procedures in connection with the collection of data from municipalities. I expect the government to do what it can to solve the problems that the Riksrevision points to here. At the same time, I would like to support the suggestion from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that it is the responsibility of the municipality to support the correct documentation of mental retardation. Secondly, the Riksrevision takes up the municipal and regional ministry's quarterly distribution of the skin. The National Audit Office questions whether the spatial distribution of client funds is reasonable based on the needs of the municipalities in each state, whether the distribution is too equal from year to year, and whether too much regional policy is taken into account in the distribution. The National Audit Office's indication that the shields do not need to become a fixed source of income for municipalities is correct. At the same time, I must say that it is not surprising that a good number of municipalities with needs that are not captured in the objectively based income system, which one year has the same needs as they have the following year. When it comes to the distribution between the counties, I have noticed that there has been a certain redistribution between the later years – in the direction that the Riksrevision thinks one should go. If Stortinget wants to signal that the department should proceed with such redistribution, I expect that the municipal committee will deal with it at an appropriate rate. The Ministry and the National Audit Office have different views on the extent and manner in which the Ministry is to control its clients’ allocations. The Ministry has drawn up a code to be followed by county councillors in the award of skirmishes. First of all, there must be a reason why the statesmen are following this. At the same time, the Ministry of Constitutional Affairs is responsible for the distribution of funds. I therefore assume that the Ministry is in a position to keep itself informed about the practice of legislation by the county councillors, and I believe that the municipal minister will come into this matter. Finally, perhaps a curiousness: as a long-standing local government representative, I believe that public documents should have an easily accessible language. Some parts of this report do not have it. One example on page 35 shows what I'm looking for: ‘In the 2000 data analysis, the effect of the employer’s tax on social assistance expenditure was not shown to be statistically significantly different from zero.’ By doing so, I recommend the setting from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e145	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e148	I need to take the word to a certain history falsification – as I see it. I am in the lucky situation that I was the case rapporteur on the situation of the Rattsø committee when it was dealt with here in Stortinget. I was also so lucky that I was in municipality Norway and experienced what happened in relation to the position of the Rattsø Committee. The majority here in the house, the Workers' Party and the Right, wanted objective criteria to be used for allocations that applied to the local economy. The Christian People's Party opposed this. The Labour Party, in turn, together with the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party), has provided for a transitional arrangement in which a healthy resource has been injected into the municipal sector. Of course you didn't bring that to the right. But the fresh funds we could take out when Bondevik I came to power in 1997. Here, then, it is the Christian People's Party that has led a negative district policy – and not the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e157	As I said in my post, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party would actually go further when the blatant territorial policy criterion, as I understand it. By that I mean that one would place more emphasis on the development of industry in the municipalities and on the situation of the power stations. There's a lot of difference here. I think it's right that one should encourage the municipalities to pursue district policy – and particular business development. It has one done in my own municipality, and I would like to encourage the municipalities to continue, so that one can get a better result for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e164	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e167	As the rapporteur said, the income system was revised in 1997 on the basis of NOU 1996:1 «A simpler and more equitable income system for municipalities and counties». The national audit has now looked at the significance of this conversion for the development of income differences between municipalities. I experience it so that it is just that, or among other things. what the Riksrevision has done. This conversion of the income system has so far not led to the major upheavals. The municipalities that in 1997 had the most to route with per cent. The population is still the most populous municipalities, and the least favoured municipalities are still the least favoured municipalities. Now this probably isn't that important in itself. The meaning of the income system is that everyone living in this country should have the opportunity to receive the offers offered by society wherever they live and that the quality of these offers should be at the level required by today's society. Of course, there must be differences in our long-term country on how much money is needed to make these offers available at the level they are to be given. Differences in distance, infrastructure, climate, population density, business, etc. Of course, it means something about how these offers are to be made in a sensible way. It is possible that people in our country today move on more than in very many years. This means that the population of certain municipalities, in certain parts of the country, is declining and the population of other parts of the country is increasing. Both parts require specific measures. When the population is reduced, specific measures are required to maintain the supply there, at the level they should be, and to the extent that they should be. In the municipalities that grow in the population, there is a need to increase supply. Here it's important to think of a particular relationship. Because when a reduction in the population is achieved in one place and a growth in the population elsewhere, growth municipalities face a particular problem at one stage, as well as the operational budgets themselves need to be increased because there are more to have school places, more to have elderly care, more to have social assistance, etc. That's that piece of it. The part that we've been very willing to look at and take inwards is the investment that these municipalities are facing. New schools, new institutions, improved infrastructure, etc., which are necessary when the population grows as much over as short periods as it does here, make it necessary to invest. There are few municipalities today that have funds to eat off for such investments. In other words, financial costs are incurred and these financial costs in turn are borne by the operating budget. This is a problem facing, in particular, the municipalities of growth. The criteria underpinning the distribution should not be changed in time and in time. It is also appropriate to have reasonable stability in relation to their weighting. That's what gives predictability in Kommune-Norway. However, when it comes to capturing changes occurring in the population — in the population, in the number of students, in the number of older people, variations in social conditions, etc. – they must be caught preferably faster than what is done today. So predictability is not changing the criteria, but capturing the changes that occur in the population. We consider, from our side, the National Audit Office's report on the income system for the municipalities as a very useful input, and believe that it may be of importance what comes out here, for the overall review that is now to be made by this system of a reduced sample. We're looking forward to that sample finishing its work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e184	Yesterday, during the debate on the Riksrevision report on the effectiveness of hospitals in relation to hip operations, I gave an unreserved tribute to the Riksrevision for a good management audit report. Unfortunately, it will not be possible to repeat that exercise today. This matter focuses in a good way on the role of the National Audit Office and the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, namely to monitor ex post or to be active in policy-making itself. I would like to admit that sometimes it may be difficult to hold your tongue straight in your mouth, not least when it comes to issues where a person or the party has strong opinions about what should have been different, as in this case about the design of the income system for the municipalities. Of course, it will be extremely difficult when the Riksrevision neither manages to keep its tongue straight in its mouth nor its tongue in its right mouth. For what is the Riksrevision doing in the report on which this matter is based? The rapporteur said in his statement that the Riksrevision ‘came very close to making an independent assessment of a decision on the collapse’. That was diplomatic. I would like to say it this way: in this report, the Riksrevision goes unusually far in criticising the Storting's decision on the income system. This is something quite different than controlling the Government. It surprises us that the Labour Party is not also critical of such an approach from the National Audit Office. The fact that the Riksrevision in this case has chosen a wrong approach does not mean that the Control and Constitutional Committee must repeat the same error. And fortunately, the majority of the committee does not, because SV acts neatly and is associated with the government parties in the comments. I want to give the honor to S.V. for this. The working party, on the other hand, acts in my opinion inexorably and messily in relation to both the control perspective and the substance of the matter. I am surprised that the Workers' Party, with all the veterans in the Committee on Control and Constitution, has forgotten the history of the matter. The income system criticised by the Riksrevision is what was presented by the Brundtland Government in 1996, with Gunnar Berge as Minister for Municipal Affairs. On the right, the Government supported at the time in the redeployments followed by the setting of the Rattsø Committee, with a redistribution to larger municipalities and more to central struts. The problem arose, however, when the party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, suddenly moved out and promised that no municipalities would get out worse than with today's transmission system. The result was that the Stortinget finally adopted a change in the income system, but where the transitional arrangements were so numerous and long that the effect of the conversion was greatly reduced. As a magnificent representative of Eastfold, I regret the result of the deliberations at that time. However, as a member of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, I cannot complain about a legally adopted decision in the Norwegian Grand Prix. The Control Committee may not be a venue for rematching the lost battles. The revenue system needs to be reformed – yes. But it is important that this work follows the right channels, with case preparation in the Ministry of Local Affairs and then political treatment in the municipal committee here in the house. The Supervisory Committee shall not, although some members of the Committee may find that it is sad and sceptical, be the active policy-maker. Then the control perspective is completely lost. We are all given the opportunity to participate with life and enthusiasm in the debate on the future income system for municipalities and counties when that matter comes to Stortinget after thorough preparation through sample work and preparation in the Government. If we are not careful here, we are at risk, as in this case, of the Committee of Inquiry adopting positions contrary to what the Municipal Committee is doing and the Stortinget adopting. And then we're really going to run.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e204	The president is a little uncertain about what the representative meant by holding the 'heavy tongue in the right mouth', so he doesn't know whether to charge it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e207	I'm not going to pick up that thread. One would like to discuss the broad and broad principles of the Riksrevision report and whether the Riksrevision has gone too far in its consideration of the income system of the municipalities. If it is the case that the Riksrevision has based its report here on the intentions underlying the 1997 changes, I believe that the Riksrevision has actually done a good job. But if it is that the Riksrevision points out that the changes that were made in 1997, perhaps were wrong, then the Riksrevision may have gone too far. Then we're dealing with this because the Riksrevision might be in the process of mixing its roles. It could be. But the significance of the report that the Riksrevision has made, I think it's a bit exaggerated. Although I, who represents the Progress Party, can say that I agree with the Riksrevision report, at the same time I can say that the significance it has is very small compared to the fact that we have had the Power Investigation, we have had the Effect Committee, and we have the District Commission, where I am a member myself. We also know that the Storting will probably put down a local democratic commission, and we know that the Government has put down a sample to look at the income system of the municipalities. Then this little report from the Riksrevision will largely disappear. Without pointing out what the Progress Party has included in its proposals for budgets towards the municipalities and in proposals for structural changes, I believe that this report actually points to what the Progress Party has always been concerned about: the bias that develops in terms of income balancing and transfer to the municipalities. I listened to the case rapporteur, who pointed out that this might be true of so-called tax-intensive municipalities, which still had the great advantage of having a little more in the municipal register than other municipalities. With all due respect, I think it's wrong. We have the biggest differences between municipalities in the north and municipalities in the south. When we can clearly go in and look at the size of the transfers to the municipalities – and the differences – we see quite quickly that municipalities in Finnmark actually have twice as much in transfers as municipalities that are completely comparable, but located in other parts of the country. That's where the greatest difference is. In fact, there are others who point to it other than the Advance Party. The calculation selection says the exact same thing. Then it may not be so strange that the service provision in some municipalities is of a much better quality and quality than in other municipalities. It can be directly compared to the transfers that take place from this house. Therefore, the Progress Party would have wanted a major shift in the income system. Hopefully we'll get that eventually. But I'm afraid we're going to be in the same situation as we did in 1997, when the Labour Party presented was powdered through long and many transitional arrangements, which also pointed out previous speakers. I think that the differences and bias between municipalities would have been much smaller today – I am willing to admit – if what was the basis for the treatment in 1997 had been adopted in its entirety. And there's some of that that's probably going to be the problem in the future too. When we may have to get a proposal for a new income system, this might be the result again. We actually saw that in December, when the government put forward proposals for a new cost key, where some parties went back on what they had previously stood for. The fear of taking income from some municipalities and transferring them to other municipalities is so great that I am afraid that it can also be the result in the future. This is why it is so important to look at structures in the context of the transfer and income system to municipalities. I'm recording that the Council of State is more than willing to do that, and I'm very pleased, because I'm completely in line with the Council of State in these thoughts. There is a sample of the local authorities' Central Association and the government put down a sample to look at the municipal structure, without me having the great hopes that that sample will come to some conclusion on major structural changes. In this context, we also need to look at the income system and structure. We have to realize that there are changes in Norwegian society. It seems to me that here in the house we don't believe that communication is reinforced; we don't believe that mobility has grown, but that you still have to drive from Levanger to Trondheim to sell your goods. So it's not like that, and that's why changes in this area are absolutely necessary. I also registered that the Workers' Party points out that the municipalities that had a share in 1997, or were rich municipalities, are still rich municipalities today. That's another problem. If we cannot accept that some municipalities generate more income through, for example: what the Advocate General pointed out, facilitating business activities, and not least new business activities, we have a significant problem. But that problem is almost general, because in this house, and also in previous governments, municipalities have been deprived of the opportunity to organise business. There is no longer any incentive for municipalities to facilitate business activities, not least in relation to corporate tax. With all the Commissions and the committees that have now delivered their reports, and those who will in the future deliver their reports, the district commission, local democratic commissions, incomes and structural selections, etc., we will probably get big debates here in the future. The hope is then that we can get along on some structural changes that are based on how we want society and structures to look like in 30 years, not tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e228	The representative Sandberg started something that could have become a very interesting debate about developments over the past and the next 100 years, which I unfortunately have to leave in this round. We are now examining the Riksrevision's report on the income system. The first time I was away in Einstein's theory of relativity as a physics student, I was told that there might be seven people around the world who really fully understand what this means. About that was the first time I met the income system. Often you get a feeling that no one really knows exactly what happens every time you change a detail in the income system. We saw this last time here in Stortinget when we changed at the time of the census of the population of a municipality, on the grounds that some of the municipalities of growth were going to earn it, and a few months later, letters from the same municipalities of growth came that they had lost it on. The income system is complicated matter. That's why I think it's absolutely necessary that the government has now set down a sample to carry out an overall review of the income system. It is good to see that there is also a unanimous committee that wants this sample to take up and evaluate a number of the things the Riksrevision has pointed out. I assume that it is a matter of course that this work done by the National Audit Office becomes relevant to that sample. We have also had some debate here on the role of the National Audit Office in relation to ex post control and the inclusion of policy-making. The views of the SV are clear from the comments of the majority. But I also want to say that the Storting may sometimes make it a little difficult for the Riksrevision to know what control is, and what policy is, by the fact that the Storting itself sometimes first adopts a goal and then makes decisions that go far beyond this goal, without daring to stand by that we have gone from our own goals. A nearby example for my part is, for example: For the first time, the Storting adopted a target of reducing, or stabilising, CO2 emissions in 1989. We would have made it easier for the Riksrevision to know when they could go in and check if the Storting's intentions were fulfilled, if we actually dare to say from when the Storting's intentions are changed. Even though the Riksrevision gets a little scrape here, there might also be reason to think about this house in relation to the dryness of saying when we've gone away from the ideal goals we'd once set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e240	The central party shares its views mainly in the case when it comes to the distinction that he drew up between the Storting's political decisions and the Riksaudition's control tasks. It is such that the plurality of a population has also given rise to different considerations in the income system than to purely mathematical distribution principles. Let me just comment on a few points. So, first of all, when it relates to the distribution of income, it's historical decisions, like, for example. taxes on power to some municipalities, and it is a matter of regional policy which has been decided upon. We read the report so that the loss compensation introduced in relation to the follow-up to the Rattsø system was important in order to avoid abrupt changes in the income system. It's right as it's already said here: we would have another and greater compensation. When it comes to cost-sampling, the Ministry rightly points out that it is difficult to find reliable cost keys. For this reason, it will also be the case when it comes to dithering that political choices are being made. The last example is the new cost key for drugs and psychiatry, where this document states that research tasks will help in relation to new keys. The research that resulted when a multiple of the last key was changed was ambiguous. On the contrary, the ministry itself detected changes and losses for some municipalities that would have increased the cost of spending, which in fact would have had more money because they have additional costs resulting from drugs and psychiatry or social services. When it comes to discretion, the idea is to be able to smooth out both permanent tasks, which some municipalities cannot solve with the resources they have, and tasks of a temporary nature. After the document, we can say that it is certainly very good that there has been a careful arrangement for local authorities when it comes to resource-demanding clients. The common goal, which we often point to, of the equivalent welfare provision across the whole country, I believe that we all have to see that we can't be solved by an allocation per. head alone. So there's going to be a political balance how the distribution is going to happen. But it is actually so that today there are some municipalities that have vacant places in kindergarten and school. They could have filled up with several children both in the nursery and in the school. But there is no more in the municipality, and it is quite wrong to draw them for income for that reason, because the basic costs will be the same. Having a kindergarten in operation with a certain number of departments and having a school in operation with a certain class number of costs. But then there are other municipalities that are in strong growth, and then it has to be taken care of. Here we can get examples in a lot of ways that show that there have to be some balances. When Kautokeino is 20 times larger than Oslo and larger than both Akershus and Østfold combined, it goes without saying that it is more expensive for Kautokeino per. head of running schools and other facilities with only 3,000 inhabitants than it is for a municipality where one hits quite nicely in relation to the class number, and where people live much closer. From the Center Party's point of view, we would like the Ministry to allow Stortinget to lift its head a little bit more when it comes to the income system, and that one also looked at the consistency between the tasks that Stortinget expects the municipalities to solve, and the means at their disposal. There is no doubt that there are several reforms that have been underfunded. Now there is hope for this, because the consultation system with KS is in place. But there's also a private point that could have our subject of separation more follow-up than today, and that's the expectations of what the free incomes can contribute to. There is initial agreement between the KS and the Ministry, and insofar as the size of the budget is concerned, in relation to the different additional costs that will be incurred in various areas during a new financial year. But then there are great expectations as to what the free income can contribute. I mean, it's not really going to work out. This is something that Storting must come back to. The center part has picked up several times, and also the other part, but it's not home to start something here. But the Center Party is not on the committee. If we were, of course, we would have been behind the same observation that we've been with SV about in the municipal committee's settings, that it's wrong to expect the municipalities, when they get free income, to spend the money several times. Now, a selection has been created to look at the income system, so we'll be able to get back to this, both in the annual budgets and when the selection presents its setting. But the National Audit Office might also be able to assess if they were going to look at the consistency between the tasks of Stortinget and the funds that are being sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e261	There has been a tendency to turn this debate into a general community economic debate. That's what I'm going to try to avoid by not taking up all the little balls that might have been here, and just focusing on some of the themes mentioned in the setting up of the Control and Constitutional Committee. I agree with Siri Hall Arnøy who says that for some reason such a report is coming, perhaps we politicians are not good enough to be honest about what choices we make. It will be very difficult to run administrative audits if the objectives are not clearly set out in the documents in place and if political compromises obscure what are the original objectives. I think we all do. Revising 'double-talk', which perhaps all of us politicians do in between, is probably a difficult task. We could of course say, look at this, that's exactly what we said! Of course. In the previous review of the income system, we were unable to achieve the objective that someone at that time had of greater equality and cohesion. But a lot has happened since that time. In particular, the loss compensation scheme was dismantled in 2001 to be more in line with the criteria on which the Rattsø system was based in five years — from 2001 to 2006. In this way, a lot has happened since then, and we're about to get into a slightly different income system. It is not that the system has remained silent in other areas either. New housing criteria have been implemented, which have largely given places with scattered settlements better counting after this time. There are criteria in the field of drugs and psychiatry that will improve the count-out of larger cities. In addition, more recent taxes and population figures are added to the income system, both through the current revenue balance from the year 2000 and by new population figures from 1 January 2003. It doesn't necessarily mean that it's easy to see what effect this gets. An increase in the population resulting in a census in the income system is still an increase in the number of over 80 years of age and in the number of children in school age. The fact that we get young people without children who pay taxes does not necessarily give the municipalities income. Nor does it give the municipalities exceptional expenditure related to the offer to be made to them in the local government sector. It is important to think through that there are some groups that cost. Then we have set up an income system selection to review whether the weighting is correct and whether the criteria are correct, with special mandates in some areas. The committee will also look at the question of whether municipal sizes should be an external cost, i.e. not to compensate directly because you perceive it as a municipal size, but because you see it as a wild size. In any case, it is necessary to have a decision-making basis if you want to make changes towards a system that makes it more neutral if you choose to make a municipality association or not. But all such elections will eventually lead to difficult political discussions and redistribution of money. When it's a desire for us to update faster, I'm also for it in some areas where we see that we should have a better factual basis at an earlier date. Among other things, we have now changed the key in the drugs and psychiatry area – or the social key in the system. It then revealed the significant difference between the composition of social aid expenditure in 1992–93 — on which these figures were originally based — and how they were in 2001. Among other things, the fact that we have had significant numbers of immigrants in the country was revealed, which can also be seen from part of social statistics, because they are at least more difficult to get into work quickly. But how fast we can make changes, I think the example of loss compensation schemes shows. In general, we spend five years integrating new criteria and new arrangements into the income system, and we have spent almost a ten to twelve year round reviewing the entire income system. I just want to say, how fast can we make big changes if we make the small changes in between? I don't think we're going to have too much ambition to do that, because it's hard to make changes that re-distribute strongly between municipalities in the short term. The municipalities that may receive less money must downgrade their activity in relation to it. Of course, it's more difficult to downgrade the activity than to gradually build it up. I think most people will realize that it is. In the National Audit Office’s survey, among other things, there were shortcomings in the reporting by municipalities of the number of mentally retarded persons. It's an area where we see weaknesses. This year we have had an exemplification of this which has been very visible. So we've strengthened the reporting and the control by drawing out 100 municipalities to control the numbers. It was then discovered that some municipalities did not report correctly in relation to the background material and the documentation they had. When there were two ways to correct the numbers, one in four municipalities still had no way of correcting them. This resulted in a decision to receive 100 pst. compensation, and do not pay 20 pst. proportion, which was the government's starting point for precisely motivating the municipalities to report correctly. It is clear that it will also be a little important that there will be consequences of not following up on the reporting. If not, the sum would be that it's not that important, because you'll always have to clean it up at a later date. We have said that we are coming back to a review of that particular issue in the revised national budget. We have followed up the decision to raise the population, as it was taken, and redistributed the money between all the municipalities of the country to ensure that the four municipalities get what is correct from the facts. But we think we need to have a discussion about the question. Can we have a system where there won't be any consequences for a municipality when they have two possibilities to correct things, and they can't? Then we're about to get a system that's getting very uneasy, because we might have to redo the distribution of money very late. So this time we did it on December 19th last year. Now it wasn't about large sums that most municipalities had major problems, but it meant, among other things. that some of the larger municipalities had to pay between 1 and 1.5 million. kr to other municipalities. The last point I want to mention is the beauty pot. I agree that we should reduce the discretionary spot in the interests of predictability. We should get away from the fact that some municipalities in some way have a permanent lot in the discretionary pot, and from the fact that the discretionary pot becomes more a pot for those municipalities that have extraordinary problems. We've just had examples that our income system is not perfect. And the fact that we're never going to have an income system that's capable of detecting all the different situations that arise in the municipalities, makes some municipalities have to get something of the discretion, for example. As a result, in relation to the drug problem and the psychiatry problem — with regard to the criteria put in place, there may be some municipalities that are going out of their way because they have an exceptional situation in this area. There need be no exceptional short-term situation; it may also be an exceptionally long-term situation. So I agree that we have had a historical and traditional distribution between the states. We've been gradually trying to do something about this by allowing the last few years more of the distribution of the discretionary funds to the statesmen to be proportional to the population. There is no doubt that, for example: Finnmark states historically and traditionally have received a very large proportion of the discretionary hunch, while through the income system they have received a great deal of compensation. So the community has less opportunity to provide help to the municipalities that are in acute crises in counties that have less available assets in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e287	The representative, Mr Engeset, has already explained to the Right's view of the relationship between control and policy-making, so I am not going to discuss that in detail here. As a representative of Akershus County, I can agree that for years this county and its municipalities may have been going awry in terms of the income system. It's not a negligible understatement. I was able to make flaming statements about it, and I also assume that there is some of the motivation for the Workers' Party's comments in the vote by the Control Committee. There is a need to look at the extent to which the income system is failing. That is, of course, entirely in agreement with the Right. In this context, this report is partly a useful basis for such a future debate and for any further reforms. Some work is already in progress, and I will therefore not discuss the things that the Council of State has taken up, which we also refer to in the remarks. Well what is so important is something that is not mentioned here today, and it is that the work on increasing the freedom of municipalities and the real possibility of prioritizing within their own framework is continued. One of the most important reforms that can be made is that all of us 165 representatives, who will soon be even more – we will become 169 – are trying to avoid being ‘extra rapporteurs’ for all the municipalities of the country, which in total make it less possible for municipalities to be the local decision-making body they should be, with the clear starting point that local authorities and the population usually know a lot more about where the shoe is pressing than what we are doing. So what you could really ask for to make income systems work is that each big business representative and the Storting show a certain humility in relation to local democracy and in relation to those who are set to manage the resources they create themselves or we allocate them. Otherwise, it is also a bit interesting that my experience from the county municipality has shown that there is some kind of dynamics in this. When you adopt budgets in the county council in my home state, the county committee is saying that there's going to be a budget settlement, because you have a little feeling about that. You spend 20 million. kr on advance. Then you get 37 million. SEK – and then you have 17 million. NOK to which you can use. It shows that there's some kind of dynamics in this, that's this predictability you're occupied with. What's predictable is that you tap extras, and then, in the end, there'll be a black player game that makes everyone look worse, because after all, there's a limited amount to distribute. All this last one has nothing to do with this report. But when the municipal committee is represented, it's usually mentioned a little bit extra. We can, of course, use some of the principles that should apply to local freedom as an additional backtrace when this report is to be used to make the income system more equitable also for those states that have population growth. As Akershus representative and right-wing representative, I am, like the representative Engeset, a little surprised at the position of the Labour Party in the Committee. When we treated St.meld. No 6 a.m., the Labour Party went against the changes that the Riksrevision is showing in the report. The changes that were made were adopted by the votes of the Government Parties and the Advance Party. I could imagine asking what the Workers' Party really thinks about the income system. In a previous speech, there was a problem about ‘heavy tongue’ being parliamentaryly correct. I have at least checked that talking to two tongues has not been clubbed down. I would say that the Labour Party has done so in this case. They speak with two tongues in relation to the comments here and what has actually been said in the municipal committee in the past. Because we're not going to run politics here today, I'm not going to ask questions about what the Workers' Party means, but I have some incredible expectations on behalf of the Right of what the Workers' Party is going to do in the Municipal Committee. The control fraction has already in many ways already designed something that can be a good policy for the future, and I really hope that the Labour Party's municipal fraction and the Workers' Party's large-scale group follow up what the Workers' Party's control fraction here uses as a policy design in its comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e305	I'll quote some short lines from the Workers' Party's note, where reference is made to the report: ‘In the view of these members, this leads to an overall review of the income system. These members are therefore satisfied that the Government, as announced in the 2004 Municipal Proposition, has set up a sample to carry out an overall review of the income system.» I don't think the tongue can be less clumsy or more straight than this. It seems that we are the only party that admits that the means that we have used to achieve the ambitions that we have on behalf of people in the different municipalities are not working. And then I have to say to the representative Martin Engeset, it's not the Riksrevision's fault. The National Audit Office, through its report, has demonstrated point by point that the instruments we have adopted do not work as intended. We have to be able to take that inward without going into defensive positions because this may happen at a certain point in time to a government where representatives from different parties are members. I have to say that in the Labour Party we assume that we have also been involved in designing rules that are not good enough and that do not give the necessary results. And at least I'm not going to owe the Riksaudition because they've pointed this out. After all, it must be allowed – and perhaps from time to time necessary – for the National Audit Office to carry out an administrative audit and to try to review how the various instruments work as we put in place to achieve political ambitions, without going to the trenches and saying: No, this is what you get away from, because the Storting has decided. Who is going to help us find out what mistakes we have made and how we are going to fix them in order to achieve a better result? That is why I recommend getting out of the trenches and using the information provided in the National Audit Office's report to improve the system. We are a country with huge challenges in the future, where we need to integrate a lot of people into new social structures. It's quite right that Kjell Engretsen points out, people move a lot more than before. We need to find systems that are more flexible and catch up faster, so we don't let municipalities and residents get into trouble. And then we have to be willing to see that in the long run, this also has meaning for what municipal structure we're going to have. It is the Storting that, through the ambitions we have on behalf of most people in this country, must decide whether the municipalities should actually be of such size that it is possible to implement what we have imposed on them. Then we can't just lean back and say, "No, the municipalities will take responsibility for that." It's this house that pulls up the terms, it's this house that authorizes the Government to make measures, and it's this house that has to take the consequences of politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e315	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e318	When we dealt with the report of the Frøiland Committee, the case-rapporteur, Jørgen Kosmo, stated that the Riksrevision should not have a proactive role, and it was quite problematic. The work of the administrative audit consists in checking whether the decisions and assumptions of the Storting are met, not if they were incorrect. I would just like to ask a question to the representative of Kosmo: to what extent does the representative of Kosmo still stand for these comments on the proactive role of the National Audit Office, and to what extent will he take the corresponding offensive position when we are dealing with the new law of the National Audit Office and its instructions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e327	The Stortinget shall draw its conclusions in the light of the reports of the Riksrevision. The national audit reports will hopefully also point to errors and shortcomings in the future – and correct decisions – so that the Storting achieves its objectives. On the basis of this report, I find no reason to conclude that the Riksrevision has taken on a new role. On the contrary, I believe that the documentation provided and the studies carried out here by the National Audit Office are a good basis for the Stortinget to have a treatment that might make better decisions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e332	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e352	On Friday 30 January, there was an article on director Harald Zwart of Fredrikstad – and his wife – who have established themselves in the United States. In this article, we can, among other things: read the following: ‘You’ve made several commercials in Old Town. When do you come with hot actress names and make feature films in Norway?» He said: "We'd like to do that. In this country, there is a high technical level, a professional environment, and a high level of action.’ Further, we read: ‘But the couple agree with Truls Kontny in the Norwegian Film Commission, which has said that it is difficult to lure film producers to Norway because it is too expensive. A number of countries have facilitated film projects.’ What this interpellation is about is what opportunities we have to facilitate so that Fredrikstad-manner Harald Zwart can also produce long-range films in Norway, not just advertising films. The audiovisual industry is on a strong footing in the world and must be regarded as one of the growth industries in the future. This has been recognised by more and more countries and has been committed to both self-production and, not least, attracting foreign output by facilitating this. There are several reasons why countries have been able to attract large-scale film productions. It may be the nature that lures, it may be that environments in the field of film production are constructed with the necessary qualifications and locations and that tax incentives or aid schemes are available to attract. Bringing foreign film and TV producers here increases the total volume of production, thus also the possibility of stable employment for all subcontractors. An example of an area with exciting results is Trollhättan in Sweden, where a production environment has been built that has so far created 1 100 jobs. Several audiovisual productions, including Norwegian, have seen the light of day there. Iceland has undertaken to market its special nature and to organise it through infrastructure and tax incentives. This led to parts of the last James Bond film being recorded in Iceland. I don't know if the Minister of Industry is an avid cinematographer, but he can't have avoided hearing about the films "The Lord of the Rings", which have been recorded in New Zealand. The films are also recommended. New Zealand has used this as tourism advertising, and it is said that New Zealand has gained considerable interest as a travel destination as a result of these films. One calculates that the films have left about. 850 million. kr on New Zealand. It is also said that the three films employed approx. 3 000 people over five years of age. Ireland has also succeeded in attracting larger international productions, and they have, among other things, based on the production of the film ‘Reign of Fire’. It got 2.9 million. pounds in support and left 39 million. pounds. We also have good examples here in Norway. The book ‘Dina’ by Herbjørg Wassmo was filmed and turned into the film ‘I Am Dina’, which the Minister of Industry probably remembers, with both well-known Norwegian and foreign actors. The film was recorded on Kjerring Island, and one has measured that the tourist visit increased by 30 pst. after recording. The Danes produced a film on Geilo called «My sister's children in the snow». It was seen by 650 000 Danes, and was an excellent marketing of Norway as a winter vacation site. Norway already has good film and media environments, well spread across the country. I can mention the studio at Jar in Bærum – otherwise there are installations in Tromsø, Bergen, Stavanger, Film 3 in Inland and the media center in Fredrikstad. There is already a lot of expertise here that is fully capable of cooperating with foreign producers. Norway has a diversity to offer. In addition, we have several training places in audiovisual production – examples include Lillehammer, Volda and Bergen, just to name a few. Many young people today train in creative industries, and it is important for them that job opportunities are available afterwards in Norway as well. Why have I raised this matter? Well, I think Norway should definitely be a country where it is possible to do what others have done, namely attract international productions. First of all, we have a nature that should be attractive to the film industry. It is said that here in the country can create both winter and summer scenes at the same time, if necessary. We have an infrastructure in the form of airports that is quite unique, and it's relatively easy to get to the different areas. We have a population that is highly educated. Most people speak English and can thus work in these environments, or such environments can be created. The authorities have established Norsk Filmfond. In addition, one has stated that one has a goal of increasing Norwegian film production to around 20 per cent. years. This alone can lead to an increase in the number of persons employed in the audiovisual industry. In addition, the NRK has been required to release a minimum of 10 pst. of its own output to non-resident environments. According to the Evening Post of 30 January, Fredrikstad Municipality has already seen the benefits of having a production environment in the city. They claim, among other things: This leads to more jobs – not only for those professions a rainer as typical in the film industry, but also for craftsmen such as carpenters, electricians, etc. are important for industry and production. What measures can this take to attract the audiovisual industry in Norway? Let me mention some of those in other countries: Tax credit: national authorities may offer discounts on costs related to the production of films in their own country. Tax credit: there may be schemes that defer tax or act as interest-free loans from tax authorities. Such schemes are usually not designed specifically for the film industry, but also work for it. Loan support: national authorities offer loans on some occasions on much more favourable terms than the market is willing to provide. Ticket support: This is a scheme that we already have in Norway. The scheme is linked to a movie movie screening, where producers benefit from performance-based support. Subsidies: direct aid is granted to producers from national authorities — usually in countries with limited means of covering production costs in their domestic market. Cheap facilities and bartering: A number of countries can offer cheap services to film producers due to socio-economic factors such as low pay, low studio costs and cheap support services. Alternatively, producers may be offered access to facilities in exchange for holdings in production. Co-productions: they themselves do not represent an aid scheme but are largely created to ensure access to aid schemes in more than one country. A number of such schemes have been established in several countries, including the United Kingdom, Ireland and the United Kingdom. Australia, Canada, Belgium, France, Ireland, Iceland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany have selected schemes to attract this industry. I have chosen this interpellation to address the Minister of Industry as responsible for contributing to the creation of new industries in Norway. Furthermore, this is a recording from my side to new possibilities. The government has chosen to call its plan for a comprehensive innovation policy ‘From Idea to Value’. My goal of this interpellation is to create a debate and then an idea. I hope the Government can help convert it to a value. There are several possibilities to pick up this glove. I'm excited to hear what the Minister of Industry says.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e426	At least let me clarify already initially on the question the interpellant had about whether the Council of State was interested in cinema. It can be confirmed. As for the "Lord of the Rings", I think the DVD archive at home – which I don't personally log – contains everything that had to do with these films – otherwise very nice movies. So the question that the interpellant raises is whether I see the construction of an audiovisual industry in Norway as a possible field of activity. The representative points out that in this context there are other countries that have been and are leading countries because they have succeeded in attracting film productions and other audiovisual productions. This production has provided significant resources locally and has given good marketing to countries as tourist destinations. There's no doubt about it. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade allocates 100 million more than each year. kr to what was previously the Norwegian Tourist Council. Norway’s Tourist Council has now entered as part of the newly created company Innovation Norway. The funds The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade grants to the Norwegian Tourist Council section of Innovation Norway, go to the marketing abroad of Norway as a destination. Norway’s Tourist Council has a number of strategies for investing in different markets. So far, the marketing of Norway as a separate country for film production has not been given the highest priority. However, filmmaking is not an inexperienced medium. The Norwegian Tourist Council sponsored, inter alia: the film referred to by the interpellant, ‘I am Dina’, from Kjerringøy, which was otherwise also a great film. The Tourist Council has also sponsored a Danish family film where most of the recordings were made at Geilo in winter. These films have been widely used by the Norwegian Tourist Council in many different events to sell Norwegian nature and Norwegian culture. When Norwegian actors are in the films, they have held events under the direction of the Norwegian Tourist Council. Regional film funds have also been initiated in some parts of the country. At Lillehammer, the «Film 3» fund has been established and in Bergen the corresponding fund «Fuzz» has been established recently. The regional funds have been intended to co-finance the production of films, subject to the production of the film within their geographical area. It also makes it interesting for private companies that are engaged in marketing their region, to raise funds. The newly created company Innovation Norway also granted 20 million. kr for 2004 for so-called culture-based business development, where film production is included. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is also looking at the importance of the cultural and creative industries in the Norwegian economy. Consideration will also be given to the potential for growth and development opportunities in the sectors. I expect that the results of that work will be available by August of this year at the latest. It is not easy to measure the impact of such films on the sale of Norway as a tourist nation and destination. For example, the film «I am Dina» did not become the audience success that one had expected, despite international actors. The audiovisual sector is at the intersection of culture and industry. In Norway, the audiovisual sector is characterised by the fact that we are a small language area, and that Norwegian films have fewer earnings than large, international films. Therefore, the State grant schemes are established for cultural policy purposes, i.e.: that they are to maintain a certain production of Norwegian films in order to promote audiovisual productions as cultural expressions and to ensure a good diversity of Norwegian audiovisual offerings. Subsidies for audiovisual production are also a key instrument to contribute to the promotion of Norwegian language, culture and narrative tradition. In view of this, the grant schemes are to a small extent aimed at attracting foreign film projects, although grants may also be granted to co-productions between Norwegian and foreign producers. One of the instruments for attracting foreign film projects to Norway is the initiative of the Norwegian Film Commission. The Commission aims to facilitate information for foreign actors wishing to record their films in Norway. From 2002 onwards, the Norwegian Film Commission received an annual subsidy from the Ministry of Culture and the Church. The Film Commission has its own web pages on the Internet, where Norway is marketed as a location for such recordings. In the 2003 government budget, the NRK changed its VAT rate so that the institution can deduct VAT from external TV and film purchases. At the same time, the NRK was asked to release 10 pst. of the programme production of external producers. This too, as the interpellant pointed out, can help to strengthen the audiovisual industry in Norway. In the context of the examination of the 2004 budget of the Ministry of Culture and the Church, Stortinget asked the Government to present by 1 March this year a separate case assessing the economic framework conditions for Norwegian film production. It is therefore not natural for me to go into all the details and different elements of what has to do with the government's film policy. So it'll come later this spring. However, it must also be said that there are no concrete plans to introduce own support schemes for foreign film production in Norway. To the extent that the film companies are looking for fantastic nature as a background for their actions, Norway will, after all, be among the absolutely current locations. However, I see it as most natural – not least in the light of the budgetary procedure that took place not very long ago in this house – that the theme addressed by the interpellant is being implemented in the strategies that Innovation Norway is now making. In addition to all the places mentioned, there are a lot of places – I kept saying the coast around – that are concerned with culture-based business development and the creation of jobs, and I've been around and looking at some of them. There's no doubt that these are industries that definitely have the future ahead of them. There are industries that will be able to operate to a very large extent in part independently of our Norwegian cost level, and which clearly have opportunities in themselves. As I said, following this interpellation debate, I will address this with Innovation Norway to draw attention to the fact that the Storting said something about this both in the budget and in this interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e460	I understand that the Council of State cannot stand and promise a lot in an interpellation debate. But at the same time I am a little disappointed that he was not more active in his reaction to the interpellation. On 12 February – two days after the Government will present further plans for Innovation Norway – there will be a large conference at Lillehammer where the question is: Is culture the fastest growing industry today? There they will focus precisely on the film industry and on the audiovisual industry as an opportunity to increase employment and get an exciting industry in Norway. In addition, the Council of State referred to the Tourist Council and cultural economic development. Culturally-based nutrient development and the resources that lie there have also come on a proposal from the Workers' Party, which we are very proud of. But this is not much money, nor are we supposed to use Norwegian film funds to produce foreign films in Norway. Our goal is to make the opportunities that lie both in the competence environment and in Norway as a nation to attract foreign producers. So we have a huge environment in Norway when it comes to film production. I stand here with a catalogue that is now presented at the Berlin Film Conference, where Norway has a film in the main competition. It is a Norwegian-American film called ‘Beautiful Country’, with Norwegian director and Norwegian and American producers. There are great possibilities. In connection with the film announcement, which is now coming in the spring, I hope the Minister of Industry can talk to the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Finance, and that together they can be a little creative in relation to that announcement. If not, I hope the Storting can follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e478	I agree with the inter-pellant's suggestion of the possibilities that lie here – there is no doubt about them – and also in other areas of culture. I feel quite convinced that in the future it will be so that many new jobs will be created in this area. We see that in the rest of the world, and it will also apply to us. The question becomes, as the interpellant now was about, how we're going to be able to make visible the possibilities that we have de facto. ‘Beautiful Country’ is a maximum appropriate title for a film. Here we have absolutely a lot to contribute. There is no doubt that many of the major films that have been large marketers for their country are found to be related to nature — definitely. On a visit to Switzerland no more than a year ago, I was also there that first James Bond film was recorded, and saw the synergy it had actually had over a 30-year period in relation to business development. So there is no doubt that the representative Fossli is addressing is highly relevant. How we're going to do this, we're going to have to come back and look at it. But let me say it this way in relation to the fact that the next Tuesday was mentioned, when we kind of take a kind of kick-off related to innovation: I think this could be one of the areas where there might be a basis for going on. We're going to launch five-eight major projects right from the start, just linked to providing the opportunities that we de facto have in the Kingdom in different areas. It is then intended that we should address new areas as – I was saying – the capacity requires it, so that we can look at the effects of food-specifically. And with such a starting point as that interpellant has attached to the possibilities of the film industries with us, it could be a project that has an absolute future for itself. I'll definitely look at this, I won't say with goodwill, because it's pure, cut the senses. Not long ago I was in Stavanger and looked at a large cultural project that is being launched in old factory premises. From Lindesnes to Nordkapp we see that in the context of the abandoned old industry, buildings are preserved, and culture of all kinds, including small Norwegian film companies, which I believe will eventually prove to be competitive. Both from the Ministry and, not least, from Innovation Norway, which sits and carries out the priorities, I will definitely take this with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e493	If we want to exploit the potential of this industry, the question is: do we need to target the drug, or will nutrition neutrality focus on the general framework conditions be enough? Or are the special tools that we already have, and as the Council of State was in, everything from Innovation Norway to Norway's Council of Exports, enough to stimulate and speed this industry? This is the core of the interpellation debate. The experience is that if we are to get a certain amount of film production here, we must be aware that we are competing with countries that operate with special tools. Then we can just as much like we like the net pay scheme for seafarers or the rent tax. Without the same conditions as competing countries, Norway does not benefit from competition. The interpellant has pointed to a range of tools. This should be taken into account by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Whether there is a direct cost in relation to the agency indicates that there is a socio-economic net gain. We experience that traditional industry and a large part of primary industry wear. We should not only fight for these, but also facilitate and stimulate new industries with high growth potential. Cultural nutrition is the strongest growing industry in the Western world. Here we have a great and untapped potential here too. A private program in the SND that the Council of State was in, the one called Innovation Norway, and a But it was improperly difficult to get an understanding of this at the Government and at the Minister of Industry. I am also pleased with what the Minister of Industry is now saying that this is being followed up, and that he expressed a completely different positive attitude to this. In film production and the film industry, new activities, workplaces are widely available both directly and as ring-fences. This is certainly also an act that the districts can take advantage of where film production is going on. It's got a lot of stuff. the interpellant shown many examples here. In particular, the tourism industry, which is a wide range of places, will benefit greatly. This is a labour-intensive activity in which different professional environments can contribute, and thus an activity that can have a major impact on the environment. Norway should have good leadership with its nature and its facilities to create something here. I see, for example: the film environment built up on Lillehammer, with Film 3, the film education on the high school, the Knowledge Park and other cultural and experience industries, as important elements. Here is a business environment with zeal and competence for new creative industries. Here, the Gudbrand Valley, with all its natural and man-made facilities, can be exploited as scenes, and here are also studio facilities like the OL halls and studios on the high hill. It is important to create business clusters in this area, too, audiovisual clusters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e510	The film and TV field is an exciting meeting between the stock exchange and the cathedral. There is no doubt in cultural policy that the audiovisual industry will be at the heart of the future. As the Council of State was in it, this field is very important for the bridges we need to build between industry and culture, between industrial policy and cultural policy. It is through this that we can strengthen our home path for a good creative enterprise, that creativity from the cultural area infects the business area and like vice versa. In the context of the Culture Communication, we will certainly address issues such as tax incentives, organised charging schemes and some of the other issues that have been mentioned here today. From the Right, these are issues that will clearly be interesting, but then put into a film policy whole, where traditional support schemes and cultural policy issues, such as linguistic ties and country of origin, have to be included. The interpellant cited New Zealand as an example. Yes, they have good tax incentives, but they have quite little with grant schemes or cultural policy instruments, as we know it. Among the most interesting newcomers in Norway are the regional film funds. Film 3 and FUS have been cited as examples of this. Here, there are just links between local business, regional commitment and public funds and cultural producers – that is, films in this case. Here we see an interesting cooperative where the cultural actor also gets part of the value chain in a positive way for all parties. Regional film funds are established as a permanent scheme in Europe. In spite of this, it has offered problems to clear up Norwegian initiatives in relation to EU bodies. This is a work we have to intensify. There is no reason Norway should not have the same opportunities as elsewhere in Europe. The creative industries, with the cinema as a good example, are one of the strongest growing areas in the Western economy. I assume that we have taken inwards that the period of the traditional manufacturing industry in Norway is far from over. The value creation of the future will be about our ability to find good ideas and translate them into economically profitable activities. In this context, cultural life is a great resource. And in the future, we should use the film as an example in a broader discussion about how we can create fertile arenas and economic assumptions to exploit it. Film is an international industry, as mentioned here. And there is no doubt that we need to have framework conditions that also make this field competitive, as in the case of shipping or other export industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e531	The representative of Fossli has put the film industry on the political agenda with this interpellation. Price Waterhouse Cooper has reviewed the socio-economic effects of Norwegian film production and has looked at the economic incentives realised in some other countries to attract value creation through increased production. Ring effects in terms of workplaces, export revenues and indirect effects of film and television production are unfortunately relatively modest in Norway today, but may have a potential for development and growth if the framework conditions are improved. When the interpellant points to the possible use of tax incentives, I would like to say welcome after! It is positive that the Workers' Party is now assessing tax relief to a greater extent. That's what the Progress Party has been doing all along. First, businesses must be given the opportunity to make the most of the cake before it becomes a question of distribution. The prerequisite for attracting creations and budding within the film industry and in other areas is the existence of an environment and a market, and the establishment of competitive framework conditions by the authorities. We must understand that the major social changes that result from the globalisation of the economy and the technological revolution also have implications for the framework conditions. The Progress Party believes that Norway should be involved in the development process, requiring a new industrial policy in the broadest sense. Such a policy must include all the framework conditions affecting the competitiveness of industry in addition to traditional industrial policy. I would like to refer to the proposal of the Progress Party in the financial position on tax relief, which, overall, provides a much lower level of burden than the alternatives of other parties. This may compensate for some handicap establishments located in Norway. We believe that the principle of nutrition neutrality can lie at the bottom, so that all industries can in principle succeed with addresses in Norway. But that doesn't mean we're raising the neutral tabs so high that the shadows of reason, which are in ensuring that we have competitive framework conditions in the areas where we already have competence in Norway, or have obvious advantages, such as: biomarine sector, energy, offshore and maritime sector. It may be wise to switch to countries that have succeeded in developing a successful industry based on an active industrial policy. The aim must be to involve new and more industries and industries. In this way, lower taxes and taxes and greater opportunities to compete on State active instruments can help the film industry and other industries find it attractive to start up, develop activities, hire more people and remain in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e546	I'll give praise to the interpellant who's taken up this theme. I know that I get very enthusiastic when I sit and listen to the debate. This is also about using cultural skills to develop jobs and at the same time contribute to the production of something that gives content in people's lives and everyday lives. Looking for content, I got good proof when I saw everyone in tent camp outside Bergen Kino waiting for tickets to the Lord of the Rings. And then it's about how to develop Norway as a knowledge nation and a cultural nation. In our opinion, film production is actually part of the new nation building. In the 1950s, all countries would have their own airline. Now all countries want their own film industry. This kind of development will help SV to support up-to-date, also because culture is a much warmer way of building the nation than through one-sided investment in technology, and can be part of the greater diversity of jobs that we need to invest in in the future. Most countries support their own national film production, and many also by inviting foreign producers to the country. I would argue that it would be anti-competitive if Norway did not do the same. Why then support both own production and foreign producers who want to make films here? Well, it'll develop professionalism and competence in our own production. Therefore, we should obtain co-productions. It will also provide local jobs during the recording time. It will even give a chance to our own actors, and it will mean a lot of Norwegian advertising and a lot for our own travel industry, which many people have been involved in. Just look at the advertisement New Zealand has got after the "Lord of the Rings". The scenes from Edoras, the capital of Rohan, are just wonderfully beautiful. Who doesn't want to experience that nature properly? But beautiful nature we also have in Norway. What are the measures that we need to take? We just have to say that using public funds in the creative industry is good investment. The first step has been to set up the Norwegian Film Commission and the idea of regional bets. What else can we imagine? Well, we can imagine direct support, but also reimbursement of a certain percentage when the foreign producer is finished – provided the reimbursement goes to the Norwegian co-producer. There would kind of be two eggs in the same basket, because there's a need for capital in Norwegian movies. Otherwise I challenge several ministers to get together, because here there is a need for a complete thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e565	Norwegian films can refer to higher audiences than for a long time. In 2003, one of the best years was seen with the eyes of Norwegian film history. It shows that we have a high commitment to film, and that we have a growth industry in Norway too. In 2001, the Norwegian people spent more of their dollars on experiences than they spent on food, so we have absolutely a growth potential. I will give tribute to the interpellant, who has focused on the audiovisual industry, a growth industry also for us in Norway. There are exciting thoughts, where we have to look at ourselves and what we can offer of nature and culture, of infrastructure and framework conditions as part of a larger globalised film industry. This way of thinking may not have previously been so prominent or highly prioritised here to land. However, it may be important to assess this as a potential future crop industry. Two things are important. How can we help promote our own Norwegian film industry? How can we help attract foreign film projects to Norway? I think the Minister of Industry put audiovisual industry well into the framework of the means we have available here to the country. As we heard, the Norwegian Tourist Council has sponsored films that they have since used in various events to sell Norwegian nature and culture. The newly created company Innovation Norway allocates 20 million. kr to culture-based business development. Film production will also be included here. There's a lot of exciting and interesting happening. I also noticed that the Minister of Industry briefed on the importance of the cultural and creative industries to the Norwegian economy. At least we in the Culture Committee will follow closely. In terms of instruments to attract foreign film production, I will refer to the project Norwegian Film Commission. I would also like to point out that the majority asked for an addition to the cultural message about film. But I want to warn you, too. There was a rush through. We had a deadline until 1 March, and the Minister of Culture asked at that time in the debate for more time to be able to carry out a comprehensive and much larger review of Norwegian films than was possible in the short term. I wish that the bulk of the population had given a little more time, so that we could have seen this much more comprehensively, and included a good part of these instruments in the assessment. I am afraid that it may be a short time, and that we must continue the job even after this has been submitted. The efforts now being made by the newly created Innovation Norway add up to a new give-up in order to become more innovative. I think we should not just look at the traditional and what we have had, but, as the Minister of Industry said, we must look at new potential growth industries. Here, the film industry will definitely be such an industry of growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e579	There is reason to commend the interpellant for having raised this matter. She gave many good examples in her speech and supported the fact that it should be possible for Norway to play a much more active role in the audiovisual industry than we are doing today. I think the interpellant had an interesting input into how it should be possible for Norway to become more attractive compared to this type of production. I must say, unfortunately, that the Minister of Industry was not particularly offensive in his response to the ideas and thoughts that the interpellant expressed. Now it is said that he became somewhat more visionary when he had done away with the completed script, which essentially contained the review of the department's position with the marketing of Norway as a destination. And it was in any case positive to note that at the end of the summary he made a commitment to taking this matter seriously, also in cooperation with other government councils. I think that's absolutely necessary. I will not conclude here and now that the possibility is great, or conclude with what should and must be done. But with the entrance that the interpellant had, it should be possible to take this topic seriously and look at what opportunities exist. Contributing to building strong environments for film and audiovisual production I think will be a necessity to attract us to foreign environments that will make their productions here. It's not enough to market Norwegian films abroad, we also have to attract foreign environments. This will in turn strengthen the Norwegian film industry and the production of Norwegian films. In conclusion, there is therefore reason to subscribe to the inter-pellant’s call for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Culture to join forces to look at opportunities in this area. I look forward to the matter that the Minister of Industry has announced will be submitted to Stortinget during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e590	Film, video, television and new electronic media are increasingly generating value creation, especially in the United States. In Norway, however, we have not yet seen the very large incomes of this industry. The newly created company Innovation Norway has now allocated 20 million. kr for so-called culture-based industrial development in 2004, in which film production is included. The importance of cultural and creative industries in the Norwegian economy is also examined. However, as the Council of State said, there are no plans to introduce specific support schemes for foreign film production. I think that's right. Where films are made will depend most on the country having something special to offer, whether it is competence, nature or other peculiarity. It is my claim that we in Norway have a distinctive character. I don't think it's going to be a very good movie because as elected representatives, we decide that it's going to be produced. We politicians must lay the framework conditions for all industries, including the audiovisual industry. Nevertheless, I would like to quote Jan P. Syse, who expressed Hierre's primary view in his time as Minister of Industry, as follows: ‘We do not believe that the State knows the future of industry better than industry itself does.’ Many examples show that where there is a good idea and fires, there is also success. Few will claim that we have some special natural assumptions to become a major act on the return of empty bottles. Tomra is an example of an industry that has achieved good and positive results without special subsidies from the state. But they are likely to benefit from the fact that we have access to competent capital in Norway, and that we have had entrepreneurs who have put maximum emphasis on an idea and thus have success. I think we in Norway can also find nines for the audiovisual industry, but the main ingredient to achieve this is competent people with a strong desire to succeed. I came up with a quote: «There is no business like show business». It's got to be, but I still think this industry depends on the fact that there are good general conditions. If we do not have good competitive framework conditions, it may well go «into the sea» for all industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e608	The president was tempted to say, "The show must go on."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e611	I'll start by correcting a misunderstanding. This is the film ‘Beautiful Country’, which is now part of the competition at the Berlin Film Festival. So it's taken up in Vietnam, and it's about a Vietnamese boy, but the film is made by Norwegian and American producers – and for Norwegian and American money. I am very pleased with the debate, and I am very pleased with my colleagues at Stortinget who think this has been a good idea. I hope that this goes from being an idea to becoming a value, at least here on the Stortinget. Norwegian youth, who is growing up today, has a completely different relationship to film and to film production than what I have. I grew up with 8 mm cartoons – Hacke Hackstip and stuff like that – while today youth gets a video camera by hand when they're relatively young, and produces movies by themselves. This means that today we have Norwegian youth, both in the rest of the world and here in Norway, who are educated in the film industry. They should be given a job when they are fully educated, here in Norway, whether they produce only Norwegian films, or they are about co-production Norwegian/foreign films, or they get jobs in foreign companies. The Norwegian Film Commission has built an infrastructure. They market Norway, but incentives are needed for foreign producers to come to Norway. They don't just come by looking at the Norwegian Film Commission's web page. They need more. Movies are high risk, we all know that. We've heard about those who have made fines and buckets of money in one film, and then we've gone right west with the next movie. It's not long since we heard about it on TV. That's why there have to be tools for people to dry bet, and that's what I'm talking about in my interpellation. Reimbursement schemes will not provide large expenditure for the government, because if you succeed, you can repay. I said in my second post that I hope that the Minister of Economic Affairs, the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Finance will find an opportunity to talk together and continue what we have discussed at Stortinget. I hope so. Innovation Norway is excellent, and we support the Minister of Industry in everything he has said about Innovation Norway. But it doesn't hold up in this area. Here you need more, and I hope you can join in and discuss it. Twenty million. kr for culture-based business development will not be many films. There's more to it. So Michael Momyr said that good ideas and firemen probably don't keep up to attract foreign producers – so there's more to it than that. We have the competent people, and we will have them in the future. We're educating many of them, and I'm absolutely sure that with the basis we have, with the crew we already have, there will be a good basis for producing many good Norwegian films, co-productions and other things here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e630	It is rare to hear a debate in Stortinget where you boast so much of each other in the hall. I think I'll join it, and say that there's no reason not to do it. I think, however, that there is a need to take it further, and then we can discuss since how this is to be done. Just let me take a little thing that I think needs to take every time someone from the Workers' Party picks it up, and it's about business neutrality. This time it was the representative Rudihagen who left what the president probably called the show – ‘the show must go on’, I understood. I would like to remind you once again that it is only in one document that it is established that nutrition neutrality should be taken into account, and that is in the SND message promoted by the Workers' Party Government. This government doesn't rely on it. We're going through the project we're presenting on Tuesday, to present some individual projects that we're going to launch. One of those projects, I can inform you, will be what goes on in the service sector in general. There is no doubt that many new jobs will come in industries with marginal attention today. There is currently no correlation between the attention given to the different industries, the value added they contribute, and the number of employees in these industries. There is no doubt that in some new industries, including the cultural area and in the field of film production again, there are already a good number of jobs, but in some of these areas there are opportunities. As I suggested in the actual response to the interpellation, I fully share the view of the interpellant regarding the possible instruments that need to be used. It is a combination of the general and the special thing to do to make a total package that makes Norway interesting, because at the bottom there has to be a competence in this area. There is no doubt that that competence is flourishing in many places. We have Norwegian productions that have been good. This film environment -- as I see it, and as my information indicates -- is an environment that can cope with a lot of what we have internationally. Do we make a total package that makes it interesting also for the foreign film industry to make their recordings in Norway? The Ministry of Innovation and Innovation Norway will be busy putting together a package that makes this interesting, and I can promise the interpellant that I will transmit the debate and all the good wishes for it, and include it in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e646	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e664	It is now about 100 years since the power - producing industrial venture began to exist here in the country. Using foreign capital and bold engineering, the peasant state took the first steps into the industrial world. It was only when we tamed the fossils and used the energy to produce metal, alloys and chemical products that the development towards what Norway we know today was speeding. History of power-processing industry is history of modern Norway. Power plants and industrial buildings sprung up, and there were societies we had never seen here in the country, the industrial cities. Many who did not find employment in primary industries received an alternative to emigration. After the war, when Norway was to be built up again and the country was to be industrialized, this was one of the industries on which it was to bet. When Norway entered the last century, we were one of the poorest and most technologically resilient countries in Europe. When we went out of this hundred years, we were perhaps the richest and one of the most technically advanced. The power-processing industry has a large part of the era for this development. For almost a hundred years, this industry has acquired us new technologies, foreign exchange income, employment and wealth development. Today, when I'm busy with the framework conditions of this industry, it's not for nostalgic reasons, because even now this is one of our most important industries. Power-processing industry knives with the fisheries sector to be the largest industry in this country after the oil industry, measured at export value. When it comes to direct and indirect employment, this is one of our most important industries. This industry is also one of our most important district industries. The power-processing industry is usually corner stone holdings in its local environment. Other local businesses are often built around this industry. In many places, there are very few alternative jobs and little basis for new industries. Most of these industrial sites are also far from other cities and agglomerations. Only rarely do they exist in what may be called the normal shuttle distance. Through the public debate and the media, a few impressions can be that this is an old-fashioned and very impure industry. That is not the case. Although many of the businesses are old, they are also state-of-the-art. Many of the products that are produced are high technology of the highest quality. This industry has undergone a continuous and impressive development over the past decade. The growth of efficiency has been enormous. This industry is currently producing 50 pst. more than he did 20 years ago, but with the same energy use as then. In the same period, the number of additions has decreased, so that the output per. added has gone up dramatically. Many of the Norwegian companies are currently in the world at large when it comes to efficiency. During the same period, billions have also been invested in environmental measures. There is therefore a basis for saying that this is the purest industry in its kind in the world. Today, many of the emissions that used to be a big problem are microscopic. Research and development has developed new technologies that have solved many of the old environmental problems. As I said in the introduction, the development of the power-processing industry in Norway has been an adventure. Unfortunately, this industry is facing huge challenges in this country today. If we don't want to solve these challenges, there's a big danger that we'll have to say in a few years: snap, snap, snip, snip, adventure is out. Over the last few years, Hafslund Metal, Odda Smelteverk and Lilleby Metal have laid down. Magnesium production in Here Island is off-line. Norsk Hydro has agreed that they will not do the necessary modernisation of their works in Årdal and Høyanger, which at worst could lead to the disappearance of 1000 industrial workplaces in these areas. In addition, Hydro has launched a saving campaign that will reduce the number of added to the group further in this country. Electricity is one of the most important inputs for this industry. Today the industry pays on average approx. 11 ear/kWh for the force. It's good in an international context. However, in a few years, very many of the long-term power contracts will expire, and the industry will have to negotiate new ones. Such a market in the Nordic region looks today, one has to assume that the future price will be well over 20 kWh. For some companies, such as the Mo i Rana, this will lead to a three-fold increase in the overnight power prices. When we know what ignition these companies have today, we all see that this will be very demanding. Most of the other businesses before this industry will have a large price jump, and too many people will be asking if there is any possibility of further operations in this country. The risk of de-scaling is very large. While the price of power for this industry in Norway will almost explode, countries such as Canada, Australia and New Zealand offer power at a low fixed price for 20-30 years to come. Norway and Sweden were among the very first countries to liberalise the power sector and set up a free electricity market. Since this market has been operating for well and well ten years, we have to be able to conclude that it has virtually no new power generation at this time. The force balance gets tighter every day that goes. The availability of power and the price of this means that Norway is very little attractive for new investments. At the same time, we see that other countries are actively attracting investment by attracting favourable and stable power contracts. Today, most countries have different prices of power for industrial production and for normal consumption. The long-term power contracts that are about to go out in this country correspond to about 18 TWh. Although Norwegian policies in this area are regulated by the EEA Agreement, in my view, we should aim to ensure that this amount of energy will also go to industrial production in the future and not to normal consumption. I also believe it is possible to create an industrial power market within international agreements. At least we should have done this properly. Moreover, we politicians must be responsible for the energy balance and for the price of energy. If it is political will, it is possible to achieve greater energy production in Norway. A more active follow-up to what the Stortinge decided in the spring of 2000, would have given us a better energy balance today, and with the lower prices. Another area where the Norwegian power-processing industry appears to be in a special position is in relation to future environmental requirements. Even if the Norwegian industry today is in the world market when it is involved in emissions, the majority here in the house would like strange environmental requirements. When Stortinget dealt with the climate communication, the majority adopted an own Norwegian climate regime. Even if I am dependent on strict environmental requirements, these requirements must be realistic and somewhat in line with what our competitors have. The alternative is the closure and relocation of production. The fact that the follow-up to the Kyoto agreement and what it will lead to is not clarified is a further deterioration in this industry's framework conditions in Norway. Paradoxically, strict Norwegian environmental requirements can lead to increased emissions in the world because production will be moved to countries with completely different environmental standards than we have. There's a hurry to give this industry a positive signal. In 2003, almost 20 000 industrial jobs disappeared in this country. Norway is now one of the least industrialised countries in Europe. We therefore need to pursue an active policy to keep the people we have left. I am therefore very pleased that the Government has chosen to follow up LO's proposal on an industrial policy selection. Many of the workplaces that disappeared last year probably did so as a result of high interest rates and strong dollars. Fortunately, the state of health in the Norwegian economy is now somewhat better. An economic policy for stable interest rates and exchange rates is decisive for our business to work, but for the industry that I have drawn up in this interview, that's not enough. If we don't reverse the development of this industry, it will be greatly reduced. Many businesses will be shut down. The technological environment will be lost. The number of industrial workers will go down further. Many communities will lose their cornerstones. Centralization will be enhanced. Norway will lose foreign exchange income. Environmental problems will increase. Global emissions will increase. That is why I am asking what the Minister of Industry will do to avoid the reduction of the power-generating industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e717	I think the interpellant has some defensive starting point. The challenges are not just to avoid degradation. As I see it, it is also a challenge to facilitate growth in the power-generating industry in Norway in the years to come. The Government is concerned that the industry must have competitive framework conditions. The power-processing industry contributes greatly to the creation of value added and employment, in particular in District Norway. Industry is at the forefront of developing and implementing modern technologies. Power-intensive industries compete in international markets with strong competition. It is adaptable and has absolutely demonstrated its ability and willingness to be innovative. This is one of our leading competences. Norwegian environments are well advanced internationally, including: in material technology. Much advanced research and development takes place in Norwegian powerful industries. At the same time, the powerful industry in Norway has a significant volume and accounts for about 11 pst. of the total Norwegian export value. The jobs, as we have heard, are approx. 22,000 people. It is approximately 7,5 pst. of total employment in industry and mining. Many of the enterprises are also corner stone enterprises in their communities in the district of Norway. Global competition, technological development and international environmental agreements have led to conversion in the power-generating industry. In some cases, this has resulted in closure and conversion to other activities. Of course, in places with a one-sided nutritional basis, it has created special challenges. Investment in new equipment combined with a reduction in the number of employees can be a challenge, even if the activity is not shut down. However, there is reason to stress the significant initial investment in power-generating enterprises that has taken place in recent years. A huge investment has been made in the aluminium industry on Sunndalsøra and in the sea and in zinc production in Odda. There are also several interesting examples of new exposures from foreign groups in the Norwegian power-intensive industry. A good example of this is the French Age, which, on 12 December last year, announced that they were continuing in Norway, in Sauda and Porsgrund. At the same time as the company shuts down manganese production in Boulogne, France, it is thus continuing here in Norway. The government attaches great importance to contributing to framework conditions that promote value creation and growth in competitive business. We have implemented more than 19 billion kroner in tax relief. Most of this has gone to industry. The ESA has ordered Norway to apply a similar electricity charge to all businesses. As of the end of the year, therefore, the electricity charge has been temporarily removed for all business. Work is being done on the design of a new charging system, based on light and heat consumption, which continues to provide an exemption for industry. Competition-affected businesses have faced significant challenges in recent years. Expensive wage settlements since 1996 and strong growth in the public sector have contributed to high interest rates and high interest rates, as the interpellant had in mind. It has increased costs and weakened the competitiveness of industry. Through a targeted and tight economic policy, the Government has helped to reverse this situation. Since the 2003 government budget was presented, the governance rate in Norway’s Bank has fallen by a total of 5 percentage points. At the same time, the krone price has been significantly reduced and the competitiveness of industry has improved significantly. The foundation has been built through a targeted and tight economic policy. Wage developments are now more in line with our main competitors. A moderate settlement for spring will be essential for this positive development to continue. I feel that the parties are busy. Good access to reasonable electricity has been a prerequisite for the establishment and emergence of power-generating enterprises in Norway. The industrialisation of Norway has been linked to the hydropower, as underlined by the interpellant. Industry and power plants were developed in many places in the country in parallel. As a result of the fall-back legislation, many of the power plants have fallen back to the state. In order to compensate for the loss of its own power generation, power-generating industries have gained a significant part of their power through long-term agreements under politically defined conditions. However, the EEA obligations have led to the cessation of these agreements. The continuation of industrial power contracts contrary to the EEA obligations would impose on the industry an unsustainable repayment requirement and an uncertainty that they cannot live with. It was therefore a total increase which in 1999 agreed that the old policy-defined power contracts would be phased out towards 2011. At the same time, for the last time, the industry was offered contracts on government terms. By the Energy Act, Norway was at an early stage in liberalising its power trading. Today, there are changes in this area across Europe. Liberalisation has provided the basis for more efficient use of power resources in and between countries. It has also provided the basis for increased value creation in the power industry, which is also a major and important part of Norwegian business. The conversion of the industrial power regime has created a challenge for the power-intensive enterprises. This is a challenge many businesses have already tackled by actively exploiting the opportunities offered by a well-functioning power market. Power-intensive industry has a long service life, a large volume of power and exerts power at a high voltage level. This results in lower electricity prices for these enterprises than for other consumers. Many have subsequently concluded long-term supply contracts under commercial terms. This provides a basis for continued power-based industrial activity. The overall situation of electricity supply is important for the power-intensive industry in Norway, as the interpellant stressed. The power market in Norway and the Nordic countries has become tighter. It is a goal of the Government to ensure that there is a market supply of electricity at acceptable prices. At the same time, there is a need to reduce dependence and vulnerability to fluctuations in the supply of hydropower. The government has presented a strategy for a more robust energy supply, which includes measures for increased power availability. These include: granted concessions for approximately 1,2 TWh new hydropower. As the interpellant said, since liberalisation it has been relatively small. In fact, permits granted in the last two years are more than the sum of the eight previous ones. This year we have also made tax changes that make investing in hydropower more attractive. Measures to stimulate the increased deployment of small power plants have also been implemented. Three concessions have been granted to gas power plants and a policy for the realisation of gas power plants with CO2 management has been drawn up. At the same time, we have strengthened efforts for environmentally friendly conversion of energy use, and production has been strengthened. Of course, with a common Nordic power market, what is happening in our neighbouring countries in terms of power generation and transmission capacity is also important. The environment framework conditions are important for power-generating enterprises and the rest of the process industry, a point of view I share with the interpellant. My impression is that industry is taking the environmental challenges seriously. In the design of climate policy, the Government has a good dialogue with the industry on individual elements of the quota system to be set up. It is a clear objective to design the system in such a way that industry enterprises that are profitable, with an international allowance price under the Kyoto Protocol, do not shift out or fall down as a result of climate change costs. The follow-up to the Gothenburg Protocol to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide and oxides of nitrogen also takes place through cooperation with the process industry. I would also like to point out that the Minister for the Environment recently gave the steel industry in Mo the postponement of the deadline for mercury tanning to similar requirements to competing companies in the EU. The suspension has been granted in order to ensure the same conditions for the Mo industry as competitors in other countries and to ensure continued activity in Norway. Changes in the market, knowledge and technology require constant transitions in Norwegian business and, through a comprehensive innovation policy, the Government will facilitate increased innovation and growth. It is absolutely necessary to meet tomorrow's welfare challenges. We will contribute to more coordinated and targeted efforts across different policy and management areas. The innovation challenge concerns all parts of Norwegian business. The introduction of new production processes, research and development, to new and more advanced products, and the introduction of new forms of organisation are some examples of this innovation. In the power-processing industry and the other process industries, there are many good examples of such new work. The government is pursuing a targeted policy to ensure a good framework for competitive business. The policy is now producing results. The industry, including the process industry, and the powerful industry are now signaling an absolute increase in optimism. By facilitating increased innovation and growth, we address long-term value creation challenges. This provides good growth opportunities for an innovative, power-generating industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e751	It's strange, almost pathetic, to listen to the different state councils when they're talking about power balance, industry and prospects. So today we have an energy minister who encourages – as late as last winter – the industry to shut down production, because he would sell the power on the free market at a much higher price than the industry would give. We have been informed that it is expected that the industry in Norway will reduce its activity due to a lack of power in the future. We have an environmental protection minister who, through SV, has adopted a climate policy that will frustrate the Norwegian power-generating industry, and so we have a Minister of Industry who today says he wants to grow in power-generating industries in the future. It is not easy to grasp what is the real policy, but then one really has to focus on what has happened. Interpellation today is very important for future industrial development in Norway. It is important to focus on it, and the Minister of Industry has previously been concerned about the very issue that is being debated today. As late as February 27, 1997, the Minister of Industry, when the representative of the big business, Ansgar Gabrielsen, here in Stortinget, said: ‘Industry itself has repeatedly pointed to the need to provide more power and, in my view, it will be essential to do so.’ And he went on to say, ‘A prerequisite for our industry’s future ability to generate electricity at competitive prices is the availability of electricity.’ Yes, we in the Workers' Party had hoped that the Government, and at least the Minister of Industry, had followed up the concrete words and made sure that we got more power available in Norway. We believe that this is a prerequisite for us to have the power-processing industry in the future, with the great value creation and the important regional impact it will have in the future. In the Minister of Industry's constituency, both Lista Aluminiumsverk and Øye Melting Works now say that they are ready to expand their production provided that there is power in the Norwegian market. And the question to the Minister of Energy might be, Will he follow the words of 1997?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e774	Of course, we need to face up to the challenge when discussing the powerful industry, which we have when discussing all the other industries in Norway in the future. But then to the degrees to meet the future on behalf of the Norwegian power-intensive industry with bent head as the Workers' Party does – I refer in particular to the last article here – does not serve either the powerful industry, Norwegian industry and industrial policy in general or the companies that now report record results every day, production record in Mo in Rana in 2003, etc. etc. We have heavy investment going on in this industry that will be of great pleasure to the societies it is established in. This, of course, does not mean that we should not take seriously the many challenges ahead, such as balance of power, price policy, etc. But it can hardly be unknown, at least not for the powerful industry, that we have to go back 15 years to get what happened within the power regime of the process industry, what goes on with the old fixed-price agreements between companies and the state. During shifting labor party governments, there has been unanimity, and there has been a vote in favour of this price regime and the phase-out of the power agreements that existed. The outsider may, I say, risk being left behind with the impression that the Workers' Party has had a set of menus to present to powerful industries that are diametrically different from what the sitting government has to present. That's not the picture. It's not like that. Those who are uninvited must have the impression that they have heard the Akselsen and Klungland. Both say that something has to be done, but in the debate the government has not received a single instruction, either in advance of today's debate or in today's debate, on what to do differently. And I think that the Akselsen & Co. Now you have to be clear and precise. If not, this debate will be suspended. It is possible that it is a wish – to have a safe stand in the loose air also in this business debate. Is it not true that the Workers' Party was against the introduction of the Energy Act? It's not that the Workers' Party is at government energy prices, is it? And that's not how Akselsen thinks it's possible today to get his own price regime and power regime for the process industry alone? Finally, I don't think it serves the industry that we describe it as completely in stable side rental, because it's far from the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e790	The issue that the interpellant travels is not of a new date. The development of the powerful industry, as in large parts of industry else, has been worrying for a long time, even though we see some flashes of light. The government's misguided business-neutral policy and significant tax burden, as we see it, and therefore low access to capital to business as a result, make life difficult for a large number of businesses. The tight situation in the power market does not make everyday life easier. In this situation, I would like to remind you of the proposals made by the Progress Party to pursue an economic offer side policy, which involves significant tax relief, in line with the wishes of the process industry. The Labour Party and the Government Parties have voted against. I would like to remind you that the Minister of Finance recently stressed that he is in favour of tax relief that can contribute to economic growth. Unfortunately, the absence of tax relief in the current year’s government budget testifies to the fact that the Minister of Finance accepts a lower rate of growth than is strictly necessary. The Labour Party has addressed the challenges of energy policy, such as tight power markets and uncertain environmental requirements. The representative, Akselsen, said, inter alia: to the Financial Paper on 2 July last year that he should ensure the construction of gas power plants and eliminate specular environmental requirements, despite the fact that the Workers' Party had only a few months earlier voted against the corresponding proposals of the Progress Party. It is difficult to see the connection between the rhetoric of the Workers' Party and what is actually the party's policy. In the Financial Newspaper, the representative said that Aksensen stated that the climate quota system would lead to significant cost disadvantages compared to competitors. On the other hand, the Norwegian climate policy setting reads that the Workers' Party wants: «Norway implements measures that deliver significant emission reductions before the entry into force of the international allowance system from 2008». In practice, therefore, gas power plants are required to be subject to expensive CO2 management, at least to believe what the Workers' Party writes in the Norwegian climate policy setting. This was later confirmed by Jens Stoltenberg, who said that gas power plants would not increase CO2 emissions. We cannot see that the Labour Party's energy policy, as formulated in staging positions, will provide a better framework for the powerful industry. The Progress Party has promoted more than 30 proposals in the field of energy in the last year, and our many attempts to reverse the negative developments in the force balance have not won the hearing in the Workers' Party. Nor have they promoted or presented alternative proposals that could provide opportunities for development, which means something to that industry. That is why we believe that the Labour Party does not have credibility in this area, nor have solutions been presented to improve the conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e806	It is good that the representative Aksensen is concerned about history, but here there were a few missing elements. I'll allow myself to supplement it a little bit. The Norwegian aluminium industry and other energy-intensive industries were built up with access to cheap, subsidised power, and State Power was the main instrument of government. Then we got the new Energy Act at the beginning of the 1990s, with the conversion to a market-based power system. Both Statkraft and the role of other power producers were changed – now it was to make the most of money. Then we got the EEA Agreement. I would like to remind you of the assurances given by the majority of the Stortinget at the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement on the continued possibility of ensuring that important industrial workplaces can be maintained through schemes that ensure strong industrial prices for businesses can live with. However, the electricity charge is now fully revalued, according to the ESA's order, and the time is out of policy-defined power contracts. SV opposed both the Energy Act and the EEA Agreement, inter alia: because we did not want to lose the instruments we had for the development and conservation of Norwegian industrial workplaces. What is happening now is a phase out of the long-term power contracts, while there is uncertainty about the further role of Statkraft. It is no longer possible to subsidise electricity to industry. If the Axis believes that it can be done with the current EEA Agreement, it is very interesting in that case. Calling for gas power becomes a symbolic policy. Firstly, gas power requires a current price of less than 30 øre per. kWh in order to be profitable, in addition, surplus power will be exported out of the country. And gas power will be subject to quota obligations in the climate quota system, just like in the EU. The governance that we are left with today is through ownership, among other things. by Statkraft. There are two ways to reduce the cost of energy to industry: either through a reduction in the cost of power – an opportunity that the parties to which Akssen and Gabrielsen belong have contributed to the removal – or through a reduction in energy consumption. The potential for growth in Norway is estimated at 20 TWh. The back of the cheap power medal was that the companies did not invest enough to save energy. PIL and Enova have mapped the energy efficiency potential for the powerful industry to be 5.3 TWh, plus 1 TWh waste heat that can be recovered – a lot to pick up, that is. The obvious solution is to ensure that Statkraft has the necessary levers and demands to work with energy efficiency improvement towards the Norwegian industry. Will the Minister actively use Statkraft as an instrument to trigger this savings potential? It is, in my view, an essential question and a recipe for a solution that has been called for several times from this pulpit. In that case, it assumes that we keep 100 pst. State ownership of Statkraft. There are still rumors that the Government wants to privatize Statkraft. Then is my question to the Council of State: Can he tell us whether he thinks privatisation of Statkraft is a sensible strategy in view of the future of the Norwegian power-intensive industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e821	With its significant size, power-intensive industry plays an important role as an engine in Norwegian business. This is due both to the fact that the industry accounts for approx. 7.5 pst. of the total number of jobs in industry and mining, and that some of these enterprises are cornerstones of many communities and regions. In this way, the overall economic impact is much greater than the one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-to-one-to-one of the statistics of power-demand industry. For this reason, we are concerned that the industry will not only survive but also have opportunities for growth and development. This is expressed in many areas and through a number of measures. I want to draw out three of these areas. First of all, there's a close link between price and access to power. Therefore, Bondevik II has done a lot to increase access to force, and the Government will do more. Under our government there are given water power concessions for a total amount of energy that far exceeds what was given in the 1990s, and significantly more than what was given under the government of Stoltenberg. As we know, the interpellant was the Minister of Energy in the latter government. There is therefore no basis for the interpellant’s relatively strong criticism of the lack of action to improve the balance of forces, unless this has been considered self-criticism. In addition, our government has made it easier to build out mini and small power plants, and it has made a record investment in wind power. Although it is not realistic, I will nevertheless mention as an example that if all the windmills requested are developed, it will correspond to approx. 10 TWh pure energy. The second measure I would like to mention is the work on a new electricity tax model for industry to adapt to ESA's requirements. Two different models have been out on the ears, and the aim is to find a system that does not impose additional taxes on the power-generating industry and hence cost increases. Here I have to admit that I am somewhat surprised that the interpellant's party, the Workers' Party, in its alternative budget for 2004, would continue the old electricity tax regime until 1 July of this year. Such a solution would result in a significant risk that the downstream power-intensive industry would be subject to high exceptional costs in the form of penalty charges from ESA. The last point I get time to include is the fact that by pursuing a defensive and tight fiscal policy, our government has helped to ensure that Norwegian interest rates are now in line with what we find in the EU, and the krone price has come down to a competitive level. This was a clear and unambiguous demand from the competitive export industry in the autumn of 2002, and also here our government has fully delivered in relation to the order.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e834	It is, to the most extent, a necessary debate we have today, because it is not long until the contracts on which the industry is sitting today go out, and it is time to act. However, the background description given in relation to the causes of the problems facing the industry today is extremely poor. It's actually not that it's primarily the Energy Act that's why we're in the situation we're in today. It is not all parts of the Energy Act that I am equally pleased with, and it is absolutely necessary to look at elements of the Energy Act. It did not come for e-works to make as much money as possible, but to avoid unnecessary expansion. I would like to remind you that for the last 10 to 15 years, we have almost had no expansion of new capacity, despite a strong increase in consumption. This suggests that at the end of the 1980s we had a large overcapacity in the production of electricity. We sold that overproduction out of the country with great losses, simply because we didn't need it ourselves. It's a situation that the Energy Act made sure we didn't. But then the Energy Act is not good enough in a situation of undercoverage on force. It is also worth remembering that it is actually the EEA Agreement that is the reason why we cannot currently award power contracts. It is neither the Energy Act nor the lack of power that is the cause of it. The Workers' Party has been a driver of a free Nordic market, a free Nordic market, which has become more or less a free European market today. The Workers' Party has also been a driver for maximising the transfer capacity to the countries around us, which means that it is those who pay the best, who get the power, and not necessarily the industry, with the regime we have. It is therefore necessary to look at a set of instruments, not just electricity supply, which is, of course, also important in a deficit situation. It is also necessary to look at, for example: how to challenge the EEA Agreement with regard to the conclusion of agreements or to exploit the opportunities that lie there to ensure that this industry is sufficiently powerful. It must not be a goal for us to get praise when we travel to Brussels, or elsewhere in EU countries, to be the country that is most attractive to adapt to the EU. On the other hand, it must be an objective to exploit the possibilities of building up Norwegian industry and business. We also have to look at the tariff systems we have, so that it is profitable to take out power as close as possible where production is going on, and that is essentially where the industry is established. But it's clear that when it's just as reasonable to take power out of it after transferring it over the mains many thousand kilometers, as it is to take it out into the wall at the power station, the industry won't have the advantage that such a differentiation could mean. It is also necessary to increase the availability of energy through an investment, through the modernisation of the existing power plants that we have, and through the development of small-scale power plants. But it's an illusion to think that a large-scale expansion of gas power, where the price will be well over 20 cents per cent. kWh, maybe up to 30 cents, will be what's upsetting the industry, when we know that today this industry is paying an average of 11 cents per. kWh. Then there are some other challenges that also have to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e847	After the Workers' Party's opinion, this is a very important industry. She's important for the districts, 22,000 people are employed there, it's a high-tech industry, and they've done a lot on the environmental side, with emission requirements, but we can't have it that there are stricter demands in Norway than in the other countries that one competes with. If a move of the workspaces is out, these items will be produced using a much worse environmental technology. That is the reality. I must say that I am very surprised at this debate here today, for everyone is talking about their horses, whether it is now the EEA Agreement or it is energy law. If we think that we have a common challenge to value these industrial workplaces, which we think are so important, then I think we should all use a different tone, because this is greedyly important. Ivar Kristiansen will have a view from the hall here of what the Government will do. I thought that when one in an interpellation pointed to the big challenge that this industry has, and to how important it is, it's the Council of State's job to sit down, together with the industry, to find out what one can do to solve the problems together. Ivar Kristiansen says that one has basically no problems in this industry. But the council said he wanted growth. And then I ask, how are we going to do that? I think we're struggling enough to hold the jobs we have today. Then it has been a rhetoric that has gone on who has given the most concession to build up – what government in the 1990s has done it. It's too low power, and it's out of power in the last ten years. So the labor party government granted a concession to build gas power plants that would have separated more TWh than the Ingredient Sørfonn, for example. says this government has now received. But the point is not what one has given the concession to – there is no gas power plant built. We all have to do something together to get something more. I think that this interpellation debate is very important, but then we have to put something rhetoric aside and ask the Council of State to do something about this industry, that we do not have strange environmental requirements, but that he can compete in the same way with others when it concerns the environment. And then you have to have access to more power -- that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e861	I can't promise you that all rhetoric will be ignored. In my opinion, it is easy to agree with the Council of State that the interpellation has a defensive approach to power-intensive industries. The process industry is one of the most important industries in the country. In 2002, the process industry accounted for about 13 pst. by the country’s export value and was the main export industry by the oil and gas industry – both the engineering industry and the fishing industry. This is an industry that has also invested heavily in the last few years, as the Council of State was involved in its intervention. The process industry – as we have heard – employs around 22,000 people. The number of jobs has been steadily falling since 1980, but this must be seen in connection with the fact that productivity growth in the power-generating industries in the last decade has been significantly higher than the average for industry. One should also be aware that in recent years the process industry has largely separated many service functions. A company that this representative knows well, Norzink, separated over a hundred years from other companies at the end of the 1990s. However, these are not jobs that have disappeared from the Odda community. Conversions within the process industry are therefore nothing new. The power situation is, of course, a challenge for the power-intensive industry. However, it is not new to the industry that the politically governed power contracts are being phased out. Already in 1994, when this representative worked with Norzink in Odda, this was a question that was high on the agenda. Norsk Hydro, Elektem, Norske Skog, A/S Saudefallen, A/S Tyssefallen on behalf of Norzink and Tinfos have all found long-term solutions to their powertrain, under this long-term lease agreement. Of course, the fact that some actors have been waiting to enter into contracts for a period of rising market prices in force is unfortunate for those in debt. However, there is a question of whether the answer to this is political intervention. One shall also be careful to call for policy action after the exceptional situation on the power market in 2003. The high price of power in 2003 was a result of the highest rainfall in fifty years, and the situation is now in the process of normalising. However, it has been clear to most people to have a functioning power market, and the supply side must also work. The Co-operation Board has implemented a number of measures to strengthen the power supply, contrary to what happened when the representative Akssen himself put into government. While the late Prime Minister Stoltenberg announced that the time for major hydropower expansions was over, this government has given concessions for the development of 1.4 TWh new hydropower. Tax changes and simplifications have also been implemented in the management of small hydroelectric power supplies, in order to provide incentives for new investments in hydroelectric power. When it is shown that the worker partisan government granted concession for the construction of gas power plants, it does not help in the current situation, as gas power plants are not built because of the lack of economy in these investments. In addition, there is a need to increase the level of improvements that have been made to the overall business environment in the last year, for example. the fall in interest rates and the normalisation of the exchange rate — and also a sharp reduction in taxes and taxes. Then one can conclude that the impression of a government that does nothing for the power-intensive industry, which is being tried – and which was made by the post of the representative Klungland – is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e878	The interpellant addresses a topic that is close to my heart, and I am pleased that such a debate gives us the opportunity to have political attention to the powerful industry. I think the industry needs that. We have some one-sided, small industrial communities in this country that are totally dependent on industrial construction for their survival as viable communities. These industrial sites are not in any way a subsidy loop, but, on the contrary, have provided billions of dollars to build well-being in the country. This obliges us to stand up for these societies when businesses don't take their social responsibility seriously. In particular, the aluminium work in Sogn is delayed, because Hydro will not modernise the work. I'm going to say that Hydro has a special obligation when it comes to these societies, especially given that for many years, Hydro has been given very favourable framework conditions by the state to precisely develop its businesses. We want these industrial sites to continue producing and creating the community – because they are good at it, and because the modernisation and further development of these works will be very profitable. Both Sunndalsøra, Årdal and Høyanger show that even with a higher power price – the Høyanger modernisation will lead to a power price of 20 ø/kWh – investing in new technology is profitable. Hydros no has its root in strategic assessments, not in business economics. The modernisation in Høyanger will have an internal interest rate of 22 p.m. and, depending on the price of aluminium and the dollar, the surplus will be between 200 and 400 million annually. kr. This says no to Hydro, something that I don't understand. I'm not saying that power prices and power availability are not important framework conditions for this industry, but Hydro has declined to better framework conditions related to this special decision that applies to Sogn. We in SV will still work on framework conditions in all cases where we can put it in. For example, in the budget proposal before Christmas, we are increasing. the depreciation rates for machinery and equipment with 5 pst., which will make modernisation and investment even more profitable for enterprises. We believe that the investment in the further processing of aluminium in Norway can be one tool to keep up the employment. We already have a forward-looking processing industry, which largely delivers to the car industry. Fundamus in Høyanger e.g. now expands production by 30 pst. and go with fine remains – with, amusingly enough, municipal ownership. Through targeted efforts to develop skills in new markets, we ensure that aluminium continues to be a material that contributes to growth and employment. But then we have to invest even more in research and development. Production of primary aluminium and further processing of aluminium are research and competence intensive! We just have that premonition. It's in Årdal that Hydro has developed the prebake technology. The melting plant in Høyanger was in line with the world’s most secure aluminiumworks – got the 2003 ‘Raising to the Challenge Award’ – and thus has the lowest fluoroemission in the world, so we can do all of this. It's just about getting on with the bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e891	For me, who comes from the industrial district of Nordland, today's interpellation is interesting. Soon Nordland is no longer an industrial group, even though the representative Kristiansen boasts very much of the results. As of 2005, the industry in Rana will mark the large increases and, in particular, the fluctuations in the power market in Norway. Then the power contracts cancel out. The foundation of the Rana industry is anchored in the power resources following the closure of the Ironworks at the end of the 1980s. The price of these power resources was favourable to industry. During the conversion of the Rana industry, it was a prerequisite for the success of the industry in maintaining the power contracts. And not enough with that. It was also promised that they would be extended well before the end of 2005 to ensure further positive development of the Rana community. In retrospect, we know what happened in that case. The question of whether Norway is and has been the nicest country in the EEA may be asked. It is a cross-thinking that Norwegian government-determined industrial power conditions have been open and publicly available, while in the EU they are exempt from public disclosure, even in the Price Transparency Directive. It is important to note that all 98 companies in Mo Industripark depend on each other, and that everyone depends in a way on the existence of the large companies – such as Fundia, Fesil Rana Metal and old Elektem Rana. After 2005, at scheduled power prices, the industrial park will have an additional cost of around 240 million. kr. The paradox is that Rana is in a surplus area in terms of force. And if the industry finally has to shut down, this will be power that no one can use, as the transmission system has too little capacity. If this surplus power went back to the companies, power could continue to be a competitive advantage for Norwegian power-intensive businesses in the future. We are also familiar with the problems surrounding the employer’s fee last autumn. This greatly affects the companies in Mo Industripark, also for the service companies. So we're, as the interpellant says, in a demanding time. Most district policy instruments are on their way out. One might wonder whether it is a misguided policy on the part of the Government, or whether the Government will go ahead to take action. A positive environmental account is not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e906	I want to thank you for the commitment that many have shown today, but I still have to say that I am somewhat surprised at the tone that people have chosen to put on. In my interpellation I have not attacked anyone, but tried to describe some problems that I perceive are there, and that we jointly have a responsibility to solve. So I'm a little surprised that I'm being attacked the way I've been. I hope, of course, that there is a basis for saying that I am optimistic. I was in the square in Årdal with 2,500 millers who were concerned about the future. I also hope that there was no basis for the pessimism that many felt there. I am pleased that both the Minister of Industry and the representative of Kristiansen look forward to the future. It is true that there have been major investments in this sector in the last few years. But today there are almost no investment plans. On the other hand, there are a lot of rationalization and shutdown plans. And most companies operating in this market say Norway is not the place they will be in the future. The fact that I have done this interpellation doesn't necessarily mean that I or the Labour Party have all the answers. But I still feel that the situation is so serious that someone has to start this debate. Most people who have shared in the debate today have shots at the Labour Party and at me. We probably have our share of responsibility, but unfortunately I don't think it helps all those who are concerned about losing their jobs today. What I wanted with the interpellation was to give the Minister of Industry a chance to describe the policy he and the Government have in this area. I have to say that the Government has no special policy in this area. I agree that we need to have the general framework conditions in place, but for this industry it is not enough. We must have access to power! There is now a lot of power available because long-term contracts expire. That is why I think we should take advantage of the possibilities we have to investigate whether, within the EEA rules, it is possible to create a separate market for power for industry. Every other country has it. I have to say, I don't take very seriously those who don't have the economy in order, those who want to lead a policy that makes interest become sky high. I also have to say that when people from a party who have done everything they can to prevent us from having access to power in Norway are concerned about the power-consuming industry, I am not taking it very seriously either. One might owe me too much, but to blame me for working on building gas power in Norway is totally unimaginable. At the time I was an energy minister, we gave permission to build out 12 TWh. Many have said that it does not help today. It has never been such that the last expansion has been profitable. But if these gas plants were developed, we would of course have had a lower general price in the power market. The conclusion of this debate is that the Government will not do anything special. Worrying's a little bit. I hope people in Mo in Rana, who in 14 months get triple power prices in their businesses, notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e927	I can agree with the representative Akssen that there has been a lot of rhetoric in the debate. I might take that more as a sign that the good ideas and suggestions for concrete actions and actions to counteract the phasing out of government-determined power contracts, which are a problem for some of the companies, are not so easy to find. But I can't help but comment on a couple-three of the points that have been up. It is clear that I share the Akselsen's assessments when one hears SV representatives talking with concern about this industry. At least it looks like something hollow. Pointing to Hydro as the problem itself becomes rather strange – a company that has invested SEK 1.5 billion per year in the last ten years. years. In terms of what we've done, and what we haven't done in the last ten years in terms of power balance and power expansion, the Storting knows better than anyone else that there's been relatively little power expansion. The representative of Klungland referred to an opinion from me on 27 February 1997 on the need to obtain more force. Like the representative Akselsen, I can hardly be accused of being the largest environmental activist in this room, whether it's hydropower or other conditions. And it wasn't signed that held the New Year's speech and suggested that the power build was over. It was completely different. I think the debate is actually also an expression of a fact that we have to base, and as the representative Akselsen said, Norway is not the place where it will be invested. We can extend it to say that it has the premise that Europe will not be the place where large investments will be made in new generation capacity. It simply has to do with the fact that there are two or three other big countries in the world – where you have locked-in power resources, where you don't have transmission capacity – that appear to be more attractive, because there you can get the power cheaper, not because it's subsidised, but because the capacity is so large and the ability to sell it is less than here. However, I believe that in this sector further development will continue, with – I was saying – innovation processes that make us with the same amount of energy, but with far fewer employees, have increased capacity by 50 pst. in the last 20 years. It's a fact, and it'll probably go on as well. It's probably part of the problem picture, too, when you're going to be completely honest. Because it's clear that there's a lot of thousands of people working in this industry, which is producing 50 pst. more. I feel that in the industry there is, after all, a significant degree of optimism. And it's going pretty well for the time being, precisely because you've got the most basic things sorted out. There is no doubt that in this industry one would wish that one could have gained power at a completely different price. I think it's going to be difficult to adopt policy-determined prices, but what we experienced last winter, I think we're going to be saved – hopefully for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e942	With these words, the debate is on case No. Three over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e948	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e966	To Case No 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-06.ana.ud2404e977	There is no record.
