ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e45	The representative of Ågot Valle, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e54	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e59	I suggest Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e64	Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker are unanimously elected as presidents of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e82	The interpellation of quarantine and clear driving rules when transitioning from the position in the Defence to the defence providers is not a new date. In order to draw up clear boundaries in the relationship between the civil service and private social interests, the Stoltenberg government presented St.meld. No 11 for 2000–2001, which was dealt with in the United Kingdom on 5 April 2001. Unfortunately, this has not been followed up by the current government. In a living democracy, institutions and bureaucracy are the main tools for policy-making. The institutional guidelines in the relationship between politicians and bureaucrats are therefore also important. Since the introduction of parliamentaryism 120 years ago, the senior management of the office has taken its legitimacy from the Stortinget. A State Council of State must be able to rely on the knowledge and expertise given to the political leadership of the department to be based on objectivity, stability and integrity. Because the Norwegian administration has only a small element of political staff, this becomes very important. It becomes important because bureaucracy does not leave the ministry with political leadership, as it does in some other countries. Now Norway has generally seen a loyal and capable office, which is also one of the most important pillars of the legal state. The measures in the St.meld setting. No 11, was meant to prevent an unfortunate development, which could be understood by the contours. It was therefore gratifying to record at the time that Storting’s treatment showed broad political agreement on these issues. It is not the case that exchanges of personnel between the public and private sectors have only negative aspects. A transition between the public and private sectors may be problematic. Such transfers of personnel may, in turn, weaken the confidence of the public and must have, to the public authorities managing the interests of the State on behalf of the people. One such problem area is the availability of sensitive information. Knowledge acquired by a public official in his or her work situation may, for example: distort the level of information between potential suppliers. The Committee dealing with the case in 2001 considered quarantine as an appropriate instrument and therefore asked the Ministry of Labour and Administration to put in place a three- to six-month standstill system. The current State Council, Jørgen Kosmo, also stressed the broad support for the principles set out in the decision. He also stressed that if we were to maintain trust in the Norwegian government, it was important to remove what could be of uncertainty. Traditionally, Norway has had few problems with transitions from employment in the state agency to private business. The problem arises if a person who changes jobs has access to information that damages central government or that contributes to the influence of major purchases or choice of product. When Stortinget debated St.meld on 5 April 2001. No 11, it was underlined that so far there has been little labour penetration in the civil service. But this trend was thought to be turning around, and it was pointed out that it is correct and important to get a clear borderup. A relationship between public bureaucracy and commercial interests may lead to a wrong place. Defence and the Ministry of Defence are particularly vulnerable if private interests are given access to sensitive or strategically important information. For example, a development process for a product that the Defence needs, or a planning phase for strategic choice of defence investment, will need to be graduated or excluded from the public. If a person engaged in such a project ends and is headhunted into one of the groups that have financial interests in obtaining production or delivery, that enterprise would have shot the golden bird in relation to its competitors – simply by sitting on strategic information and knowing what buttons to press. When the defence committee last year dealt with organisational changes in the FLO's logistical organization, I was called up by a person who presented himself with a military degree, who said that he had recently worked in the FLO's data section and had useful information and good arguments for a different ICT structure than the Government had provided. He then came to visit – my party was as far as I know, not the only thing that was visited – and during the meeting I understood that he was actually representing a larger business in the defence industry. It was hard to get it out of him, but it turned out eventually. The management of this enterprise feared that the reorganisation of the ICT department could have negative consequences for them as providers of data equipment to the FLO. From the press, we're familiar with the story of an officer who went practically directly from project work with the Defense Helicopters to one of the multinational groups competing for future rescue helicopters. There are many applications from professional lobbyists who want to market specific pre-war supplies or special products and product ideas to members of the Committee, and of course that should be the case. But a strikingly large proportion of these are officers or former employees of the Ministry of Defence, Defence or the FLO. The defense now has two major investment projects under construction for the Maritime Defense: frigates and missile torpedo boats in the Skjold class. Large Norwegian and foreign yards and industrial establishments are involved. These shall also be equipped with sea missiles and other equipment. It again involves a number of subcontracting companies. Let me underline as much as I can, that an active and up-to-date defence industry is part of our preparedness. Securing Norwegian industrial workplaces in subcontracting or repurchase is part of an active industrial policy. The acquisition of defence equipment is exempt from EU and EEA tendering rules. That's how we still want it to be. We're not just dependent on research, development and competence to be competitive. It also requires that we have the ability to avoid unfortunate ethical and humanitarian speculations in relation to mixing roles. There is already a heated debate on future investment in defence, not least the development processes of individual products. Purchases from a single supplier may be very large. Both Norwegian and foreign enterprises are involved in the same product — this is how it will continue, and it will develop more strongly. If we take the potential flight purchase, which is well ahead of us in time, we are now in development agreements with two multinational groups, where we all want Norwegian industry to be involved. Additional two or three, including: In fact, Swedish stakeholders are starting to become ongoing towards some of us. In addition, the Defence Logistics Organisation has started with the central purchase of civil equipment, ranging from kitchen furniture to medicine, equipment previously purchased from local suppliers. The need for clear driving rules is obvious. Quarantine time for personnel transferring from the Defence to defence providers may be one that ensures continued confidence in the decisions taken. I am aware that the defense has some ethical driving rules for acquisition-related activities. In particular, special attention shall be paid to suppliers who have recently employed personnel who have been in charge of defence for the last two years. The fact that the FLO has now been divided with a separate investment unit can also help, because the competence accumulates in one place. However, the examples I have mentioned, and other events that most of us know, show that today's system is not good enough. I would like to ask the Council of State to consider quarantine provisions. Finally, I would like to refer to what the Council itself said in its reply to Mr Dybevig in Question Time on 22 October last year, about international cooperation, where several countries operate together on the same equipment. In fact, it can also contribute in the long term to enhancing the stability of procurement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e131	It is quite right, as the representative Marit Nybakk points out, that the defense makes annual investments in equipment and materials for nearly DKK 10 billion, and that there is currently no quarantine period for former employees in the Ministry of Defence or the Defence by changing employers. However, as I expressed in the Stortinget both on 22 October 2003, on questions from the representative of Carsten Dybevig, and later on 16 December 2003, in connection with the treatment of the FLO, former defence officers should exercise great caution in engaging in the investment activities of the Defence. In order to strengthen the focus on this issue and raise the awareness of employees and suppliers, a number of different measures in the Ministry of Defence and Defence are necessary. My ministry has therefore drawn up a plan of measures relating to the question of transfers of personnel from the defence sector to the private sector. The action plan covers the most key issues raised by the representative of Marit Nybakk in the interpellation. Work on the action plan has also assessed the standard rules of the General Organisation of Industry on prohibitions of competition, or standstill obligations, in contracts of employment. The NHO rules are usually not given a duration beyond two years. As long as the prohibition on competition remains, the undertaking shall provide him with compensation proportionate to the scope and duration of the prohibition and the obstacle to his access to other work. A similar system is statutory in Denmark. As I informed in Stortinget's Question Time on 22 October last year, the Ministry of Labour and Administration is in the process of following up on St.meld. No 11 for 2000-2001, on the relationship between the civil service, the political management of departments and other social actors, the follow-up to a communication mentioned by the interpellant in his statement. As part of this work, the Ministry of Labour and Administration is now considering a quarantine code for the State sector. I have been informed that the department intends to complete the provision by the end of the first six months of 2004, i.e. the six months we are in. The Ministry of Labour and Administration is responsible for the Ministry of Trade and Industry for the national policy of employers, with the necessary competence and insight in this area. It is therefore my opinion that the Ministry of Defence should await the legislation of the Ministry of Labour and Administration before introducing a quarantine clause into the defence's employment contracts. However, as part of a plan of measures presented today, I would like to introduce a general ethical provision in all employment contracts in the Ministry of Defence and Defence. This provision will refer to the laws and guidelines in force and it will appear that the worker will pay particular attention to private operators who have been employed in the Ministry of Defence or the Defence during the last two years. The applicable laws in force in this context are, in particular, the Administrative Act, the Public Relations Act, the Civil Service Act and the Security Act. As part of the action plan, the Ministry has also further developed its basic ethical rules on, inter alia, professional secrecy, care, flexibility and loyalty. These basic rules and the general ethical provision of employment contracts will be made known in the Department and the Defence of Job Interviews, in the case of accession agreements, in the case of training for new entrants and in the case of on-the-job interviews and in the case of the final interview, in order to ensure that these provisions and the responsibilities we expect each one to take are constantly addressed. The basic ethical rules will also be made visible through the Ministry's human resources policies and principles for management and the Defence Staff Manual. In order to further ensure that the ethical principles are made known, the rules will be published on the Internet, on the Ministry of Defence’s website on ODIN and on Defence Networks. Furthermore, the rules will be applied to the intranet of the Department and the Defence. Assignments for the implementation of the actions I have now mentioned have already been given to both the Defence Staff and the Defence Building, the Defence Research Institute and the National Safety Authority. The measures have also been initiated internally in the Ministry of Defence, and the deadline for implementation is set at the end of May this spring. In defence, we have also established our own ethical guidelines for acquisition-related activities. These are today set out in what we call BAF – Provisions concerning acquisitions in the Defence. As I mentioned in the Great Britain Question Time on 22 October last year, work is being carried out on the establishment of a new Code of Procurement for Defence – ARF – and here the ethical guidelines will be continued and further elaborated. The draft ARF as it stands now sets out, inter alia: att ‘special care shall be exercised in respect of suppliers who have recently employed personnel who have been in charge of defence during the last two years.’;» The following is also stated in the additional comments on this point: ‘On the part of the defence, special consideration must be given to the procurement process in evaluating and awarding contracts. It may be appropriate to exempt defence personnel from participating in such tasks, where they have been close colleagues with the representative of one or more of the suppliers concerned.’ By taking in these clarifications, I want to gain an additional awareness of staff transitions from the Defense to the Private Business. In order to ensure compliance, the revised ethical guidelines will be implemented earlier than the new procurement legislation, and not later than the end of March, i.e. the current month. In order to focus even more on human resources transitions from defence to private business, the Ministry of Defence will also include a requirement for information to the suppliers of defence acquisitions, in line with the ethical guidelines of the procurement law. Such information to suppliers shall indicate that suppliers themselves shall not involve former defence personnel in the procurement process in such a way that there may be any instability, or that former defence personnel may be placed in a position where they may conflict with the issued taushets statement. The implementation of such information has been submitted to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which considers that the scheme will be within the scope of the applicable public procurement legislation. With the measures and action plan I have now mentioned, in addition to the work that is expected to be presented by the Ministry of Labour and Administration during the spring, I want to achieve better compliance with the applicable laws and guidelines and to create additional awareness about the issues of staff transfers from the Ministry of Defence and the Defence of Private Business travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e177	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response and note that she has now taken some measures and has taken some initiatives. What is remarkable, however, is that neither the Minister of Defence nor the Minister of Labour and Administration has apparently taken any initiative since April 2001, not until this was included in the Questionnaire on 22 October 2003, and it was included in the debate on the Defence Logistics Organisation on 16 December 2003 – despite all the examples we have had in recent years, and despite Innst. S. No 175 for 2000-2001, based on St.meld. No 11 for 2000–2001, which gave clear leadership to the Government. In this setting, it says, among other things: a unanimous committee: ‘The Committee agrees that former officials and officials should not abuse contact networks in the old workplace to provide access to strategically important information for new employers, clients or stakeholders.’ Relocation of staff during the period of notice is also included in the setting: ‘The Committee considers the withdrawal period to be an appropriate instrument, and asks the Ministry to ensure that a standstill period of three to six months is put in place before a new position can be entered into or own activities in specific areas.’;» So this was a unanimous committee position, and it was addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Administration. I now register that the Council of State says that the Ministry of Labour and Administration will provide feedback to Stortinget. I now take note of that and will then wait for exactly what is said there. I also understand that, on that basis, the Council of State will await the question of quarantine for the notification or proposition – or what kind of feedback it will be – from the Ministry of Labour and Administration, if it comes in the spring. Although the original position of the Stortinget was about the entire breadth of the departments, which I believe the Bondevik government should follow up a long time ago, the Minister of Defence still has a very special responsibility, and that is what I believe my first post supports. In the interpellation text I also wrote that «The defence invests approximately annually. 10 B.C.E. kr”, and – and I think that may be the most important thing – the special feature that these investments are more closely linked to our national interests than to other investments underlines that the Ministry of Defence has a very special responsibility. And so do we, as defence politicians, in this Chamber. I think it is good to have ethical provisions now and that special care is taken in relation to the measures outlined by the Council of State in its statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e200	It is important to distinguish between what the Ministry of Defence can do within the existing legislation and legislation in order to ensure that we avoid conflicts of stability and a legislative work that will apply to all departments in the relationship between public employees and suppliers. I therefore think that the proposed action plan takes this into account in a good way. Thus, in the case of legislation and legislation for all departments, the Ministry of Labour and Administration has aimed at presenting a case on this during the spring of 2004, as a follow-up to the position to which the interpellant refers. Of course, the Ministry of Labour and Administration has the constitutional responsibility for the legislation that applies to everyone. My ambition has been to do what is possible within the current legal framework. I would like, among other things: drew attention to the fact that, in the measures I have launched, we are talking about having a precautionary provision for two years, it goes far beyond the period of three to six months to which the inter-pellant refers from the 2000–2001 suspension. In many areas it can therefore be said that the Ministry of Defence actually introduces further caution beyond what was in this setting. I am at least pleased that the interpellant is satisfied with the measures taken by the Ministry of Defence on its own, and I also feel confident that we will be satisfied with the legislation that the Government will present through the Ministry of Labour and Administration, relating to the entire public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e211	The representative Nybakk mentioned in his main post that new rescue helicopters should be purchased. The size has also decided to buy frigates from Fridtjof Nansen-class and new MTBs from Skjold-class. It is probably the exception rather than the rule that the purchase of defence equipment takes place within the agreed framework. The usual thing is that there will be exceedances, and as far as I know, the joint striker program has taken the consequences of this to keep costs down. The JSF project has decided that the purchase of equipment for aeroplanes should be purchased as far as possible in accordance with the principle of ‘off the shelf’, i.e. picked from the shelf as a shelf product. Buying shelf goods means that the products purchased are fully developed, tested and ready for delivery. If we return to the weapons equipment for the marine vessels, the new frigates and the MTBs, I think we can confirm that the principle of buying shelf goods has not been laid down. Both the frigates and the MTB shall have different weapons equipment, but common to both classes of vessels is that they shall be equipped with the missile known as the Norwegian Maritime Target missile, NSM. NSM shall be produced by Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace at Kongsberg. Vessels, aircraft and weapon systems are often involved in complex interactions. One is often dependent on the other. This is also true between the NSM and the marine vessels. Examining the parties and persons involved in this matter is likely to reveal staff transitions and close contact between purchasers and suppliers of defence equipment. I want to add that the marine vessels are designed for a missile that, as far as I know, has not yet flown one meter. Since the class of vessels has already been adopted, the vessels are constructed in accordance with the theoretical specifications of the missiles. Let's all hope -- at least the games that were behind the project -- that the missile in reality will be just like it looked on the drawing board. But to me, there is one question that is building up: is it not time to become mature to assess whether it is right that an increasingly scarce defence budget should finance industrial development projects? Building ships around a missile also means that the billions of development can be small in relation to the price that Kongsberg can charge for the finished missiles. Is there any alternative purchase for the missiles that allows delivery of the vessels to be completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e224	Let me first say that I think the Minister of Defence has followed up the recommendations made by the Stortinget in an excellent way. At all, I think that the interpellation, a little mildly said, has two elements in it: initially, there are some formulations that can almost be perceived as wanting to ban the profession of former officers. In other contexts, I think we get an argument that is that it is particularly stressed that you should not leak sensitive information, classified information. This last one is of course. And I want to say for my own part, to be concrete also in relation to the treatment of the logistics organization, that now, in position, I get access to almost all the information I want. Despite that, I think it was very interesting and useful to get the information that was also given by the former officer, who could this matter, and who had a slightly different angle on how this should be arranged. I wasn't a moment in doubt about who I was dealing with. And I want to say that at that time, which unfortunately lasted a little too many years, when we were in opposition, the information I received from these outsiders was absolutely crucial in order to balance the information that often came from the ministry. We didn't have that many other possibilities. So I think in many ways that there's a problem here that, first of all, the two departments in question are about to solve, and, second, I don't think you're going to exaggerate the significance of. It's my definite impression that most people know how to "separate the snows and the bars" here, and those who don't, are completely exposed in the meetings that they have with us, and that, I think, they have with the department. I want to underline one thing. We're a little country. And as the inter-pellant referred to, we have EEA rules that to some extent protect the Norwegian defence industry. The Norwegian defence industry is not too big. So if I were to point out a problem that is as big as the information given to private companies from former officers and former ministerial staff, it's the political lobbying that we see in acquisitions. It's a problem at least as big as the information we get from individual companies and individuals. We all feel that way, and we can have our thoughts that there are sometimes very close ties and short lines between some political parties and the decision-makers in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e231	Like the representative Nybakk, the party of progress is concerned with the complications that may arise from the fact that employees of the Ministry of Defence and/or the Ministry of Defence are changing sides of the customer/supplier relationship. Of course, this should not be such that these categories of employees should not be able to change their profession, but appropriate quarantine arrangements must be considered for this type of transition. This is a problem which has arisen in the past at Innst. S. No 187 for 1993-1994, assent of the Control and Constitutional Committee on Foxley's corruption conviction in relation to the exposure to Raufoss AS. In this case, it appeared that several of Raufoss AS’ representatives had previously been employed by the public administration and/or officer. This information made relevant the question of quarantine provisions for persons leaving important public purchasing positions in favour of agent representation for foreign companies with old employment as their main customer. Later this topic was discussed again in the context of Document No. 8:56 for 1995-1996 and Innst. S. No 255 for 1995-1996. In this context, a proposal was made by the Progress Party for a review of ethical guidelines for personnel responsible for procurement for state agencies and common quarantine rules. The party of progress is dissatisfied with the fact that then Minister of Defence Kosmo did not follow up on this. In Norway one today finds several companies representing the foreign defence industry. Some of these companies' representation offices have employed or linked to former members of staff of the Defence and Defence Department. Foreign defence companies have similar establishments in other European countries. The practice of companies in Norway may need to be seen as a reflection of this. In this context, it is important to focus the same search light on additions in Norwegian companies and Norwegian industry. This is a very limited market, and therefore local knowledge and contact networks are of great importance to actors. Through the media, we have been made aware that there is an unfortunate development in moving from positions in the Defence and Defence Department in terms of top officials and top officers. This should not ignore the fact that this type of issue is also widespread among lower-level employees, making the situation less visible in relation to the public search light. It is not right to focus solely on the defence industry in the context of focusing on quarantine rules. This will apply to a number of areas where there are large public acquisitions, and legislation should be adapted in this way to public employees in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e242	I would first like to thank you for the fact that this interpellation has traveled. It touches on important issues that many, including us politicians, face in everyday life, where today's practices, as we have seen, do not solve the challenges. First, there must be the real needs for defence equipment and personnel based on real defence needs to manage the store and not the store to manage the needs. One may sometimes be tempted to think that it is not obvious. I want to do a little bit of a visit to the relationship between politics and defence needs. I'm not going to rip up too much in the discussion about the missile torpedo boats, but most people will admit that it wasn't the defence needs that settled that matter, but the industrial and employment consequences. And then we're right in the middle of the discussion that Gunnar Halvorsen is going to be going on about how much a defense investment is going to finance the development of industrial products, where development costs are already largely covered. It's a very interesting discussion. But let me use another example, the fighter planes, which we might have to buy in a few years, where the real fight, as the majority of the population has formulated, stands between American Joint Striker and Eurofighter – although there are several other fighter options, including. the Swedish Gripen and others, for airspace monitoring and control purposes. The action space in relation to aircraft is snowing in many years before a clean one is actually going to buy anything. The whole reason is that around 2015 we need new fighter aircraft based on the type of military operations we were in with the F-16 in Kyrgyzstan a year ago – in cooperation with a couple of countries, preferably in a coalition and preferably NATO – according to the view of the majority of the population. This is indicative of the choice of aircraft, formulated in the Minister of Defence’s premise for the Military Investigation – and not according to national needs for air surveillance and sovereignty. If this had been necessary, we could of course choose Swedish planes and save billions of dollars – or buy other shelf goods. This is an example of the problematic relationship between needs, available equipment and political governance. In addition, we have the situation that is the subject of interpellation. It concerns the relationship between those with special competence in terms of defence needs assessments and the industry that develops solutions, and that it is possible to move from one role to another without any special delay. I am in favour of any practical proposal that can slow down the flow of information between the defence and industry – preferably with quarantine as a solution. However, the problem with the defence sector is that the time horizon for need assessment, planning and investment is so long. It means, in my opinion, that the quarantine period for personnel with strategic knowledge needs to be long enough to meet the long time horizon. Finally: Ethical guidelines are well and good. The question is whether this is sufficient or whether more stringent quarantine rules are necessary. The Minister of Defence's response here today was mainly about the situation after personnel with strategic knowledge have left the Defence Department, while I think it is important to prevent strategic knowledge from coming to the new place of work – in other words, quarantine.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e257	During the cold war, it was obvious that much information related to the defense had to be classified material. The defense has been accustomed to the environment being a closed culture. It is evident that information relating to the security of the State must be of a lack of confidentiality. However, there is a process of change in the defence system that has made civil-military cooperation more and more widespread. Several actors in the field combined with an annual investment budget of the order of DKK 10 billion have created changed assumptions. However, the culture of defence has not changed in the same way. There's still too little openness around processes, and it creates easily suspicion. The debate on the viability of Norwegian representatives in the case of NH-90 rescue helicopters shows that there is a need for clear legislation in relation to the transfer of personnel. It is important for the confidence of the Defence that there is maximum transparency and control of acquisition-related activities. The representative of Nybakk travels an interpellation which is a natural follow-up to the debate on the launch of Phase 3 in the conversion of the Defence Logistics Organisation. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the work that is now being done in relation to the action plan, general ethical provisions and basic rules — which the Council of State addressed in its intervention. Officers of the Defense Department have often joined forces at the War School and tied close ties during the study period. In this case, it is particularly important that such loyalty and such networks are not abused in future professional careers, whether they work in the Defence Department, the Ministry of Defence or manufacturers of defence equipment. By working in the Ministry of Defence or in the Ministry of Defence, the individual receives both transparency and contacts that make it attractive for manufacturers of defence equipment. It would be natural for a quarantine period to be introduced to prevent the transition from the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Defence to private business from becoming too difficult to deal with. As an independent control body, the Riksrevision has a special responsibility. The National Audit Service must follow the course of action in the Defence – and also follow it, for example. tender round carefully. The national audit itself must be responsible for obtaining sufficient transparency. There may be cases where political leadership has to act against the Defence in order to ensure that the National Audit Office has access to information so that the National Audit Office can act as an effective control body. Continuous attention is important, although the defence has strict ethical guidelines. It is a fact that some individuals abuse their power and influence to secure some enterprises contracts or to influence conversion processes in the Defence. The defence will always depend on the morality and integrity of the individual worker. In order to avoid irregularities, it is therefore important to have clear staff transition guidelines as an additional security.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e278	There is an important issue addressed by the interpellant, especially at a time when defence is being reorganised as strongly as it is today. Many have to seek new jobs and areas of work, while at the same time defending large investment – even in the years to come. The centre party shares many of the views expressed on these questions from the interpellant. But I want to stress that the problem is not that there are people who are lobbying towards us, on behalf of commercial or economic interests. This kind of lobbyism then happens knowingly both in the case of former defence workers and former politicians. We have to be able to evaluate the information given to us in this respect. The issue is whether the defence – which has such a special investment and procurement structure – should have specific rules on the transition from defence work to other activities. In this context, one must also take into account that defence is a less transparent system than would exist in many other public enterprises. The Central Party notes that the Minister of Defence wishes to await the follow-up of St.meld by the Ministry of Labour and Administration. No 11, and considers it reasonable. However, we believe that one after that work needs to assess whether there is a particular need for further rules for the Ministry of Defence and Defence, for example. in the form of quarantine provisions. I think it is positive that both the interpellation and the debate we have had on these issues in the past have raised awareness of the issue, which is important. Then there's a question about what kind of guidelines you give, which I think is important. It is a good thing that a person chooses ethical guidelines. The question is how binding ethical guidelines actually become, not only for the employee, but also for the employer. What you experience is that a temporary ban or an ethical guideline that means that you should stay away from certain types of business for a period of time appears to be a real restriction on the choice of work by workers. It should also oblige the employer to some extent. The NHO's provisions on quarantine and transitions are inherently binding on the employer. The introduction of ethical guidelines instead of quarantine provisions should not become a route chosen because it becomes less binding on the employer than having a quarantine provision, which in many cases appears to be the most tidy and formal one.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e294	The interpellant has raised an important matter, a matter which, in my view, should be kept warm. The interpellant stressed the re-examined objectivity, flexibility and integrity. That might be the short version of the whole thing. The state makes large purchases and is thus an interesting partner and customer. Since the state is all of us, it is important that those who represent us, i.e. the Minister of Defense, when it comes to what we are now discussing, have driving rules that ensure that the processes are sufficiently transparent for us to have a good enough basis to decide whether one or the other option should be chosen. We need clear guidelines, so that the state, that is, all of us, gets it out of our purchases that taxpayers are rightly expecting. This applies both to the primacy of the material in relation to the tasks it is intended to perform, to the greatest extent possible out of the money, and to the ability of investment within reasonable limits to contribute to technology development and employment in Norway. I think it is positive that the Minister of Defence informs us of the grips that have now been taken. Suppliers must be aware of the ethical rules, and those who benefit from previous inclusions in the Defence Act are followed up separately. I would also like to comment on a specific matter, namely that the frigates of the Fridtjof Nansen class and the MTB of Skjold class will be a good vessel for the business of the Norwegian Navy. Our coast is long, and the resources that are both at sea and below sea are formidable. The barrages against these resources are many, and the vessels this is about can probably also help to monitor our coastal areas in a good way, as well as the military tasks. The representative of Gunnar Halvorsen was in his post in the Norwegian Maritime Mission and the misconceptions the missile has against the marine vessels that are now being built. In the 2004 draft budget of the Ministry of Defence, there was a brief text on this subject. In NSM's review, it said, among other things. that the development phase would continue until 2005 and that the cost of the project was 1 840 million. kr. It further stated that the outcome of the contract negotiations was planned for Stortinget in the autumn of 2003, but that it was delayed and that the basis for bringing this case before Stortinget was not satisfactory. It might therefore be interesting to get a comment from the government council on when the department will bring this matter before the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e314	The interpellant addresses a topic that is very important from an administrative point of view. On 22 October last year, I asked the Minister of Defense a similar question about giving the quarantine to key defence personnel whether they went from important procurement functions in the Defence to corresponding positions in defence equipment suppliers. The Minister of Defence then, as today, gave a clear explanation of the progress of the case. This is not only an important case for defence personnel, but generally applies to other central management and purchasing personnel in central government. Large purchases are made in certain cases by a few persons. Former members of staff in purchasing functions may have been assigned to key positions of defence equipment suppliers. These people will have insightful relationships and a lot of knowledge about the defence. Defence is facing significant investments in the future of highly advanced technical equipment. The total for 2004 is close to DKK 10 billion – 7.5 billion for material and the remainder for EBA investments. Both the continuation of helicopter acquisitions and the future purchase of combat aeroplanes require not least extensive technical competence in the selection process of the best imaginable equipment. Often, the purchases from a single supplier are very large. In particular, the procurement of the defence will sometimes be extremely important for the future existence of some of the manufacturers of the equipment. Recruitment of key personnel by these manufacturers as sales agents to the Defense will create very unfortunate speculations about the Stability. The introduction of quarantine provisions will clarify the roles of defence personnel and clarify the prerequisites for manufacturers. The defence management, like the community, must not worry about the stability of the employees. Clear guidelines and instructions also facilitate the pressure on the individual employee, who may experience an extraordinary pressure due to heavy decision-making processes. In the Question Time on 22 October 2003, the Council of State gave a view that would be preventive and a prerequisite for avoiding unfortunate ethical and viable speculations in relation to the blending of roles. The defence is currently undergoing major redundancies in personnel, while the defence is facing the greatest economic and technological investment effort ever. Therefore, in addition to competence, it is also necessary to focus on stability assessments. In contrast to a number of other countries, general rules have little been laid down in Norway in relation to staff transfers. At the same time, the exchange of personnel between the public and private sectors has many positive aspects. It is therefore important not to build unnecessary barriers to staff transition. In addition to the design of legislation and guidelines, there will also be a question of the morality and integrity of individuals. In particular, it is also necessary to look at what can be done to improve purchasing procedures, better roll-out of personnel, and to introduce quarantine provisions for employees in purchasing functions by any change of employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e329	There are important issues raised by the interpellant. Defence processes are still characterised by a lack of transparency and transparency for the public. This may be due to the complexity of the matter more than the lack of willingness to inform. Nevertheless, we need to be aware that staff transitions from the public to the private sector in the middle of complex and costly projects can be problematic. Corruption is a very strong expression. I will not link this word to this matter. Nevertheless, the debate concerns trust in the integrity of the administration. In a similar way as in relation to the political level, the civil service must be neutral and independent – this applies to external actors with an interest in specific public dispositions and decisions. This means not only that the administration should act in substance, objectively, impartially and in accordance with established rules, but also that management must be perceived by the environment in order to maintain trust. It is in this context, when most people perceive what is happening as a distortion of competition by the fact that an actor can take advantage of knowledge and contact the others do not have, that the term ‘corruption’ can be used. A high ethical standard in general government is a prerequisite, but not a matter of course. It is therefore reassuring that the Council of State now alerts measures that will ensure the processes of acquisitions in the Defence. It would be useful for all parties that acquisitions involving large amounts are regularly the subject of a refocusing on the rules of administrative law. It shall prevent officials and officials themselves from taking decisions where their own interests are particularly affected. If you have to know people in order to get a pass, you're in a corrupt grey zone. Actions that respond to someone – person, company or other association – in an unjustified way are unacceptable and can be described as corruption-like. No advantage shall be granted which is contrary to law, regulation or other regulation. Staff transition guidelines will help to avoid irregularities. It will also be important for confidence in the Defence in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e342	I would first like to thank you for a very constructive and very useful debate, with a lot of fine input. I agree with Marit Arnstad that it is okay that the Council of State is now awaiting the response of the Ministry of Labour and Administration to the treatment of St.meld. No 11 spring 2001. Then we have to consider whether, in this context, we need to have stronger rules for the defence, which have both a special purchasing structure and graduated systems, which means that we have to be extra careful. I think that is a clear conclusion to the debate. I was a little surprised by the representative Hernæs. I don't know if it was a joke, or if it was a «slip of the tongue», when he almost accused the undersigned of going in for the «Berufsverband» or saying no to lobbyists. I assume that the representative Hernæs did not mean it that way. With regard to the current example from the FLO, the ICT section, the main problem is not that we get lobbyists to visit, but that they come with hats other than those they actually have, or maybe they have two hats and should say from what hats it was. This is about weather caution posters, it's about possible quarantine time, which should probably be longer for defence than for other states, and it's about ethical guidelines and stability – yes, it's about defence employees, in the FLO or in the Ministry of Defence that goes directly from a development process in the Department or in the Defence to one of several stakeholders, that's to switch sides in the relationship with the customer/supplier, as it was expressed. This results in one competitor gaining access to sensitive and classified information and gaining competitive advantages in relation to the others, i.e. knowledge acquired by a public official in his/her working situation, which flows to one of several stakeholders and thus distorts the level of information between potential suppliers. Both the Storting and the County Council of State must be able to rely on the expertise provided to us to be based on objectivity, flexibility and integrity. And when the Defense has chosen the product and supplier and submitted it to the Stortinget via the Government and the Government, we should know that it is the customer who decides, and that there is a real assessment behind the proposition or the message we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e355	I too would like to thank you for a good debate and for what I have seen as broad support for the fact that we have an extra care requirement in the Defence and Defence Department, which may be larger than in some other departments and agencies. I would like to make it clear that when the Ministry of Labour and Administration has initiated a feedback response during the spring of 2004, it does not necessarily mean that the matter is submitted to the Stortinget. It depends on whether or not a roll-up decision is required, or whether there is something that can be implemented without going via Stortinget. Several people have been involved with this with additional demands for the defence. I just want to stress that when we now introduce a special care during the first two years after a transfer of personnel from the Ministry of Defence and the Defence to a private enterprise, it very much reminds us of a two-year quarantine. So we're doing this on our own -- for us, without it being for all departments and all the underlying units, because we want to get started, and because we want there to be an extra check of the relationship between the defense, the ministry and the industry the first two years after such a transition. So this is what we're going to start right away, regardless of the work going on in the Ministry of Labour and Administration. Then there are several questions that have been raised in principle regarding whether to buy shelf goods, whether to go into development projects that offer opportunities for Norwegian industry, and also whether to use the defence for tenders or not. Here is the law that the defence is not required to make use of tenders in respect of acquisitions. We are therefore exempt from the EEA legislation, and it provides and has traditionally provided good opportunities for directing contracts to Norwegian industry. The risk of that profile and that access is that if you choose a development project in Norwegian industry instead of choosing a shelf product of a finished product, there is a risk of that, because it has not been tested and tested, as a shelf product is. The risk must be willing on a case-by-case basis to take. With regard to the frigate project and the NSM, this hall has been willing to accept the risk of giving a Norwegian company a development contract on a product that is not finished when we sign the contract on the frigate. But it is clear that the fewer projects the defence has on the acquisition side, and the larger they become, the greater the risk of not choosing a shelf product. The Defence Committee, the Storting and the Defence Committee jointly have an important future challenge to take a closer look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e368	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e385	Norwegian society has traditionally been built on community-related values, equality and distribution. We've been proud of a society of few inequalities and where the distance between most people has been small. There have always been challenges to poverty and wealth, but the basic attitude has been that the community should find solutions to care for the individual. We have had a responsibility not only for seafaring, but also for taking care of each other. It looks like a lot of people are moving away from this basic idea. It is becoming increasingly clear that we have a new ideological distinction in welfare policy. The distinction goes between those who want general equalisation schemes and those who believe to be more targeted, individual measures aimed at those who have the worst. We see a trend from justice and cohesion policy to a policy of charity and charity. We live in a society that's still changing, and that's why we have to look for new solutions. The question will be what will be the basis for the solutions. Here we are facing a choice of values. The objective of equivalent living conditions and fair distribution is a choice of values. The distribution policy shows the most profoundly the nature of the society on which it is to be based. That's why what we're going to have today is an in-depth debate that we only have the opportunity to take a small part of. Marit Solli of the Salvation Army stated in the ‘Son is life’ on March 3 that the group of people in the edge zone of the Government’s poverty definition is only increasing. These are social-security or other people who live on social benefits, people of their best age who should have the opportunity to survive. Sollis' experience is that this group of rescue workers is increasing dramatically. Drug users are a marginal group in this context. The fight against poverty requires solidarity and unselfishness, and it requires willingness to see the problem in a wider perspective than simply saying that those with less than DKK 85 000 in annual income have difficulty. Being poor is about not being able to participate in the society of which you are part. It could mean not being able to send the children in birthdays or summer camp, being excluded from participation in social activities that most of us take for granted. It should be a wake-up to the recent UN International Welfare Report that shows that differences between rich and poor in Norway are increasing as much as during Margaret Thatcher’s time in the United Kingdom. The same report also shows that the other Nordic countries have a more balanced distribution of income than Norway. The question is, what does this do to our society? What will be the impact of the structural changes we are now seeing on the future? The Secretary-General of the Church's Bymition, Helen Bjørnøy, has stated that the ideological content of the Government's plan of action against poverty is very close to the spirit of charity, because everything is directed towards the individual. It is precisely the targeted measures in relation to individual individuals that are the government’s solution to poverty problems. The centre party acknowledges the importance of special measures against those groups that fall outside, but this does not hold true if the objective is that everyone should be able to participate in the development of well-being. If the goal is justice and participation for all, it has to widen strategies. The fact that people do not have work is an important cause of poverty and social problems. A job not only provides economic security, it also confirms that you can do something, and that society needs the resources that the individual has. If you lose your job, it's easy that the footrest slips. Therefore, we need to focus on labour market policy and the challenges associated with the goal of all having a job. Everyone seems to agree that work is essential for combating poverty, but what is happening? On the one hand, work is said to be the only activator to participate in welfare development. At the same time, there is a policy that leads to the labour market becoming a referee and a referee, with the risk of more people falling outside. It is more effective in all areas. The goal is high tempo, fast replacements and constant conversions. A job no longer seems to have its own value. The workplaces are losing in the fight for higher profits. It's hard to understand that this is related to the focus on having a job if you're going to survive in society. In St.meld. No 19 for 2003-2004, a well-functioning labour market, it is said that the Government attaches great importance to the inclusion of the labour market, so that individuals can use their skills for the benefit of the sea and society. This is good, but how is it followed up? The same big message also says that a consequence of shy welfare schemes may be that some people find it less attractive to work. It is difficult to understand that the government focuses on the question of whether welfare schemes are too good, instead of looking at what you have to do for all those who actually want to have a job. The approach taken by the Labour Code Committee focuses on today’s challenges related to working life. Modernisation must also involve a law that guarantees the rights of workers and provides a working life for all. The centre party will not be able to accept legislation that impairs the rights of vulnerable working parties. Director-General Gerd-Liv Valla has stated the following in this context: ‘In crucial areas such as temporary employment, working time and job protection, this is the recipe of a more brutal working life. The majority's proposals are far away and are contrary to what we believe should be the fascination of a safer and more humane working life. That's the opposite of what such a law is for." This can be joined by the Center Party. A law for a more uncertain working life will be an essential element in the development towards greater class divisions and less equitable distribution. Instead, in a time that requires change and change, investment should be made in safe and motivated workers. It is a challenge that social security expenditure is increasing, as we see now, and that there is a significant proportion of the working-age population that is being neglected. On top of this, there has also been an increase in sick leave. This is alarming. Here there is a large group of people who can easily be at risk not only of losing their jobs but also of losing their foothold in society. It needs a safety net that is fine-masked enough to catch them. This means that we need to maintain good and general welfare arrangements such as daycare and health care. The government's concern that some people will take advantage of the opportunities not to work if welfare schemes are too good is rejected by several teams. Fafo researcher Tone Føtten says that there are very few people who want to go to social assistance. In addition, it still seems unworthy to go to the social office. Most people will do everything they can to let go of just this. We must dare to think again in relation to the combination of social security and work. Today, the system is set up in such a way that flexibility between work and social security is very low. So society loses a lot of good labour that could have been exploited for the benefit of the community. There are innumerable tasks that could have been solved by a few percentage points of work, which would have a good effect on each employee. The chance of slipping out of the system is much less when you feel that you matter, and that you can do a job for the benefit of the community. In the fight against poverty, the right to housing is very important. Today, it's no natural for everyone to have a place to live. A better grip on housing policy needs to be taken. The government's response to the housing problem is mainly directed at the homeless. This is important, but the Center Party believes that housing policy must have a wider approach. In these days, the papers are full of headlines about housing prices that sink to weather because of the low interest rate. But it's not like you can just borrow anything to a dwelling if you don't actually have an income that can serve interest and instalments. That is why we believe that social housing needs to be repatriated and that the framework of the House Bank needs to be strengthened. It is necessary to provide for an increase in the level of low-income housing for first-time settlers and an improvement in housing support, so that one-person households with low incomes can benefit from housing support schemes. It is difficult not to address the interception of public services in this debate. When local authorities are given such a tight framework that jobs need to be reduced, for example for personal assistants or organized education, this will affect those who are weakest and who can easily lose their foothold. We must not lose sight of the debate relating to the resources and opportunities of the municipalities. The tax system must also be discussed on the basis of the poverty reduction, cohesion and distribution objective. It is gradually many in our rich country who can contribute more to the community than they do today, which will be a prerequisite for lifting those who have the most difficult. There is no easy solution to the poverty challenges we face. It is therefore necessary to adopt an overall approach. Per. Today, changes are being made in different sectors, such as the labour market, the public sector — cuts in the public sector — and the housing market, which together make a mistake for those who are disadvantaged for various reasons. The centre party does not believe that the solution to the fight against poverty is an individualised charity idea, but believes in upgrading values of distribution and cohesion that Norway has been uplifted for decades. The active substances must be adjusted. The values must be fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e428	I will answer the interpellation on behalf of the Government. Poverty can be abolished roughly in two ways: you can increase social security and social security, even if it may involve a still passive recipient's existence, or you can help people to cope with their own work. The main focus of the government is to enable more people to support themselves through their own work. Work gives the feeling of being useful and belonging. It is also the safest way out of poverty and the best way to prevent poverty. It is important for those who are unable to participate in the labour market to provide adequate income protection. The answer to Hagas’ questions is therefore: In the long term, more people will manage themselves because the government is targeting targeted measures. Several long-term social welfare recipients will be able to support themselves. Several drug users will receive the necessary health care and help to get into action, and several single mothers will be helped to complete education. This is in line with the objectives we have set. The measures proposed by the Government are based on this. The government proposed a number of measures aimed at poverty in the budgets for 2002 and 2003. They are continued in 2004 in addition to a further investment of 239 million. DKK in 2004. The effort for these purposes has never been greater. The government’s extra effort towards poor and heavy drug users is close to NOK 2 billion. There is a broad political consensus in the Stortingen on this. Social welfare schemes and services have grown over a longer period of time, with some social problems and challenges other than those facing us today. We are obliged to keep a searchlight on whether the arrangements hit, or whether the arrangements over time have received a different device and a different amount from what was originally intended. We cannot allow ourselves uncritically to continue all the arrangements. This year we spend NOK 183 billion on social purposes. The cost of social security is rising by NOK 15 billion this year only. Never before has it been used more for social purposes. I see that this doesn't impress Haga. It should. Most of this goes to sickness and disability. It must be an objective to take action that will bring people back to work as quickly as possible. Here, work on inclusive working life is important, but also the new unfavourable reform. 700 people have been granted temporary unpaid pay and receive a special follow-up with a view to getting back to work when they are ready for it. It is important to distinguish between general welfare schemes intended for all, irrespective of the economy, and targeted actions for those outside. It's e.g. not in such a way that the kindergarten agreement negotiated last autumn is of the greatest benefit to them. If welfare systems are to provide welfare and security in the future, everyone who can contribute to the community must do so, while welfare schemes are reserved for those who need public assistance on a temporary or permanent basis. The government has carried out systematic and thorough work in which the target audiences and measures are clearly defined. What is the government doing? We have established and strengthened new places in labour market measures for long-term recipients of social assistance, immigrants and refugees. Those who have been outside now get work training and a new chance. Per. On 31 January 2004, a total of 1,637 measures are being taken, while 1,390 are being clarified with a view to their deployment, almost 3,400 in total. Near 60 pst. have entered into work or are in the process of self-financed education. In 2003, 5,074 were notified to Aetat from the social service with a need for action. Lonely caregivers in education receive an improved social welfare scheme. For example, a single mother who had a young child could now go to school one year longer. Education increases the possibility of work.The provision of follow-up services in housing for the homeless and drug addicts in the metropolitan municipalities is increasing and the framework for housing grants is extended. The area requirement for families with children in municipal rental dwellings is removed. It is estimated that 4,500 new families will receive support. The bout toll bar in the big cities is being raised, and it is over that only families with house-bank-funded housing are receiving housing support. The medicinal product-assisted rehabilitation offer is strengthened and further developed. In 2003, 2 431 treatments were received. This is 1 000 more than in 2001.In 2001, 8 million were given. to low-threshold health measures in eight municipalities. In 2004, we're going to have 43.4 million. DKK for this, and low-threshold health services are established in 35 municipalities. These are lifesaving measures for the heaviest addicts, and they work. Overdosage figures have been drastically reduced during the same period.We are creating 85 new places in labour market measures for those participating in such schemes. We're talking here about giving the most worn-out drug addicts who are on their way back to life, something useful to fill the days with. The competence of social services towards long-term recipients of social assistance is strengthened. The Equalisation Notice clearly showed that the biggest living conditions differences in Norway are between those in work and those who are not. Smoothing is important, but it is best done by lifting those who have the least. In addition, the government has followed up with a number of targeted measures aimed at the most disadvantaged with a view to reducing poverty. Universal welfare systems are important, but that is not enough. We see that some people fall outside. Poverty cannot be remedied only through universal mechanisms and a broad cohesion policy. In addition, today’s challenges require more targeted efforts towards the weakest. But we must also dare to look at the arrangements with new eyes. When, for example, Now reduces the time period you can receive rehabilitation money, and improves the follow-up, so that you can get each one back to work faster. More than half a million people in this country are out of work. They're unqualified, sick, unemployed. They're rehabing, rehabilitating, or they're social clients. The government has taken a number of such measures to get people back to work, to manage themselves. We have begun to see results: Since 2001, the social security system has been in contact with 60,000 people. 20 000 have had a conversation with the floor. Nearly 4,200 have returned to work in whole or in part. This results in a better economy, but also a number of other positive effects that work has. As mentioned above, we have started a targeted job of getting long-term beneficiaries of social assistance back to work. Here, too, we see results.We have introduced the right to an individual level. This is an important tool in resolving individual challenges. The aim is to increase employment and activity and reduce social security and social security benefits. Services and benefits must be designed in such a way as to contribute collectively to the individual’s being given the help and follow-up necessary to get into work. New and amended rules for vocational retraining from 1 January of this year, as an example, have the very aim of speeding up the return of individuals to work. The work for a more inclusive working life, better coordination of welfare settings and the provision of framework conditions that make businesses viable are also important areas of intervention for the Government. I believe the goal of getting more in work and fewer in social security is in line with people's wishes and goals for their own lives. A one-sided effort to develop social security schemes such as income protection could help people to remain beneficiaries in a difficult life situation, with low income throughout their lives. Poverty, and the risk of living in a situation of persistently low incomes, are largely linked to a lack of or little connection to working life. If we're going to prioritize everyone and do everything for everyone, we don't give enough to those who need it the most, we don't prioritize. This could mean that someone gets more, and something else, than others. The government is pursuing a policy based on the individual's natural desire to stand on his own, while at the same time preparing the basis for our welfare arrangements to be sustainable in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e498	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What we got very well illustrated by the answer, is just some of the things that were my main point in taking up this interpellation, namely to clarify the ideological distinction that is gradually developing in Norwegian policy. Some are concerned with justice, cohesion and distribution. Others are concerned with targeted, individual measures such as the poverty reduction strategy. I'm not saying that you can't have the same sacred objectives associated with this, but I find that the approach is fundamentally different. We in the Central Party believe it would be an accident if we moved from the idea of justice and cohesion to this policy of charity and charity, because it does something about our society. A society with greater differences increases the tension in society. I have two questions for the Minister of Social Affairs. Firstly, does she agree with me that there is an ever clearer ideological distinction in the fight against poverty in Norway? That's the one question I want to ask. The second question I want to ask is related to the reports we receive, including: from the United Nations, that differences in Norway are actually increasing, and they are increasing dramatically, and whether that development actually concerns the Minister of Social Affairs. Then I'm talking about a society where the differences are increasing, and where we're not just looking at the difference between those who have the worst, and those who have the best, but where we look at society as a whole. I experience it so that the government has a desire to magic away the poor. There's a large group of people, maybe between 100,000 and 200,000, falling between all the chairs. They are too sick or have different disabilities that make them not attractive in the labour market, which are still being discussed, but at the same time they are too healthy to be able to get disability benefits. These people are offered community social assistance, where they have to go and ask for money every month. These are people who don't want to fall under the government's definition of poor people, because they have more than $85,000 a year to live for. These are people who can quickly end up in the very poorest group if they do not get help to get out of the difficult situation they are in. I see the time has passed. I'm coming back to the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e511	I noticed that the representative Haga is looking at 283 billion kroner for popular protection and an increase of 15 billion kroner in 2004 as an almsperson. I don't. Yes, there is an ideological distinction. Some people believe that a person should be able to combine general welfare schemes and believe in them, and that is what the Government believes, but that is not enough. In addition, targeting and individual focus is required. I would also like to remind you that Chapter 9 of the Equalisation Notice – and when the Equalisation Notice was presented, the representative was Hagas’ own party represented in the driver’s seat – just mentions what is going on targeting in addition to soaking up and individuality. It is possible that the Centre Party has changed its position since that time. So until it's about the report that worries me. Of course it worries me. It is just that the United Nations report to which Haga referred came in 2001. It shows the evolution from the mid-1980s to the mid-1990s, when Haga and Hagas put their own party in the driver's seat. This report is one of several reasons why the Government has chosen to focus on poverty. The report shows — even though it is old and shows ten years back — that Norway is the best country to live in for most of us. It also shows that Norway has at least differences compared to other countries in Europe. The general welfare systems are important, but that is not enough. Even though we have this security network, people are falling through. I notice that Haga wants a broad definition of poverty that includes more than what the Government uses. What we can agree on is that it is difficult to find an exact definition of poverty. It's both a subjective and an objective size. However, I think that Haga bombs when she almost seems to think that as many as possible are included in the definition. The point must be to figure out who needs a hand from the community, and what individuals need to be able to handle themselves. We are following developments at the low income threshold, but also other social indicators that can provide both a better and a broader picture of poverty and social exclusion. We also produce a report on the state of play in today's Norway, especially in this area, to see if the policy is working, and whether there is a need to adjust the course, where we meet all these voluntary organisations such as the United Kingdom. Haga referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e522	There has been a concerted growth that has expressed the desire not to war against poverty, so at least fighting it. We have also been relatively in agreement on the importance of having a job, and that exclusion from working life often leads to poverty. It has therefore been important to pursue a policy that provides a basis for inclusion in working life, including those who, for a short or longer period of their life, are unable to have a job. Despite this apparent consensus, it appears in practice that established schemes are hampering the path to work. Let me give you some examples. Experience gained from several of the protected enterprises which have gradually become more dependent on self-financing and profits shows that more and more groups, in particular those with mental retardation, are being pushed out of businesses as a result of market requirements. When that happens, something has to be wrong. The size decided to shorten the time limit in order to receive rehabilitation money. The idea was that the auxiliary equipment should intensify its work with regard to return to work. Experience shows that many people are not being treated, or have to wait unnecessarily long for treatment, or that their medical condition is such that they need longer periods of rehabilitation. The majority of Stortinget said that in such situations, one had to have a flexible regulatory framework, but feedback tells us that the regulatory framework is being practised so rigorously that the result for many people is disapproved instead of work. The temporary exercise gave the whole of the Storting its support, but the majority decided that the benefits should be significantly less than the general disability benefit, and provided it with a device based on a strange logic, that for poor and sick people the poor economy will spur on increased labour input, while for prosperous there will be even more money and tax relief to increase labour input. If the Minister of Social Affairs really wants to combat poverty, she must re-evaluate a number of the schemes put in place in the last two years, schemes that clearly have poverty-creating consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e537	The biggest betrayal we can do to those who are poor is not to remove obstacles and change systems that can help people to get into work. For work, the safest way is out of poverty. That is why, in its time of government, the Co-operation Board has proposed a series of measures to help people out of work and change systems, so that people do not lose weight in working. The current government has started a change of course in welfare policy. Those who need it the most should also get the most help, and people should get solutions based on that they are individuals. It is about taking the consequences of the fact that, despite our extensive welfare and support schemes, there are some who are falling through. It's also about the willingness to give priority to those who have the most difficulty among us. Changes and re-priorities in welfare systems and social policy are not an easy matter to face. The most pleasant thing for a government would perhaps be to let it scour and go as before and rather put in a little extra funds when an acute need arises, for changes result in constant protests. The centre party protests, too. But when a party protests the Government's poverty policy through an interpellation in the Great Britain, I probably expected a vandal of innovation, even from the Center Party. However, when the government's concern is that it has shifted from a general objective of cushioning economic and social differences to more targeted efforts against the poor, it shows that one does not want or manage to take on board that today's system in which welfare systems are lubricated thinly in order to reach the maximum possible does not prevent the poor from falling through. It is good cohesion policy that most of us refrain from some welfare schemes to finance measures against poverty. I also wonder at the opposition of the Center Party to targeted measures, which takes into account the fact that all so-called groups are made up of different individuals with different needs. We operate with targeted measures also in respect of other groups, and I am not familiar with special schemes and selective instruments that are unknown to the Centre Party. But when we come to the poor, the group of society that may need the most attention and concrete help, no, then it is suddenly not appropriate to take action that takes. The Minister of Social Affairs has gone through what the Government has made concrete changes, so I will let that lie. But it's tempting to ask the representative Haga what the Central Party really is against. Is there the removal of the area requirement for families with children in municipal rentals, which will lead to approx. 4,500 new families come under the housing support scheme? Or is it that the social welfare system for some single providers of education is improved to make it easier for them to support themselves in their own work? Or is there perhaps the creation of new places in work measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, immigrants and refugees and persons involved in medically assisted rehabilitation? All these are examples of the government's targeted poverty reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e552	The most unworthy and most unnecessary thing about poverty in Norway is that children are affected by this new poverty. In the last ten years, Norway has experienced a growth of wealth without parallel in Norwegian history, but not everyone is allowed to join that party. At least 30,000 children, perhaps even more, have to be careful to stand outside and watch. The Government's action plan on poverty states that families with children must be at the top of the fight to eradicate poverty in Norway. The problem is that this is not at all what has happened in the so-called poverty reduction of Regeninga. There is a dramatic gap between what the Government says it will do in the action plan against poverty, and what the Government is actually doing in its overall economic structure, especially with regard to children and families with children. What has this government proposed in the three state budgets it has submitted? Well, cut in child welfare, cut in the support supplement for temporary unpaid pay and cut in support of child care for lone dependants. These are just three examples of proposals that directly affect families with children and that only affect families with children. In addition, unsocial cuts that also hit families with children are coming hard. This applies to cuts in leave and increased excesses, just to mention some examples. Those who are hit hardest are the ones who already have the least. Therefore, SV has also accepted all these proposals. In this way, the government makes the masks of the social security network rougher and rougher. This means that more and more people are falling through, and in particular this concerns families with children. There are just a lot of those who are bordering on economic difficulties, who are hit by such a policy, those who are just above the poverty line with which the government operates, and whom the inter-pellant Åslaug Haga calls the ‘nearly poorest’. The government's plan is to try to capture some of those who fall through this network by their so-called tailor-made, social policy measures. The major problem of the government is that the more people who fall through, the more people who are not caught. In this way, there won't be fewer poor children. There will be more poor children. That is why the fight of the Social Minister and the Government against poverty, especially the fight against child poverty, is initially condemned to be a failure, and so is it. The differences show that. It is this representative Heieren Hundhammer calling a change of course in welfare policy. That's absolutely correct. That's what it is. The question then is whether the Minister of Social Affairs believes it is possible to combat poverty by continuing to systematically tighten up and erode social welfare systems and to distribute billions to those who have the most of them. This cannot be targeted at those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e569	I notice that the representative Haga uses the anti-sampling message as a template for how we should smooth out economic differences and achieve more justice, and thinks that the cooperation government has put itself on a completely different line. I can't agree on this. Action plan against poverty is a follow-up to the anti-dithering message. Why can I say that? Yes, under the main priorities of the Equalizer message we wrote: ‘The Government will notify strategies and measures with this message with a view to reducing unwanted differences in economic resources and living conditions, with particular emphasis on improving the lives of the poorest.’ As the name of this message says, tying up lives was a main priority. Equivalent living conditions and fair distribution were a value choice. There was a measure of small differences between King Solomon and Jørgen Hafmakar. An egalitarian society was a value in itself, and it would contribute to less social conflicts. It leads to more cohesion and community. This choice of values is established in the Christian People's Party. But today we are still challenged on the welfare of our priorities – a priority debate we can't skip. Today we are in the midst of an important debate, namely on the relationship between individual arrangements on one side and universal arrangements on the other. There is little doubt that there is a need to think about something new. When neo-poverty can survive in the welfare society of Norway, it shows that universal systems alone cannot help them with the greatest needs. The recognition that someone falls out of line with all the good measures, means that we have to think about something new. Our moral test on society is just how we take care of our weakest and marginalized groups. That's why targeting came in. I would like to remind the representative Haga that this is in line with the anti-sampling message and is described in Chapter 9. This is why measures to combat poverty have been put in place. If we're going to prioritize something, we have to deprioritize something else. We need to focus on those who can't handle themselves. We need to focus on the losers in society. Then we have to focus less on those of us who manage themselves. That's what I call welfare priorities. It will be even clearer in the future. So Haga calls this charity policy. I'd like to think so, but I'm afraid that such attitudes undermine the social office as a safety net, and neither does it care for the human dignity of the marginalized groups that go to the social office. Nor should we forget that it is through the idea of equalization that the differences have become greater. The action plan against poverty was never meant to be a new outreach message. He was essentially going to build on previously established policies. Therefore, the action plan is a build-up on the forecast and not a new baseline. Finally, I just want to put behind the words of Tony Blair, who says: Our focus is not primarily whether the rich are rich, but whether the poor are poor and how we can help the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e589	First, let me say that the Equalisation Communication was a good starting point for an action plan against poverty. When this government came back with the action plan, it was very marked by another ideology. This by means of targeted and individual organisation leads to stigmatisation, and it also weakens the universal arrangements to be the secure safety network when general relief measures are needed. The media policy, the spirit of charity, is going wrong. The Minister of Social Affairs may refer to numbers of increases in the social security budget, etc., but it shows more that what is now being added to is not accurate enough, it is not good enough. Had we had universal arrangements, good measures for return to work and inclusive working life, good measures to help people in a generally difficult situation, so that they get back on track, these tailoring measures would be less appropriate. The Minister of Social Affairs had a numerical statistical information that would seem impressive. It doesn't do that to me. Among other things, In the United Kingdom, the number of drug users now receiving help, including in the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. by strengthening medically assisted work against some drug users. Health director Hansen is very concerned that precisely social somatic measures are absent. When we know that both institutions, municipalities and e.g. the organisation KRAFT responds to the fact that very many fall outside the framework of Rusreform II, there is some error in the policy pursued by the Government. This has now arisen, among others. following the above-mentioned drug reform. We're going to bring people back to work. That's right. But in the government's individual proposals, there are many measures that do not stimulate it, in my opinion. Lonely caregivers should get better. For example, what happens? With the child's back? Indeed, child-responsiveness is being tested for individual groups, and it is the poorest and most disadvantaged who receive a test of their child-responsiveness when they have to receive social support from the social office. No one else has a need test. It turns out that there is a strong increase in the cooperation and contact of the Social Security Agency with the clientele. The government has done too bad work there in terms of coordination of social security, work measures and social assistance measures. The SATS project presented by the Government was so bad that it was sent back. The Social Minister says that it is difficult to find exact poverty definitions. We have pointed out, among other things: in the poverty action plan, that we could use 60 pst. of the median income, as pointed out by the OECD and used by the EU. Then we would capture a lot of people in the group that is just above the income of NOK 85 000, as the government uses. Then we wanted a safety net for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e606	The left is that most people will and should manage themselves through their own work and income. The individual shall have freedom and responsibility. The community's responsibility is to set up for those who, for various reasons, are unable to manage themselves and who need help for a short or longer time. This is not an alms. It's solidarity. There are two main problems in welfare policy. One thing is that for many of the poorest cases, they are excluded because they cannot benefit from the general schemes. This was also a theme before the last collapse option. The co-operation administration addressed poverty problems in a way that no other government has ever done before. It's left-wing happy and proud of. The second problem is that the cost of well-being rises above our heads and causes the issue of welfare states to be raised with full weight. The annual increase in the population’s spending takes away much of the political space for action, creates problems for the growth power of the economy and can put a heavy burden on the shoulders of future generations. Reforms are needed to make well-being viable. It is unsolvable to be negative to all the reforms and changes that can make well-being more targeted at those who need it and more resilient in the long term. Distribution policies are more complicated than taking from the rich and giving to the poor. Education by industry remains a liability. One does not solve poverty problems by weakening the growth power of business, especially at a time when capital flows freely and no one can bind you within national borders. For the Left, it is more important to help those who have the least, than to make a few rich or to move money between the large majority that cannot or should not be defined as needing. The introduction of the maximum price in kindergartens can be an example of the last. The government has made great efforts to improve the quality of an assistive device that can address its problems and help one out of them. This is a better strategy than spreading funds without targeting and so that people can't help but survive. No one is inclined to get stuck in social security traps, which can often become a trap of poverty and a trap of inaction. At the bottom of the social ladder, we find people with drug problems, often in combination with mental problems. Here, the government has really put in a force, with the help of housing, treatment and socialization according to its individual needs and possibilities. I want to remind you that Rusreform II has only worked for two months. A challenge for all employers: we need employers to help people who need training to get back to work, and we need flexibility and cooperation across public, private and civil society. Problems and challenges in social policy did not arise with this government. The opposition has its role as a critic, but sometimes I wanted the criticism to be a little more sober and truthful, especially from a party that has been in government quite recently. The criticism of the Cooperative Government is, in that light, not only unreasonable, but also directly wrong. In addition to debt, a desire for a greater cross-political commitment to the good solutions could be achieved. Easier claims that the solution is to tax the rich harder, or to scatter even more than everyone through general schemes, are no longer valid. More money for everything doesn't provide a viable well-being, either for the poor or for the most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e632	I would like to begin by commending the interpellant for wanting an ideological debate on poverty reduction in Norway. But in the same way as the representative Heieren Hundhammer, I'm surprised because it seems like a wish only an ideological debate, without making any new ideas and suggestions, when a travels such an important theme as this. Throughout the post-war period in Norway, we have had a good development of the welfare society with a main focus on the general arrangements. That's right. The general arrangements will always be at the bottom. But the new poverty is characterised by people who are long-term away from work, who often have drug problems or mental problems. The solution for them is not a further development of the general arrangements, which in fact go mainly to the group that has the most already, i.e. those that have some kind of connection to the world of work. Time and again in this Chamber, when a real priority is really spending large amounts, it is on welfare schemes that go to those who are related to the world of work. It's rarely one has the kind of bet for those who are permanent outside the work force. It is this development that this government has taken on board by focusing on targeted schemes for those who actually fall through. Throughout this period, the centre party has been more concerned with focusing on the part of the balancing message that is about taking something from the rich than giving something to the poor. I fully agree with what Mr Osmundnes of the Christian People's Party pointed out: our main focus must be on the poor. This uses one in the tax debate. But if you look at the tax reliefs that are given, there are tax reliefs that are essentially given to business just to create jobs, and that's something that we know ensures that people get out of poverty, is getting into work. The other tax reliefs are given to most people to give them an opportunity to secure their own future, to secure their own family. It is time for you to leave this debate and get a proper debate on what new arrangements we can get in place to reach the group that the general arrangements will never make.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e646	What made me take the floor was the post of the representative Osmundnes, whom I thought was interesting. He also gave a historical description of what has characterized postwar social policy in this country in many ways. It has been a goal to create a society of small differences, as the representative Osmundnes said, with little difference between King Solomon and Jørgen hatmaker – the egalitarian society as a goal in itself. I wouldn't say that egalitarian society is an end in itself, but I would say that distribution is a necessary tool to ensure social cohesion. I very much agree with Mr Osmundnes that despite the fact that this has marked the post-war social policy in Norway, we must all be willing to admit that someone is falling through. Some fall through this security network. That's obviously a correct description. Therefore, there is no disagreement that, in addition to a broad, solid safety net, measures aimed at catching up individuals need to be taken. But the question is, how do you go about doing that? In my view, the key issue is to finance actions against those who, after all, fall outside, by reducing the measures aimed at preventing people from falling outside? That the Right believes that it should be the social policy approach is no surprise, but the regrettable thing, Osmundnes, is that for the first time in post-war history, the Christian People's Party now secures a majority in order to implement this Right Policy. That's what's new in the situation. It's a system change, and that's what leads us on the wrong path in Norwegian social policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e655	The President will recall that the speaker should address the President and not individual representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e658	I agree with the heart of the last speaker, and I almost want to ask if the Government and the majority of the Stortinge believe that we can neither read nor count. The times we've really spent the large amounts, they've been targeting those who need it least. How in the world is it supposed to say that the discontinued dividend tax, SEK 1.5 billion, goes to the most deserving? The top tax has been reduced by DKK 2.5 billion. It's not for people with high wages, but it's for people who have a job, who have a good income. It is to lubricate thinly beyond to not exactly the most worthy needy. This is what characterises this government's policy. That's where the big money goes, while all the cuts come for those who are out of work. In today’s Business yesterday, they had listed the cuts in cash and redeployment, which this year alone, in 2004, is $2 billion. There's a $2 billion cut to make sure what you're saying is most important – sorry, President, what they say is most important. Then I have to ask if someone believes in these equations. So you say target. Yes, then I have some questions. If you are ill and have poor health, you may be in trouble. What has the government done? Much stricter rules have been laid down on how to get vocational retraining. So you don't get an individual arrangement, no targeting, no tailoring, but less tailoring and more makeup: never more than three years, don't get to cost so much, you're so old, you get nothing. Is it individual tailor-made for the individual? Not at all. It is rule management and focus on money saving, short-term money saving. The second is that last year it was cold. Then we managed to put in place a scheme that allowed poor families of children who also served as little as two minimum pensioners to receive support for light and heat through the housing support. It's focused. It is targeted at the poorest families of children. But what did the Government do? It took away that scheme again. So I say it's a long way to go before I have any kind of confidence that this government understands what it's all about. Lubricating thinly, I also assume that if you want money for the municipal sector, you can have a school that allows the kids who grow up in poor families with children not to have to go with the disability they have, that they should get top-notch education on top of modern equipment, that the community economy also allows you to give them a leisure offer where the wallet doesn't have to go up every time and they need to feel different every day. I understand that the Right and the Government call it to lubricate thinly. SV calls it a good policy that ensures that people do not continue to be poor for generations after generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e671	Thank you for the debate. We've clearly seen in it that here the approaches are very different between the different political parties. I just have to say to this from the government's side that the tendency of the centre party to not want action for those who are struggling the worst, that you know better than that. We're very concerned that we also need a lot of tools against those who fall outside, and who have the worst. But we want to have a general objective related to defrosting, which is not in the government's policy. Then I find that the representatives of the government parties, including the Minister of Social Affairs, have not tried to refute what was the starting point of the interpelation, namely that it is the ‘nearly poorest’ who pay for the measures of those who have the worst. And we know what this is like: those who pay for this are the lonely caregivers, it's those who live with a little social security, it's the unemployed, it's the single residents. The fact that the Government and Government have not tried to refute what was the basis of the interpellation underpins the importance of this debate for us. It's always talking about thinking new, and we're going to keep working on thinking new. But it's important from what goal you choose, to think new. I note that the Christian People's Party is not concerned that the rich are getting richer. The center party believes that if there's something to distribute, some actually have to contribute to that there's something to distribute. Therefore, tax is important. That's why it's not important that there's been 5 billion dollars in tax relief in the last few years to those who already have the most of them. There are many who are struggling in this country who have more income than NOK 85 000. I think we need to introduce a term in Norway that we could call the tyranny of scarcity. The tyranny of scarcity is about that one, for example. is 12 years old and is not allowed to participate in the things that others are allowed to attend. One is not on vacation, one is not with when the crowd goes to the cinema, one does not have the opportunity to set up for birthdays in a way that one would wish one could. What does this lead to? Well, it leads to frustration, it leads to inaction, it leads to a loss of initiative. The conclusion of this 12-year-old is, I don't want to do anything. That's what we have to prevent at any time, the evolution that says those who don't have much, don't want to do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e682	I would also like to thank you for the debate. I believe that the entire interpellation of the representative Haga has been answered, including: We have a different angle of incidence and we want to help people manage themselves, which is the foundation of a human being. Smoothing is important, general welfare systems are important, but there is not enough – once again – to break through. Targeting and individuality are also important. I'm a little worried that Haga's representative is no longer standing by. 9 in the Anti-Sampling Communication, and this is how it tries to cover its views with a United Nations report based on the mid-1980s up to the mid-1990s. It may seem that the representative Åslaug Haga believes that being a recipient of a social security benefit or other public benefit means being poor or what she calls the ‘most poor’. I disagree. There are those who receive public benefits who will be able to cope without the assistance of the government. Others, with better services and assistance, will also be able to be helped into a self - centered life. However, in the case of persons who are unable to work on a temporary or permanent basis, the public welfare arrangements shall provide a basic economic security. These include: the reason why the Government has increased the minimum level of multiple benefits from 1,6 to 1,8 G. And it is clear that we will continue to develop and target the social welfare schemes and services of those who have the lowest incomes. We have to target. So how do we measure it? Yes, we have changed the arrangements, which came into force now on 1 January, and we have received a new temporary zero-free allowance for those people who have the prospect of returning to work. They get a concrete follow-up, a closer individual follow-up, after one to three years. This is about individual planning and targeting. Yes, we have introduced new demands for reintroduction, because we know that faster follow-up will lead to that we are able to help more people get back to work. The longer you stay out of work, the heavier the road gets back. We've also changed the rules for rehabilitation. The period for which you can receive a rehabilitation allowance is limited to two years, because we know that you go on passive benefits for too long, is also a greater chance of getting out of work. We have to help people back to self-driving. We're clearing up the issue of basketball, so from 1 July, it's Aetat that has the overall decision-making authority, so people don't have to fly from the state to the state, with unclear follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e697	Then there's case no. 2 ready-to-be-debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e715	At the beginning of February, Dagsrevyen showed a report about an 11-year-old boy from Namsos who had a serious epileptic diagnosis. The boy had a lot of daily seizures. Of course, this caused enormous strain on the boy himself, but also on his entire family. Worse, the suffering was of such a nature that lack of treatment could cause permanent health damage to the boy. Investigation and treatment were therefore urgent. However, the state special hospital for epilepsy in Sandvika could report on long waiting lists and thus four months waiting time. As a big representative from Namsos, I naturally received a lot of enquiries about the matter. Most people reacted strongly to the fact that such conditions were part of the Norwegian health system. Also here in the house there were many who responded, and through my contacts with the health minister I was assured that the department had asked for an explanation from the hospital concerned. As far as I understand it, the matter for the boy in question has been resolved. Of course I'm happy about that. But the parents of the Namsos boy were the time I talked to them, very concerned that this didn't just have to be considered a special case. They knew several children with epilepsy who had to wait unreasonablely long for necessary treatment. They hoped that their history could contribute to an increased focus on this issue and this whole patient group. In my opinion, it is affordable that parents take the burden of standing up in this way and thus contribute to the attention around important issues, and this is some of the reasons for this interpellation. In my time in the Social Committee, we have been working on the problem of ‘children with severe suffering and a long waiting period for necessary treatment’ primarily in one area, namely child and youth psychiatry. In particular, SV has debated this several times. I think the entire committee is aware that in childhood and youth psychiatry there are long waiting lists and long waiting times. So this is a well-known problem, and although we disagree in some areas on how to meet that challenge, we have a clear strategy to do something about the problem. Psychiatric escalation plan is a conscious effort to strengthen child and youth psychiatry. The offer to children and young people with mental illness is increasing, although the Committee, for example, on our visit to Health Mid-Norway recently received a report that the waiting lists and waiting times are still unacceptable. Many suggest that a future review of the psychiatry plan will need to strengthen efforts towards children and young people, beyond what has been planned so far. But we have little knowledge of the situation in the somatic part of the health care system. I therefore wish, through this interpellation, to contribute to the Stortinget getting a status report in this area as well. Is the situation of children with epilepsy special, or are there several groups of children and adolescents who have an unacceptable long waiting period for the necessary medical treatment? Priority debates are always difficult. Nevertheless, I dare say that the priority debate is particularly difficult in the health sector. When not everyone can have everything at the same time, what suffering must come before others? What mechanisms should we use to regulate patient flow? What is the task of public health versus a private market for healthcare? This is just a little bit of a question, in a long series of these. Public samples have provided reports, and the debate is continuing. Only one thing is certain, namely that there will be more public samples, and that the debate will never end. Nevertheless, I would say that certain aspects of this problem complex are lighter than others. I feel sure that the Norwegian people believe that children with severe suffering will come first in line. Of course, the need for immediate help will go ahead of everything, but when treatment is planned, children should be given priority. In my opinion, this must be an overall guide for Norwegian health policy. I both hope and believe the Minister of Health agrees with me on that. That is why I ask what the Minister of Health will do to ensure that children with severe disorders are given priority in the Norwegian health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e739	Let me begin by expressing the honour of the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, of having asked an important question and raised a debate that is important to be held in this Chamber too, especially because it raises several fundamental questions. I will come back to the specific issue mentioned in the interview, but use a more general approach initially. Over the last two years, waiting times have decreased in Norwegian hospitals, including children. Numbers from the Norwegian Patient Register say that the number of patients under the age of 15 waiting for treatment is reduced by 15 pst. in the last two years, while increasing the number of references. In particular, there has been an increase in mental health protection, with 65 pst, according to figures for the third quarter of 2003. patients more than two years ago. At the same time, waiting time is reduced by 15 pst. Better capacity in childhood and youth psychiatry leads to much more referrals, and we have had an increase of 50 pst. in the course of two years. This is also the reason why waiting times are not reduced any more. Of all children under the age of 15, received in hospital, almost a third are received during the neonatal period. Well a third is received as immediate help. It is the last third that waits for a shorter or longer time for study and treatment. Overall, I believe that the situation is well controlled, but I recognise that we have some challenges. Individual patients are waiting for too long, and statistics have some clear shortcomings. Our patient statistics tell us about the number of referrals, not the number of people. We are also working on a proposal to improve the data base through the development of a unique Norwegian patient registry, as the Stortinget was briefed on in the submission of this year's budget. At the end of the year, 22,500 children were expected to be evaluated and/or treated in our hospital. During the year, about 100 000 children and young people are referred to specialist health services. We don't have numbers that can tell us how many of these have a serious illness. The patient registration distinguishes between patients without and patients with ‘right to necessary health care’, which is the formulation taken from the Patient Rights Act. But the numbers between the regions crack so much that there are obviously very different practices for recording. For patients under 15 years of age, this varies from 40 pst. in one region to nearly 90 pst. in another. The priority provision of the Patient Rights Act states that a patient is entitled to the necessary healthcare from the specialist healthcare service when all of the following three conditions are met: Firstly, the patient is at risk of previous death or not negligible loss of quality of life if the health care is delayed. Secondly, the patient may be expected to benefit from health care. Thirdly, the expected costs are proportionate to the impact of the measure. The provisions are identical for children and adults. However, in the specific assessment, in which lifetime and expected benefits are to be included, it would of course be important that a favourable outcome of treatment can provide the paediatric patient with many good years. Everyone who is referred to the specialist health service has the right to be evaluated within 30 working days. It is directly governed by the Patient Rights Act, and it applies in the same way to children and adults. If you are not satisfied with the assessment, you may ask for a second assessment. The assessment shall consider whether the patient is entitled to the necessary health care. The amendments to the Patient Rights Act adopted by the Stortinget just before Christmas mean that, as is known, for patients with such a right, an individual deadline should be set for the time of treatment. If this deadline is not met, the patient will be entitled to treatment without delay by a private service provider or a service provider outside the State. At the same time, the limitations previously imposed by capacity problems have been removed. I believe that the new provisions of the Patient Rights Act will help to improve patients’ rights regarding access to healthcare. The lack of the exercise of the rights will be made more visible and there are incentives in the scheme, which in turn will contribute to the exercise of that right by the end of the period. Interpellation is based on a specific media essay about a single patient. I have been informed that the patient in question is being taken into consideration during these days. Which treatment is then recommended and implemented is determined on this basis. The special hospital for epilepsy – SSE – doubles its investigation capacity during the current month. I have also been informed that Health Sør has asked the Rikshospitalet, which includes the SSE, to complete the preparations for further development, with a view to the SSE construction process starting immediately over the New Year, in 2005. Health South will assess the division of tasks within this highly specialised field in order to clarify the alternatives available within the region and in the country. The Rikshospital starts a parallel internal project to look at the organisation of the entire neuroarea, i.e. neurosurgery, neurosurgery, and the State Centre for Epilepsy, to assess whether it is possible to coordinate functions, streamline patient pathways and increase the investigation capacity of the most seriously ill. This is done to make even better use of the total resources. The feedback I have received from Health South assures me that within a reasonable period of time the situation of the patient groups concerned will improve. But at the same time, I would like to stress the need for children with serious illness to and must receive an offer within reasonable time limits. What is acceptable waiting time will have to vary, including: depending on the patient’s burden. As elsewhere in medicine, concrete priorities will have to be made for any condition. This means that the body receiving a referral must ensure the necessary information to carry out a sound assessment and then give priority, on the basis of medical criteria and in line with the provisions of the priority regulation. Children’s departments other than the SSE also have waiting time for children with possible or known epilepsy. This varies, from accommodation on the same day to up to three months, depending on the specific situation of the individual child. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight that there are not just problems in this context. A few weeks ago, Dagens Medisin insisted that in the case of childhood cancer, Norway is in the top international strata. This is not least due to Nordic cooperation. As small countries, we need to cooperate, for the benefit of patients. Other aspects of medical development, including: Our vaccination programmes, our low mortality during the infant and our neonatal medicine, we know we're raising international awareness, rightly. The interpellant was involved in mental health. In the Government’s strategy plan for children and young people’s mental health, ‘... together on mental health...’ presented in September 2003, we discuss how the Government will strengthen and further develop efforts for children and the mental health of young people. The plan has a clear health promotion and prevention profile, with a focus on strengthening children and young people’s own resources and ability to master. The plan also points to the specific challenges posed by the intervention apparatus in relation to children at risk or who have already developed psychiatric disorders. The Strategy Plan will therefore help to ensure a more comprehensive service provision tailored to the needs of users and with better coordination between different helpers and services. The plan contains a number of concrete measures to improve the situation of seriously ill children. Let me briefly mention five: personal patient rights information adapted to children and young people’s efforts to prevent suicide-free hospital choices in the field of mental health protection, including for children and young people’s offers to patients with severe eating disorders for a maximum of 10 days waiting time for assessment interviews; We're going to implement new and more quality indicators for hospitals. Here, the requirement for an individual level of child rehabilitation and the measurement of patient satisfaction in the field of mental health protection is of particular importance. The same is the recording of waiting time for the first consultation and the proportion of diagnostically assessed patients in paediatric and juvenile psychiatry. Let me take this opportunity to remind you that regional health businesses have carried out a number of new tasks over the first two years of the hospital reform, and they have also been given new tools. Regional health businesses shall play on the resources throughout the region and think in the long term, including in the configuration of the individual patient. Health undertakings shall use the sum of the means at their disposal to ensure a more holistic approach. Finally, let me mention an area that I believe is of particular importance for children with long-term or chronic illness: child rehabilitation. The Ministry of Health is now preparing a strategy plan for the rehabilitation of children, including the provision of health services to disabled children, to chronically ill children, and to their parents. The main principle is that children with disabilities should as far as possible have a childhood that gives growth and development as other children, and they should learn to master their daily life within the possibilities they have. The proper provision of long-term disabled children requires services from both the community and specialist health services. The childcare service is central to this patient group, which in reality includes all children with disabilities and with the need for multidisciplinary rehabilitation services. In order to improve the provision of disabled children, the Ministry of Health will therefore focus on services that are important in a habilitation process. We don't get to that by focusing on a single term, there is a need for coordination and willingness to cooperate across levels, and there is a need not least for individual plans where all the agencies are involved around the individual patient. This debate is important, because it puts into practice some of the challenges we always face with priority and with difficult choices that result from it. My clear opinion is that children are taken seriously, it is continuous so that children do not wait longer than proper. But at the same time, we have to recognise that we have some clear improvement points, not least where offers are under construction, as in childhood and youth psychiatry. I know that regional health businesses are addressing these challenges. I understand that construction and changes must take some time, but at the same time I can assure you that I share the impatience of interpellant; weaknesses must and must be improved. With the sum of responsibilities, and not least the full range of instruments now added to regional health businesses, we as the overall authorities have also received a tool to enable this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e808	I thank you for your answer. The answer, as I also assumed, shows that the Minister of Health is taking this issue seriously. I would like to add a few brief comments to the answer. Firstly, it is important that the answer shows that there are clear weaknesses in the registration of at least this patient group. It is therefore very different from registration practices, and it is clear that it will be important for a political body such as Stortinget that registration practices are so good that on the basis of facts and not views, necessary priorities can be made. I expect you to work with the registration policy. I also think it is important to point out that it turns out that the parents of this boy in Namsos contributed to focusing on this matter, have already given significant results. It is obvious that there have been major problems with children and young people with epilepsy, and it is clear from the Minister of Health's response that there will now be a doubling of the investigation capacity at the Special Hospital for Epilepsy. That's an eye-catching consequence of what's happened. In addition — after many, many years of work — from the new year a necessary extension in the same hospital will come into place. Of course, I agree with the Minister for Health that health professionals must make the necessary priorities on a daily basis based on the information available and sound assessments. It's everyday life in most areas. However, the question is whether, in addition to these medical professional assessments, there should be some political leadership – it will always be difficult. But I think, at least from my point of view, that it wouldn't be unreasonable if you also had a clear lead in the priority regulation, which was that in the choice between different patient groups it would be natural for children and young people with serious disorders to be given priority over others, for example. adults with similar disorders. I look forward to the debate, and hope that there may be some responses to possible changes to the priority regulation, if it could be an instrument. There are several things I could have commented on, but I see that my time is up. As I said, I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e821	I can confirm, as I was also involved in my main post, that the department has grasped the quality of the patient registration issue. In particular, it is a matter of getting a patient-identified and individual-identified registration, because what we register today is treatments and not information about the patient’s identity related to treatment. It is a matter of different pages, as it is also apparent from the essay in today's edition of the Evening Post, but I believe that we should get such a registration. In the case of the priority regulation, it is the result of two thorough investigations into the so-called Wage Committees. I put a lot of emphasis on the fact that we have priority rules in Norway that are not directly related to age. This has been done in some disciplines in the past, and it is difficult to deal with it. But at the same time, I believe that the priority regulation as it is now designed gives priority to the younger ones. So I believe it must be right to follow developments closely in relation to the recording of waiting times etc. which we have focused on in this debate. I also agree that it is important to focus on it. That focus should be based on the priorities of the authorities and the disciplines. Some of the results I've shown are related to that. But it is also true that the debate that has taken place on this matter has helped to accept it, and I agree with the representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen that we can see.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e828	Of course, I agree with the interpellant that we cannot accept the situation that was revealed in Dagsrevyen on February 2nd, about an epileptic boy who did not get help in time. Unfortunately, there are innumerable similar examples, not least in child and youth psychiatry, where children have to wait too long before investigation and treatment is started. I also find it unacceptable that there are so many variations between the different regions in that way. And worse than that, we have legislation in this country that these days are very topical, which actually prohibits treating children for life-threatening diseases. I find it rather strange that neither the interpellant nor the health minister has so far gone down in the debate to the root cause of the problems we have with waiting time and waiting lists, namely the hospital economy. In this context, I have to remind interpellant Bjarne Håkon Hanssen that he has contributed to a budget that hospitals have available for 2004, which is so incomplete and inadequate that unfortunately we will have to live with quite a number of cases during the year when priority patients will have to wait a long time for treatment. It will apply to both children and adults. And I'm not a stranger to the idea that the interpellant travels, that children must be given special priority, especially in cases where waiting time can contribute to a worse treatment prognosis. I also support the inter-pellant's wish for the Stortinget to be presented, in the context of budgetary procedures, a status of age composition and waiting time within the patient population. I would like to get in touch with the Labour Party and discuss the idea that we should put in the priority regulations a priority for children in different situations, in line with what we have done in relation to cancer care, which is now very good in our country, perhaps some of the best we have in the world. I hope that this case will also lead the Workers' Party during the examination of the revised national budget to improve the functioning of hospitals for the last six months in 2004. And if that happens, this interpellation has really had a good effect, because it's really the economy it's on, we all have to agree on that pretty much.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e843	One of the most prestigious exposures we see in society is adult commitment to the children and the care of the children. This applies both to parents' commitment to their own children and to others' commitment to the same children. It is therefore important that we, as politicians, provide measures to help those children who need help first, also get help first. In different contexts, SV has addressed child and youth psychiatry, where we have seen that today’s situation is such that children often wait twice as long as adults, perhaps up to 100 days from being referred to psychiatric treatment, while adults wait half as long. In both cases, waiting lists are too long, but it makes it clear that until now, a priority has not been achieved where those who need help and should have been treated first, will have been. We also see with the example of epilepsy, cases where children with severe physical disorders, such as epilepsy, do not get the treatment they should have had quickly enough. It is a clear responsibility for all of us as politicians to contribute to a policy that ensures that those who need help first, also get help first. But if we're going to do that, we're totally dependent on being able to create long-term political relationships in this room that create predictability in health policy, and that have long-term objectives. Because if the individual cases are to govern health policy, if we let go of everything else we have in our hands and say that because this case is so special, that's what needs to be given priority, it's just the kids that are being hit. Of course, if we fail to implement the long-term measures to increase epileptic capacity, we will not be able to treat those epileptics who need it. If we can't expand the long-term capacity of the psychiatry that makes children with mental disorders a priority, they won't, of course, be given priority. A policy which requires the Council of State to answer questions within two days in an area where one has time to think about for a week, or plan for months, is precisely a policy that does not allow long-term planning. Therefore, there is every reason to warn against a type of policy to be governed by media postings on TV 2 and the Daily, instead of a long-term, thoughtful policy by a political majority in this matter. Journalists in Dagbladet and TV 2 shall not determine Norway’s health policy. You actually have to do that in the Storting, and you have to do that in terms of propriety for who needs help first, and who has it last.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e852	The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, takes up the position of children and corrects them in the healthcare system. These are very important issues, because children are a group with special health needs. In June 1999, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg passed a law on patients’ rights. This law will ensure health care for the population irrespective of, inter alia: age. The term ‘patient’ is defined in paragraphs 1 to 3, and it also covers minors. Minors will therefore have rights under the general rules of the Patient Rights Act. In addition, there are also statutory few special dishes for children. Once we're on the legal side, maybe the changes that were made in this house in relation to the patient rights laws just before Christmas last year are the most important. These changes gave children the legal right to treatment within an individual deadline set on a medical basis. In such a period, it is also necessary for no one to wait longer for medical assistance than for medical defence. It's important that these dishes are followed up. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that one should give priority to those who need it most through individual temptations. In many cases this will and may apply to children, as we know from the priority regulation that life expectancy and expected benefits are decisive factors in the priority debate. But with such legislation that I have now gone through, there is not always a lack of rules that appear to be the biggest problem, but often also coordination and follow-up of the one legislation. We must not forget that children with severe suffering are more than just an expression for single-husbands – children who are hurt or who wear out in everyday life. Retired, that's often said to be family, is also part of this suffering. Before coming to the specialist service, a system of references, distributions, etc. has been passed. After one comes from the specialist service, one comes back to the primary service and the adjacent service device. We know that families fight a hard fight many places to get the dishes they're entitled to. Then it's not just a fight for individual rights, it's a fight for the rights to be seen in the context of each other. The decision-making process in many situations is necessary for coordination and coordination. A group I'm thinking about in particular is families with children who have impaired their function. The Christian People's Party is busy improving the everyday lives of families with children with disabilities. We therefore need more holistic and coordinated measures for these families, and it is absolutely crucial that families are received by an active public utility. In this debate, let us not forget the things that are going well either. Targeted wait time in the specialist services produces results. The Council of State has discussed this earlier in the debate. Waiting time has been greatly reduced in the last year. Activities in the field of mental health protection have increased sharply. Three hundred more children and young people were referred to the specialist services in 2003 than in 2002. There were well over 3,000 more treatment provision. We are therefore on the right track. Taking good care of children is important for the Christian People's Party, and we will follow this development carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e867	It's an important area we're dealing with now, based on the initiative that the interpellant has taken. But I very much agree with the representative, Ballo, that individual cases do not have to control our priorities so that we don't let go of everything else in our hands and just run on short-term solutions. Long-term priorities are important in all social policies, including health policy. Then, as the representative Alvheim also mentioned, the resource base is very important, a main reason, in terms of whether the quality and capacity are good enough, and in terms of reducing the waiting time and getting shorter waiting lists. The rapid treatment of children is important. It's an emotional question. But it's also a medical question in my opinion, not least in psychiatry and mental health, because the development of the disease image there is very important to limit. The development and deterioration of mental health in children and young people is so worrying that it needs to be taken particularly seriously. So to epilepsy and the relationship that's the cause of this interpellation: I have to make quite critical comments about what's happened in the epilepsy field. In the autumn of 2002, in the context of the budgetary procedure, the Central Party proposed a budget of 10 million. kr, in order to start the development of the country’s special disease hospital for epilepsy. A majority on the Stortinget supported the Centerpartiet, at least verbally, and asked that this matter be given priority. It can be seen by the Budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2002-2003. In my opinion, this was not taken seriously enough by the Government and by the Health Region of South, and has not been properly followed up. It was pointed out again during the budgetary procedure now, but I actually thought that this was more on the rails than it turned out to be when this TV proposal came on 2 February. I have to say that it is critical that no more has been done for this group. The Social Committee has previously been with this institution and has seen the bad conditions, and it was based on the knowledge and commitment that were out there, among other things. in the user group, that we took this seriously and tried to advance it in 2002. It is clear that the resource base must be better than the majority currently provided – that is the general basis – and then you have to be willing to take the majority signals on the Storing and follow them up. Then it's about proper and good priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e878	The matter that the interpellant raises is an important matter, and, which revealed especially in this area, there are some aspects in which there is an absolute need to rectify. I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a good and thorough presentation. I noticed in particular that the Special Hospital for epilepsy doubled its investigation capacity this month, and that the increased capacity will ensure rapid investigation and treatment. The example of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is not unique – as several others have been involved. I think most of us have received enquiries from parents in the same situation. However, this debate – which is also the subject of the interpellant – also raises several other important issues. It shows how incomplete today's waiting list registration and patient statistics are. Fortunately, there are clear improvements on the way here that allow us to get a better data base to control the Norwegian health system and make the right decisions. It's very hard to do it if the information you have, and that's available, is not good enough. But it is also a priority debate. It also shows the interpellanate in its interpellation. The Wage and Wage Committee II has in many ways rejected age as a separate criterion in relation to priority, but with the criteria contained in their recommendations and contained in the priority regulation, it is quite clear that children with serious illness will be prioritised on the basis of the general criteria. Someone has suggested that we have a special rule that prioritises children. In my opinion, it will require a much more thorough discussion. For a priority debate where a mere debate on those to be given priority is an incomplete priority debate. Having a priority debate without having a discussion about who should be given priority is very difficult. I think that when a person turns that problem on his head and says that a priority of children means that one, for example. priority should be given to the elderly, one sees that using age as an independent criterion may not be the right way into a priority debate. I believe that the priority regulation, with the three guidelines in place, will give leadership to the group on which everyone is clearly agreed, should be given priority and will be a priority in the health sector, and this will be strengthened, inter alia. through the Patient Rights Act, with the individual rights that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e891	Let me start by thanking you for the debate, which well reveals what I expected, that there is a broad welcome here in the Chamber that we are all concerned that children and young people with serious illnesses should be given priority in Norwegian health care. I will finally come back to the road further, but let me first comment at least one of the posts. The representative, Mr Ballo, raises the question of whether it is the journalists on TV2 and the Daily newspaper who direct the debate on health policy or whether health policy is defined here in the United Kingdom. I am very concerned that we need to have a long-term perspective in Norwegian health policy. However, long-term thinking in Norwegian health policy must not be at odds with the fact that we are also willing to address individual patients, single stories, to see in a way whether the state of health policy is in line with the leadership of health policy. I have to say that under the representative of Ballos, I got a feeling of a sort of statement in the direction of: ‘Don’t come here and confuse me with the consequences of my own vote in the Stortinget.’ So it's like when you're dealing with e.g. adopting a new Biotechnology Act, it has implications for the treatment that individual patients receive in the Norwegian community. And then you may have to stand for what you have voted for, but it must also be allowed to say that the votes you have been voting on actually have consequences for individuals. It may not be wrong or unreasonable to use the individual, the individual patient, as an example of the consequences of long-term health policy decisions. In my opinion, there is no reason to be offended. So I just want to end by saying that the most concrete thing we might have been discussing in the debate is the question of whether the priority regulation is doing right when it chooses not to have age as a criterion for the priority. And I listen to the statements made by the Minister of Health, and also by the representative of Höie, who warns against it. But I would like to say very much to the representative, Mr Höie, that there may be a need for a thorough debate on these issues, so that today’s debate does not just hit the air – and then it goes for a while, and we get new examples of children with severe suffering who get unreasonable waiting time, and then we’re back at it with similar debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e901	First, the question of whether it is critical or not to discuss health policy on the basis of examples. I believe that it is not critical neither to discuss from examples nor to use examples, rather to deal with the concrete consequences of an adopted policy. What Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is doing in this interpellation is not bringing the single thing that was the starting point for the media storage, into the staging room, but using it as a starting point for addressing a general problem. I think that's something quite different than taking into the staging room the treatment of single patients like that. There are two different things, and I think that's a point that we can very much agree on. A key question has been whether to change the priority regulation and link a criterion such as age directly to the priorities. I have claimed earlier in the debate that I believe the priority rule as it is, captures the special situation and vulnerability of children. It will also be the case that children who are ill and where waiting time can give a worse forecast will be caught by the priority regulation. However, I think that the issue is interesting, and I can imagine following up the debate by asking the National Health Council to discuss the question raised by the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. I think the question deserves that. Let me say that in the case of the specific extension case, it is also my opinion that it has taken longer than desirable. However, there are major challenges for the owner in the field of development and it has been necessary to give strict priority to the frameworks provided by the Stortinget. I'm not going into a new round of the budget debate that Stortinget had before Christmas, but I'm going to give the representative Alvheim the right to know that there's a connection between what you're getting, and what you're actually putting into resources. Having said that, I am pleased that Health Sør now intends to initiate this construction project right over New Year's. This means that the necessary rounds of tenders, preparations and planning processes must be completed so that it is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e914	We have finished dealing with case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-04.ana.ud1567e925	There is no record.
