ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e28	2004 was a year of great change in Europe. EU enlargement and NATO enlargement have created new platforms for European cooperation, created new forms of cooperation for Norway and created new challenges in our neighbourhood. Both extensions are part of the positive trends that contribute to building cooperation between nations on economic development in human relations and ensure that the peace and freedom that we have experienced in our part of the world will also spread to larger parts of our neighbourhoods in the years to come. At the same time, it has brought challenges. Terrorism also on European soil has shown that we are facing major security problems, that we are facing a greater need for interaction and coordination with our neighbouring countries and are faced with the need to take these issues more seriously and to make closer joint cooperation in the years to come. I have no doubt that we would have had a lot to pick up on a closer cooperation with our neighbouring countries in these areas. Nor am I in doubt that we should cooperate more closely to find good common solutions in a world that is thus more and more interconnected both in terms of opportunities and challenges, and not least in terms of the question of getting a more peaceful world. It would be important if Norwegian debate of the throne and Norwegian policy occasionally went beyond the short-sighted issues and looked at new challenges, not only challenges in the third world and far away, but also challenges in our neighbouring countries, challenges that will eventually also spread to Norway. Looking at the pictures of how the world is changing at the moment, I think it is strange that we are so little focused on the major welfare changes that are taking place in a few European countries, which every day result in demonstrations being carried out, and on the question of the security of the European welfare society and the rootstock, whether it is on the way to weakening. Both Italy, France and Germany are currently experiencing major adaptations to large welfare systems. We're in Norway in a truly lucky situation that doesn't seem to have to do it as dramatic and as drastic in as short a time as these countries. But it's an indication of what we ourselves can experience if we don't now start taking the small steps to achieve a better balance between our business policy and our welfare policy, a balance between our ability to drive value creation and our desire to maintain welfare systems and well-being in the future. In the long-term perspective of Norway, it must be that in the years to come, we have to put in the high seat to make Norwegian businesses competitive in an increasingly globalised world. Without it, the well-being that this hall would like to distribute will collapse. So we need values that are created before we can distribute them. In Norway, over 600,000 people in pre-employment experience social benefits and social security as their main income. It is primarily sad for the individual who is not able to put his or her abilities into practice and gets to experience standing on his or her own legs. But it is also a challenge for the well-being of all of us. Therefore, this government pursues a policy to target welfare systems and to contribute to the re-establishment of the working line. If we are to be able to ensure the welfare of the future, we are dependent on getting more people to work, and it must be attractive to work longer. We are implementing reforms in the public sector to achieve this, and I hope no shadows escape the challenges when the Government presents its communication on the pension reform. Our stable and tight economic policies have helped to reduce interest rates by 5 pst. This has given families with high loans tens of thousands of dollars more in the wallet than when Jens Stoltenberg was Prime Minister and the interest rate was 7 p.m. In recent years, the family economy has improved dramatically in a positive direction. Two years ago, the headlines in Norway were marked by words such as pessimism and flagging. because the exchange rate caused Norwegian companies to get less when selling their products abroad. This summer and autumn, newspaper headlines have been marked by words such as optimism and upliftment. The other day, we were able to read surveys showing that there were 18 000 new businesses established in Norway this year. It's high-ranking. Employers report that they will employ more people beyond the fall. Fresh forecasts from the Ministry of Local Affairs show that we are going to build approx. 26 000 new dwellings this year. It's been a long time since we've seen the husband. So there is optimism in Norway. We should not prevent this optimism from continuing, by creating uncertainty about the future economic policy and about the creation of value through higher taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e43	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e46	In a few days' time, the State Council of Solberg will present the financial framework for the municipal sector for the next year. 121 municipalities are under state control, more than ever. The government has previously announced that next year the municipal sector will not even get enough money to pay for the changes in the population. An entire municipal government group has resigned from the Christian People's Party. The rapporteur in Aremark says that the situation in the municipal sector has never been as bad as in the last three years, and the rapporteur in Sandefjord says: ‘I simply expect more money to be put on the table of the municipalities, something else will be a mockery of local democracy.’ Does this make any impression at all on the Solberg Council? Or is it so difficult to finance the government's tax commitments by cutting the department's own budgets that it will be easier to push the rapporteurs and the municipal politicians to tell the voters that they are cutting down on school provision and care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e58	Thus, in 2004, even with an estimated tax failure, Norwegian municipalities will record growth in the municipal economy, both in the total economy and in free income. This means that there are 4 to 4.5 billion more to go with in free incomes in 2004 than in 2003, and that is actually record-breaking. So there has never been any government or any expansion that has granted more money over the year than what has been done in 2004. That's why I think it's a little amazing that the same lines of urban economy come every year, despite the fact that we get better appropriations, that growth is increasing. I don't underestimate that it's difficult in the municipal sector, and that we have changes that are also difficult to make, but it's actually that sometimes we have to innovate that this year we have a formidable growth, a growth that no one has ever seen before within the free incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e65	I fully agree with the Council of State that Norway will sooner or later face the major challenges our neighbouring countries face today. It can be in many areas – industrial development, asylum policy, welfare policy and what is going on in the future. My questions in relation to what the Council of State said in its statement: Does this mean that the Government will focus to a greater extent on picking up labour in the EEA area? Or does the Government continue to insist that Norway needs to focus on picking up unskilled labour, preferably outside the EEA territory? And when the Council of State is so committed to cooperating with the EU, she will also follow up with the Government on the EU Minister of Foreign Affairs in relation to building asylum-seekers, among others. North Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e72	To ensure that the Norwegian welfare community can be financed in the years to come, it is absolutely essential that we have to be more involved in Norway. The government has the strategy that we work in all sorts of ways that can get more people to work on, for example. by modernising the public sector so that we spend less money on administration and more money on services. Old-age care is the public sector that in the future is most in demand for labour. It is a pension reform, which is also mentioned in the census, that we have a strategy for more people to go further into work. So we have a strategy that we probably also need to pick up more people, both from EEA countries and outside EEA countries, to work in Norway. Labour immigration is just one part of the strategy for getting more people to work so that we can finance our welfare society in the future. But it's not that, no matter how much change we make in our society, we're going to be able – especially in the short term – to cover up all of this with the reserves that exist. We have to remember one thing: Norwegian society has the highest professional activity of all European societies, and we have already consumed more of our reserves. Then we also have to expect a little more labour immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e81	First, to the Mayor's creative account of income in the municipal sector. It is assumed that the municipal sector has lost several billions of tax revenue, and so it is theoretically assumed that they have increased, as the government says. But you can't pay your liabilities with lost income from the years in advance. Norwegian jobs are threatened by what Kåre Willoch calls predatory capitalism. And what is this government's answer to that? Well, it's laying down, trying to make it as layered as possible and then attacking the trade movement on all fronts. So it's the trade union movement that's civilized the Norwegian community, which has made the distribution here good, and that you've got a school system that has made us pretty much able to use all the resources in this country. I want to ask the Minister of State if she does not see that it has been a good strategy for Norway to have an active trade union movement, and if she does not believe that this is also a strategy for freedom to spread to others other than us, as she has opened up her posts with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e90	Norway has had a trade movement that has contributed positively to economic development in Norway in a number of areas. I don't think I'm going to give that credit to Norwegian school policy. I think it's drawing it far. I actually think I'll give some teachers who have been active in the Left and other parties before, and my own party, more of the credit for a good school policy than exactly the trade union movement. At the same time, I think you have to be aware that there is a shift in Norwegian trade movement where those who are opposed to conversion have become more dominant in most parts of the trade movement. Those who have been involved in the transition to maintain the competitiveness of Norwegian business appear to have less and less voice, while negative attitudes in the trade union movement are becoming more and more dominant. That's what I think is a challenge, not least in a society that's going to have to require more change in the years to come, demanding other forms of work. Not least the public sector has to work in other ways. If the trade union movement is involved, I still think they are a positive contribution. So if they say no to that, they want to fragment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e97	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e100	The main objective of a good welfare society must be to focus on what I think is our most important resource, our children, and that they get the rights they are entitled to under the Children's Convention. Norway is the country in the world with the best assumptions and economic ability to facilitate good growth conditions. I think the government is doing too little, and that Norway is breaking the Children's Convention. It is a serious development in our society that more children need action from child protection, care and psychiatry. There has been a dramatic increase in granted child protection measures in recent years. The head of child protection in Fredrikstad tells Fredrikstad Blad that child protection work is linked to the effects of unemployment, drug use and social conditions. She goes on to say that they work in a local government with the pressured economy, the list for getting help from them is put relatively high. The list should have been lowered. It is serious when the signals from child protection are that the economy controls the measures, not the need. These are the signals we get from several municipalities. The queues for children in need of psychiatric treatment are increasing, and children are waiting longer than adults. This is not acceptable and is a violation of the Children's Convention, which clearly states that children are entitled to treatment. The hungering of the municipalities by the government means that it is the economy and not the need to control the response to our most vulnerable children. Preventive action against children and young people and organised treatment is the most important thing we can do. It's also a good social economy. Kindergarten reform is an important welfare reform. The maximum price and full child care coverage were the background to the proposal of the Progress Party and SV, which led to the kindergarten agreement. It's only when the maximum price step 2 is in place that we want to know what the need for kindergarten places in Norway is. It is the price that determines for many whether they have the opportunity to use a nursery place. State Councillor Laila Davøy has raised doubts as to whether she will carry out the kindergarten reform with maximum price step 2 in the state budget presented on Wednesday. The council knows just as well as SV that she does not want to know the need for kindergarten places until the maximum price step 2 is in place. We know that from experience in Sweden. All children shall have the right to a nursery place. It is therefore necessary to increase the rate of expansion. The kindergarten is a good care offer, a good common arena and a good educational offer. Kindergarten also provides vulnerable children with the necessary additional care. Kindergarten is a good venue for linguistic and cultural integration of children with a multicultural background. Development of languages and a common platform through kindergartens prior to schooling are important. Therefore, free core time in kindergarten for all children will be an important and targeted offer and next step towards the goal of SV, which is free childcare facilities for all children. Cash support led to a halt in the development of kindergartens and has led to a negative trend in equality between mothers of young children and mothers of young children. The cash support is not targeted and should be phased out. A recent study supports what SV has said all along, that the cash support has not led to parents significantly more together with their children. We know from more recent studies that parents would rather have kindergarten than cash support. 100 pst. of the children in a metropolitan area of Oslo now want kindergarten. It is embarrassing that Sweden managed to implement the maximum price much more painlessly than we do, when we know that we have an economic basis that is completely different to implement this kindergarten agreement. I also visited a Danish kindergarten this summer, which had a price of 1,350 kroner, including food. Now we have to get the kindergarten reform, which is behind this whole big one, in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e116	This debate illustrates that many are concerned with preserving and developing well-being. It's an engagement I share. In fact, one of Norway’s most pressing questions is: How are we going to be able to maintain and further develop well-being? Values must be created before they can be shared. On the one hand, Norway has the best starting point: ‘Small’ Norway has the world’s 23rd largest economy. For the third consecutive year, Norway is designated on the UN Human Development Index as the world’s best country to live in. On the other hand, we are also facing major challenges. Petroleum deposits are not a renewable resource. The well-being of tomorrow must be ensured through innovation. A more globalized world confronts us with both challenges and opportunities. I'm asked how I view globalisation. Then I tend to say, how do you view gravity? International competition is not something we can choose from, but it is something we can seize offensively, so that we can go further into the future. A high-cost country such as Norway can no longer compete only on price. The new reality assumes that we're working differently and that we're working smarter. We can sell more expensive if what we sell is better than the alternatives – because we take advantage of a knowledge that no one else has. Therefore, we need to take advantage of Norway’s advantages and move from being a supplier of raw materials to becoming a knowledge nation. We have opportunities: high level of education and relatively reasonable knowledge workers. Basically, we also have a very good range of technologies. 90 pst. of whom, under 40 years of age in Norway, have access to the Internet. We have to take advantage of this kind of advantage. We have to be able to build more knowledge, development and design into our products. The question is, how can we best help governments to achieve the goal of becoming one of the world's leading knowledge nations and one of the world's most innovative economies? We have to do that through knowledge, not least in real science at school, and by developing a culture of entrepreneurship. We need to do it through quality, quantity and relevance in research – we are now spending SEK 2.8 billion more on research than when the Co-operation Government joined – and we need to do so by facilitating more innovation in business through closer interactions between research and business. We must not just create knowledge out of heads, we must also create crowns out of knowledge. We have good conditions to increase innovation and value creation and preserve and develop well-being. But little use if we don't have the floor planks fixed in the economy. Over the last three years, the Government has prioritised a responsible fiscal policy and a moderate wage growth to improve the competitiveness of Norwegian business. Norwegian competitiveness has improved through a sharp decline in interest rates, a krone price that gives companies higher income from the products they sell, and tax reliefs of DKK 19 billion, mostly to business. I must also say that when we discuss here how to keep jobs in Norway, we must be aware that we must also have competitive framework conditions. It's not like Norwegian business can put ten meters behind the others when we're going to jump the 60 meters. In this way, taxes and taxes, knowledge, research efforts and efforts to reduce transport costs in Norway are crucial. With this government, we've gotten closer to starting on the same starting line as the other nations. And I have noticed that the opposition today has announced that they have not wanted the tax and tax reliefs and the changes we have made by the Government to make Norway more competitive. It is also true that security also requires change. The absence of change is not a good solution. Without any change, it's confusing, and without any change, we're going to be out of competition. Security is to change to preserve. We have to change the way we produce, in order to preserve and further develop well-being. The well-being of tomorrow must be ensured through innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e144	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e147	The working party is busy creating and distributing. Value creation is important. And we've lost too many industrial jobs in recent years. The former Minister of Industry said he couldn't do anything, because his toolbox was empty. The Labour Party has helped fill in the toolbox for the Minister of Industry, the budget last year and the revision this year. It is important not to cut research and development, it is important not to cut research and development contracts, as this government did. Tax haven't been a mantra, but there's got to be other things than tax havens. I want to know how the Council of State will take care of the workplaces and the competences such as: is at our yard, the competence that you can acquire, for example: building gas ferries in Norway, by using research and development contracts, creates competence in Norway to export.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e156	Updated figures for this year show that the decline in the number of industrial workplaces is stopping. This is the result of the fact that over several years we have been conducting a responsible economic policy, we have reduced interest rates to a historically low level, and we have also contributed through the Kroner price to Norwegian companies now get 12 pst. more for what they sell, also Norwegian shipyards. But I agree with the representative of Frøiland that what needs to be done is research and development. The government has also done that, by increasing the research budget by 2.8 billion kroner over the three years we have been sitting. It is also the case that we need to look at the whole educational chain as a whole and strengthen the quality of initial training. It is also very important. It is also true that if Norwegian businesses are faced with taxes and taxes that are much higher than in the countries with which we compete, they must be extra good at compensating for this. I believe that we can afford to also make Norwegian business more competitive in this area, and we have contributed to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e165	The Council of State said we should invest more in research and development. Then I found it strange that the government did not benefit from the need to build gas ferries to make it a gas development project and thus develop the competence of Norway, by the Norwegian authorities having obtained these contracts. It had one more possibility. By using EEA legislation, we could indicate this for Norwegian yards and competition between them. Because it's a fact that we've lost 17 000 jobs since last year, more than fifty per. 24 hours. Gabrielsen said he didn't have any tools in the toolbox, but now the government has boasted that he actually got some tools. I think we're forced to take some action. We can't just sunbathe in the glory of being so competent. It's not many years before these countries that we compete with, take us back. What?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e172	A hundred years ago, Norway was perhaps Europe’s poorest country. Today we are probably the richest. We've actually done a lot in this country. However, in terms of competitiveness and competitiveness, it turns out that in recent months we have also experienced an upturn in the shipping industry. The yards are doing well because Norwegian shipyards are good and world leaders in terms of putting technology together. The government has already announced that we are now also reintroducing the building loan guarantees, which is an important handshake to these yards. Several are in the process of success. In the case of so-called gas ferries, on which the representative of Frøiland was also involved, an invitation to tender was launched at the beginning of this year to operate passenger chartering with gas ferries over two specific sections. Various companies have submitted tenders in relation to this. It is entirely free to apply for IFU/OFU funds in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e179	One of the major problems in Norwegian policy is the lack of predictability and the fact that we operate and change course — not once a year at the state budget, but to some extent twice a year. One of the organisations that has been concerned with that instability is Innovation Norway. I had the pleasure of being a case rapporteur when we worked with the new tool. Then we imagined that Innovation Norway would be a powerful tool for Norwegian business, where we both gathered a number of actors in a common organisation and were to get a powerful body out in the regional offices, where both the Norwegian Export Council, former SND, the Norwegian Tourist Council and the State Inventors' Guidance Office would participate together. But what we experience after a short time is that you get changing conditions, and most of the time in the organization agrees to discuss how to step down and cut down, how to get through the powerful cuts. Will the Council of State ensure that Innovation Norway gets better framework conditions in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e186	Predictability of those investing in Norway and those engaged in value creation is crucial. If, in addition, predictability can rely on improved framework conditions and improved situation, as we have contributed through tax relief of 19 billion and by focusing more on research and education and also on reducing transport costs in recent years, it is even better. Many other countries also reduce the costs facing business. This government has contributed, in addition to the fact that the interest has fallen and the crown has got a more correct rental. It is quite right for the representative Ryan to point out that, in addition to the instruments now mentioned, the Government and Stortinget have a number of direct actions and instruments, including: through SIVA and Innovation Norway. The reform of Innovation Norway is correct. Providing local ideas about global opportunities is important to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e193	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e196	It's through work that we create values, both for the individual and for the community. It is therefore serious that unemployment is falling at a much higher level than when the Government joined. We need a more offensive policy to create new business – through targeted, entrepreneurial research and better organisation through Innovation Norway. Then it doesn't seem to me that the Minister of Industry's predecessor told me that the toolbox was empty. We need a more offensive labour market policy that ensures work, action or education for young people and for the long-term unemployed, as the Labour Party has proposed. In our alternative budget for this year, the Workers' Party proposed 12,000 more action places than the Government, places that can give unemployed people a bridge back to work. We need an inclusive labour market. Over 300000 people are unretired. We have to facilitate so that more people can stand longer in the workplace and use the working capacity they have. But the Government and the Advance Party will increase the overtime pressure and the uncertainty of the labour market. It seems exclusive, not inclusive. The treatment of the new labour law will determine how Norwegian work life is to be developed. Increased use of temporary employment will mean increased uncertainty about the working situation: if you have income next month, if you can get a mortgage when you do not have a fixed income, if you are entitled to a birth grant, etc. This gives a tougher labour market. It's the Workers' Party against it. We need a policy for industrial development in all parts of the country. We have to take advantage of the advantages that exist in the different regions. Then we must also use district policy instruments, not weaken them as the Government has done, among other things. through the cutting of Innovation Norway. As politicians, we are faced with a choice: whether we want to expand the school offer, the elderly service and the health care system, as the Labour Party wants, or whether we want to distribute the money in tax laws, as the Government has chosen. It's an active choice. The government could have chosen differently. The government could have chosen to strengthen the local economy and to strengthen the provision of children and parents. I recorded that the municipal minister said that the increase in the municipal economy in 2004 had not been seen. Governments have obviously forgotten that in 2001 there was an increase in the amount of DKK 5 billion and in the free revenues of DKK 2 billion. It is true that an increase in the budget agreement in the Storting was achieved as a result of the Labour Party's participation in the conciliation, of NOK 2–2.5 billion more than what the Government had proposed in its draft budget. So it's true that transfers to the local government sector increased. However, the growth in 2004 cannot be seen in isolation either. At the end of last year, there was a accumulated deficit in the municipal sector of NOK 13,1 billion. 121 municipalities are under State control. Then you can't just look at the evolution in a single year. Then you have to look at what is the state of the local government sector. That's why the Workers' Party said in the treatment of the municipal bill in ours that there was a need for NOK 3 to 4 billion more to the municipal sector in 2005 than the government announced, and that there was a need for a plan to create the local government economy. It is also appropriate to point out that it was not the Labour Party's politicians I quoted in the reply to the Council of State of Solberg. It is not the case that the rapporteur in Sandefjord is a disguised worker party. However, the rapporteur in Sandefjord says that he expects more money to be put on the table. And then he says that "something else will be a mockery of local democracy". And it is not that the rapporteur in Aremark has become a disguised worker when he says that the situation in the municipal sector has never been as bad as in the last three years. Over the last few weeks, we have heard numerous opinions from the rapporteurs of the very government parties on the situation in the municipal sector. Nevertheless, the Government continues its restraints, even after an entire municipal government group in the Christian People's Party has actually chosen to resign. The notified municipal scheme for the next year does not even involve enough to cover the additional costs arising from changes in the population. The Workers' Party makes a different choice than the Government. We want to develop a better school. We want to strengthen care for the elderly. We want to expand the health system. Therefore, we choose to strengthen the economy of the local government sector rather than provide new tax incentives. It's a value choice. It surprises me that the Christian People's Party and the Left choose differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e217	The human race has come a long way. One can travel the earth at zero point zero. One can sit at home behind the PC and communicate with people all over the world. One can get his genes and his legacy mapped. One can soon clone itself. Yet, the human race has come so short. We're about to destroy this blue bead that the earth is in outer space. Thousands of children die every day because of lack of food, even if it is on our table. 15,000 children in their mother's stomach will never see the sun because we don't prioritize life. Violence and crime make the streets unsafe. 250,000 Norwegian children settle for Saturday, when mother and father rush and become unpredictable. The list could be extended in both directions. So there's a lot that needs to be changed in Norway. The Trontals are asking for such changes. There is, however, a lot more to change in the world. There are some issues that are bigger and more comprehensive than others. One focuses a little on the survival debates. Mr Steen actually called for such a debate many years ago. Such a debate has not been less important over the years. We can't do without taking action to see that solst, sickness and war demean millions in the third world. Therefore, the Government focuses on Norway's doing its own thing. We live in a world that is characterized by great mobility and small distances. Illumination becomes more visible than before. These possibilities are never more than 24 hours away. Such an imbalance cannot persist when everyone knows about him. The fight against poverty must be strengthened in the name of love and justice and for the sake of the next generation. Terror makes the world unsafe. Now Norway is named by Al Qaida as one of nine countries designated as targets of terrorism. Is that the reason for our foreign policy? Is that our oil wealth? Is that our wealth? Is that our freedom? Or is it our statements? I believe that such questions are premature and falsified. Terrorism is not limited to the United States, Spain, Russia and Israel. Terrorist attempts have been averted all over the place. More than 150 terrorist acts shall be detected and stopped only in Europe after 11 September. We don't have to be blue-eyed and naive. This is about power and rulership. The previous issue of Newsweek says that we are getting fewer and fewer in the world. In the east and west, we're less fast. What is called the demographic istic age brings with it an older wave that the world never has to deal with before. We said no to life. And without children there will be no care, without children no productivity or pension, without children no property value once. We can see that in District Norway. There's one in Leipzig, where they now have 50,000 apartments to keep up their housing values. Things actually stick together. A good family policy is needed for sustainable development, for care for the elderly and for pensions. Everybody understands that we can't escape planet Tellus. But the survival debate also includes the fight against trafficking and bestial trafficking in women and children, as well as the fight against violence and unsafe streets. I believe that the basis for a democracy is a common set of norms and values that each citizen knows is bound by. It also says Alexis de Tokveville in his great work about the state. The alternative to a value state is a police state, he says. Therefore, we need norms against the growing empire. The Christian People's Party will point out that the ten bodas and the nest of love are such norms that help us get a safer society. Therefore, they must be passed on to new generations. We have a lot of challenges. But Norway also has the advantage over most. Norway is the world's best country to live in. The government is making every effort to play each other even better in this country. It does so by giving priority to the family, a better school, municipal freedom of action, and not least to the freedom and opportunity of individuals to contribute to the community through the voluntary sector. The Christian People's Party is overconfident that the good life is created where people together form networks, associations, organizations and trust societies that build the community, all of which are included. The government's proposal for tax-free leverage is a success that stimulates involvement with almost, for the community, for the community, for the community and for the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e241	It's always interesting to hear when the census is read out, what kind of focus the government wants on its job, and what kind of focus and intentions it has in the future. The fact that the challenges are in line is probably this summer too, not least from a criminal point of view, to use such an introduction. I think the most important thing to do in the future is to have an overall focus on fighting crime. In a few days we'll have a government budget, with a frame and some signals of what the government wants to do. So the Storting is going to make its assessment of the same relationships, and make their recordings. I believe, however, that our main challenge today is that we are simply spending too little money on total control and that we have too simple an approach to the problem. Some researchers suggest that crime in Norway costs between 100 and 130 billion dollars a year. It is estimated that the framework of the justice budget is a tenth, approx. DKr 13 billion. In any case, it is my opinion that strengthening the fight against crime will be far-reaching self-financing. If we can bring down the total cost of crime by strengthening those who work to combat it, it will benefit society. It's going to be a total account that will go into plus. If you can use x the number of millions to strengthen the police and other control units that bring down the black economy, bring down the crime and remove the threats and misery that people who are exposed to crime are exposed to, we'll all benefit from it. At least I want to help us change the focus. We can't just focus on heads and ears, we need to focus on the consequences by not taking the big ones. I believe that police reform is such an example. The intention is good, but when the Storting does not have the ability to follow it up, then there is a difference between what was the intent of the Storing and what is a reality. I'm sorry. The consequence is that ordinary people out there get less trust in the police. It's a paradox, but now the police are about to end up on the trust scale at the level of the big business, and I don't know if that's fair. It's for thought, and we should take it inwards. I look forward with excitement to the budget presented on Wednesday. I also hope that this time the government has shown its power of action, and not only does it push the bill on ordinary people through an increase in the legal fee. I think that would be defensive and unacceptable. Another challenge we have is the housing queues. Although the cows have fallen, among other things: Through creative action from the Government, together with the Workers' Party, where they were given the highest penalty bonus, we have a challenge there. And when we see in these days the argument in Avinor about the use of the smoke or not the use of the smoke, and about too much capacity in relation to the need, at least my advice is that we should more closely follow up the decision from the autumn of 2001, where we said that private people could build, and then rent out to the criminal services. So it's going to be private property companies that have problems the day that government no longer needs this. Then we'll get rid of the arguments we have now, cf. Avinor, and cf. what the Defense does superfluously. Another thing: we see that the budget framework does not extend. We see that Oslo's chief of police is out saying that Oslo's population is now suffering from the serious crime in Oslo. So you can't afford to prioritize everyday crime. If it's the case that Storting's appropriations are primarily going to fight the worst boys in the class, what are we going to do with the rest? Is it okay to break into a house, and is it okay to break into a cabin? Is it okay with car theft and other use theft? Do we want this, and is that how we want it? For my part, the answer is clearly no. We're not going to be like this. We have to fight everyday crime. It's a fact, whether you like it or not, that you can't take from the people, that leads to insecurity. Although this doesn't have to be real, it's something we have to relate to. Another moment, and what happens next, is that there will be a very large increase in the jobs of the guard companies. So we get a class distinction with those who can afford to buy security by paying for it, and those who have to trust the Norwegian police and their budget frameworks. I don't think the Storting has a wish for that. I don't think we have a desire to be able to buy security. Safety must be at the bottom, and that is, among other things, the intention of the Police Act. Here, with all due respect, I believe that the Storting is far on the way to failing its purpose. We have a job to do. Others have been concerned with terrorism. It is worrying to see again that we are on the list and are mentioned in line with other countries. But I also assume here that close and close cooperation between the police and the defence is handling this in a good and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e260	A good society to live in can be measured by the security of people and the confidence that they are protected from assault and crime. Trust in the police, and that the police can help when something happens, is absolutely vital. Fortunately, a nationwide survey from the summer shows that 60 pst. the public is well or very satisfied with the police’s handling of everyday crime, and that a total of 77 pst. is well or very satisfied with police handling more serious crime. But this is a trust the police have to earn every day. We cannot deprioritise the crime that affects most people because more sophisticated and international crime steals large resources. We have to give the police enough personnel and money so that they can do their job both by stopping professional criminal gangs and by helping people who are exposed to burglaries and thefts. The police reform is to be evaluated for next year, but we already know that further adjustments need to be made. We have to make sure to have a police officer who has the money to move out in the evening and on weekends. The Labour Party believes that if we are to achieve the preconditions of the police reform for more effective crime prevention and a more service-oriented and public-oriented police force, we must have a police stationed throughout the country. We therefore believe it is important to keep the office and the waiter in each municipality. We therefore disagree with the Joint Police Association, which proposes that half of the officers' offices should be closed down. This will result in a strong centralisation of the police and make them less able to combat ordinary crime. We must not forget that 90 pst. of all crime takes place in the municipalities. If we're going to fight it, we're going to be dependent on having a near-police who knows people and the local conditions. And this applies both to preventing crime and to investigating it. The Workers' Party had the Government guarantee the maintenance of the local police in the context of last year's budgetary cooperation. We assume that this guarantee has a duration of more than one year. Crime cannot be combated by unilateral efforts at police and stricter penalties. The countries that have tried the criminal policies of the Party of Advancement and other right-wing parties are the countries that are currently struggling with the highest crime, despite the fact that they have very severe punishments and large police forces. Norway is one of the countries with the lowest crime rate and, among other things, feels that the killing rate is falling. Why is that so? Yes, because the cause of crime is linked to demise and a lack of links with the world of work. Social losers are the hallmark of those who end up in a criminal racetrack. A society that is good at fighting poverty and catching up the losers is also the society that best combats crime. It is not without reason that the Scandinavian countries have relatively low crime. But this alone is not enough either. Crime must be combated both in the front and in the rear. The Labour Party has always intended to react quickly and strictly to criminal acts. This is the only language hard-core criminals understand. The biggest problem in criminal policy today is that those who are being taken do not get a quick enough response. If we're going to stop young first-time criminals, we're going to have to give them a quick response. Today we have long queues in front of the courts and even longer queues in front of the prisons. In addition, the police in many cases spend a long time investigating them. It is not useful to provide the police with additional resources if the courts and prisons do not receive it accordingly. The result will be that the cases accumulate even more in the courts, and the settlement queues are even longer. The Labour Party believes that we cannot live with cases such as what we saw in connection with the robbery at Jessheim, where one of the prisoners was on duty, before he was taken over at Jessheim, because he was waiting for another case to be brought before the court after a meeting he was on in the Drammen. The Labour Party therefore received in the spring all the parties on a proposal to speed up criminal proceedings. Fighting crime is also about having a psychiatry that works, a psychiatry that captures those who have problems, and that has resources to provide treatment to those who need it. Half of all long-term prisoners in Norwegian prisons are treated for mental disorders. We have experienced tragic and frightening episodes both in connection with the carnage in Oslo and the attack on the plane between Narvik and Bodø last week. “We are not good enough in our wonderfully rich country to take care of people with a mental illness,” said former Pedestrian Odd Eriksen when he told us about his dramatic experiences on the plane – a reaction that was in stark contrast to the Progress Party. They thought the solution was to shut asylum seekers in. I trust that the Government will take seriously the complex challenges we face in this field. We have a common responsibility to ensure that people can feel safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e286	In a previous line change today with the representative Lilletun, we came up with a poll that has today been published in the Nation, and I will stay a little more by it. That was interesting, because Lilletun tried an offensive defense for tax relief, and he managed to do so very wisely. At least it was the way the president thought it would be interesting to hear Lilletun whispering the next time, and in that way it would be an interesting experience if we were to experience it. What's interesting about this poll that's published in the nations is not necessarily every number, but what it says is a clear majority of almost 80 pst. want more money for school or more money for elderly care, rather than tax relief for most people or tax relief for business. So it's a very clear majority that what this nation needs to invest in is the community and developing the welfare state, not tax relief for business or ordinary private taxpayers. And why is that? Is it really such that people have not understood their own best, or is it such that the ordinary Norwegian people do not want a business that is up and running, or that we should not have a normal good private household or economy? No, of course it's not. And the reason is that you see that the contrast between public poverty and private wealth has become so great that a large majority of us actually believe that the money we have at our disposal, they need us to use to renovate the community. This is not the case either, and everyone knows that these tax concessions to Norwegian business are what are crucial for the competitiveness or non-competitiveness of Norwegian business. In practice, believing that Norwegian business can compete on so-called framework conditions that are equivalent to low wages or taxes would be completely impossible. The jobs we lose, we lose to low-cost countries, which have a completely different cost level than we do. However, those who rate in Norway, they charge because they are so dependent on knowledge, skills, building things into the product that enable them to actually compete with countries that have a cost level that is significantly lower than in Norway. That means it's in this direction that we have to go as a nation. It means that focusing more on knowledge, more on wealth, more on the community, is actually what over time also makes our businesses more competitive. I want all Norwegian companies to be competitive, but not at all, based on the financial committee that saw in China last year, among others. In Shanghai, we know that if there's labour costs this is about, we're out of chance. We don't have nubbish. So it's profitable to carry fish from the Barents Sea to China and back rather than swallowing the fish in Finnmark. Of course, then we're out of chance. The only way we'll be able to make a competitive business is not by more tax relief, but by using this money to renovate what we're good at. And there we can actually be best. And in many areas Norwegian business is simply best, not because they have low wages, but because they are competent, the people who work in these businesses. So the right-hand side again says that we have to have these tax breaks for business, otherwise we don't create optimism, but pessimism, and we don't get new jobs. Yeah, I guess. We have almost a hundred thousand unemployed in this country. The number of unemployed has only fallen slightly despite the fact that business has gone very well throughout the last year. Norwegian business goes better than ever. It's "all hour high" at Oslo Stock Exchange. This means that this blatant relationship, which everyone claims, or especially the right side, between the so-called lower tax, is considered to be automatically new employees, which is not correct. The point is that what we're probably in now is a jubless growth. This means that business is growing, but at the same time it's caught up with an excessive unemployment rate. One reason is that we also have a government that doesn't want to use the muscles in this room. Then I don't think about the physical muscles, but about the tools that the Storting or Government has to get free hands in work, to use hands and heads in a sensible way for the benefit of everyone. Instead, it is believed that the market and business will fix this, and so we stand there with hundreds of thousands of people who cannot use their labour for the benefit of the community or for the benefit of themselves. This is serious. Because if it really was that tax relief to private people or tax relief to business generated growth, generated labour, generated optimism, then SV would very much like to be involved. But we see that it works just as badly in Norway as it has worked in many other countries that have driven tax relief policies in the hope of getting people to work. What happens is that many take out record profits, many of them also consider people, but too modest in relation to the record profits reported today from Norwegian business. Therefore, the Norwegian people are not so stupid when they say in the study of the nation that what we need is to bet on the community, to bet on what provides the basis for future growth. And this short-term policy of believing that if you just reduce a tax here and there, it creates optimism and more jobs, it's demonstrably wrong. It shows the time we're in now, and it shows that the Norwegian people are actually quite wise, they want more fellowship and less egoism. In this way SV agrees with the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e302	We have waited a long time for the Russian government to decide on the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. It was therefore very happy news that came from Moscow in the last week. After the Russian government has now taken a decision, treatment and approval in the Duma remain. It is a good possibility that the Kyoto Protocol could become operational in the first half of 2005. This will remove an uncertainty that has dominated international climate cooperation for a long time. It is historic that industrialised countries are committed for the first time to concrete commitments to limit and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. The implementation of the Kyoto Protocol will have much to say, not least for further international climate cooperation. We know that the protocol is only a first, small step towards tackling the man-made climate change. However, I hope that the launch will speed up discussions on more global and ambitious climate agreements even after 2012. I can promise that Norway will be a driver for this work. An offensive climate policy is an important contribution to the reduction of pollution, and thus to sustainable value creation and well-being. The government is now working to put in place our own allowance system and to connect it to other allowances systems, initially with the EU. With this quota system in place, Norway will be one of a few countries with an instrument that will cover all types of greenhouse gas emissions on the nearest deck. The global environmental damage is first and hardest for the poorest. The news footage is marked by the storm and flooding raging villages in Central America and Asia. At the same time, drought hazards and emissions are reported in parts of Africa. We are constantly looking at old stockpiles of pollutants in Eastern Europe and Africa, and we are talking about forests that are being hounded, and indigenous people that are being driven out. Poor countries will have the greatest difficulty in adapting to changing climate conditions and loss of biodiversity. Industrial societies are responsible for environmental taxes in poor countries. We therefore have a moral responsibility to change consumption and find technological solutions to these challenges. Good resource management is a commitment to reduce poverty. The government attaches great importance to following up the commitments of the Johannesburg World Summit, among other things. where access to clean water and sanitary conditions is involved. The government sees it as a very important task to strengthen environmental efforts in development cooperation and will pay particular attention to helping the poorest countries. Further development of wealth in rich countries must focus on developing the non-material and interpersonal values and qualities of our society. This will enable us to meet the challenges of nature’s tolerance limits and resource allocation. Each generation has a responsibility to take care of and manage the natural and cultural environment and to ensure that everyone, including people with disabilities, has access to our environmental and cultural resources. Cooperation management will pursue an offensive environmental and resource policy based on the objective of sustainable development. Resilient development requires efforts at many levels and global responsibility is translated into local action. Work on health and environmental hazardous chemicals is an area of concern for the Government. Because the problems are largely cross-border, we will influence the development of EU chemicals legislation. We will also be drivers to strengthen international agreements. National efforts to clean up contaminated soil and sediment and to monitor environmental pollutants in nature and in product. This is a field where we as citizens and consumers have the right to know what we are exposed to, so we can make our own, informed choices. Our national contribution to the conservation of biological diversity consists, inter alia, of: of a special effort for the wild salmon strains and mountain reefs, and a protection of natural areas ensuring habitats for exposed species. The government will continue to prioritise national parks and forest protection. This effort benefits the outdoors and the people. He also benefits Norway as a country of travel, and thus the local value creation. Outdoor activities and the use of open air are a well-being and an important part of the environment policy of the Cooperative Government. In this context, let me remind you that 2005 is the Year of Outdoor Life, and that this is the Ministry of the Environment's main contribution to the 100 year mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e323	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e326	First of all, I would like to congratulate Knut Arild Hareide on his well-perceived debut from Stortinget's pulpit. Hareide highlighted the climate challenges in its contribution, and we in the Workers' Party agree that this is a major challenge. Just after the Bondevik II government joined three years ago, the then Minister for the Environment, Mr Børge Burnde, presented a proposal for the process industry to be covered by the national quota system, which would operate from 2005 until an international quota system is in place. I remember very well how the then Minister for the Environment, Mr Børge Brende, hasselled about the Workers' Party's proposal for a binding agreement with the process industry in order to reduce emissions through that instrument. Then it is gratifying that one of the first things that Environment Minister Knut Arild Hareide did was to go away from the proposal that the process industry should be covered by the national quota system, and that he instead agreed to a binding agreement. I hope the Council of State can confirm that the Government has carried out a reverse operation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e337	What I can confirm is that former environmental protection minister Børge Brende did a very good job of getting an agreement with the Landsförderungsbund. In the agreement, which applies from 2005 to 2007, the Minister for the Environment, Mr Burnde, with his work, secured a reduction of 20 pst. This means that we achieved a very ambitious goal through that agreement. The work done also ensures that we have a full-blown allowance system. This means that when we put our quota system in place, from 2005 to 2007, Norway will be the country in the world that has the most comprehensive quota system, full-blown in terms of climate. And that era has largely taken on former environmental protection minister Børge Brende.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e342	This was touching. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e345	One of the first environmental protection ministers did was to participate in Nature and Youth's summer camp. Nature and Youth is an organisation into which the Ministry of Environment spends money. At the same time, there is an organisation that has no respect for democracy at all, and then I think about the actions they had in the Snow White field, where they put their own and others' lives at risk. I'm going to leave Nature and Youth, but some statements that came up on that summer camp, I've noticed, and I'm asking for an explanation. The Minister for the Environment promised to look at the instructions given by a former workers' party government to the State's pollution control body, to approve any applications for the construction of gas power plants with today's technology. What new leaders do the Council of State think about in relation to the decisions taken by the Stortinget? And when are these new leaders coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e354	It's true, as the representative Korsberg said, that I had the pleasure of attending Nature and Youth's summer conference, a conference that was characterized by both a strong commitment and a great knowledge of environmental challenges. There I gave, among other things. expressions that meeting organisations, being in close contact with them, can provide us with useful information as politicians. I think it's important that we catch up. When it applies to the direction lines of the SFT, we know that they are fixed as they are today. But it's going to be natural to look at the wholeness in relation to the SFT when we present our proposition to the Storting. The proposition will be holistic in relation to the climate, and then it will be natural for us to come back to the Storting to get a healing even when it concerns SFT's guideline.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e362	Let me start by congratulating the Council of State on the job and on his first posts in Stortinget. This promises well, for quite a lot of content I could actually have signed on myself, not least the analysis that the Council of State had of climate policy and the consequences of climate policy for poor people in the third world. That perspective has often been easy for the national debate to fall away, because then there's a lot of talk about you wanting to put down all the jobs in Norway, and we're missing the global perspective that the climate problem actually kills thousands of people every year in this world. So SV thought this was an invitation to continue cooperation, not least in climate policy, with the new Environment Minister. I only want to challenge him at a few points, that's when it's about Snow White and discharge there, and when it's about the new concession for the new gas power plant at Kårstø. That will mean a major challenge, which the SV and the Christian People's Party will be able to solve, but can he solve it in the government say?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e373	I record that Stortinget has a tradition of warmly accepting new government councils. I've also experienced that this time. Thank you for that. It is clear that in climate policy there is no doubt that SV has been a good support player and a warm partner within some of the areas where the government has presented its policy. I hope that the party will also be in the future. I don't want to go in and comment on Snow White concretely. It is a matter that I have to deal with. I want to deal with her and then give her the feeling of the result I get in that case. But it's clear that this is touching on one of our main challenges in relation to climate change. The Kyoto Protocol will now be ratified; it is a commitment for our nation. And if we start by increasing our CO2 emissions significantly, that job will be even tougher. There's something the whole Biggest has to take inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e385	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e388	In the political debate, there is far too little evidence that the absolute connection between value creation and well-being is being pointed out and underlined. The ability of society to produce well-being is constantly linked to the ability we have to create the values. Norwegian business depends on us having the economic floor plan in place. That means we have to have a level of costs that can match the countries we compete with, and the countries we trade with. Our export-dependent companies participate in a world championship, and our competitors are very well prepared and are in constant training. There's no circuitry here that we can participate in. When the Co-operation Government took over three years ago, we had a record high interest rate and a record high interest rate. It was such that an export company got 100 kroner for in 1999, it only got 85 kroner for in 2001. If we're still going to stick to images from the sports field, that means that the competitors in the hundred meters race only had to run 85 meters. One doesn't have to have a lot of imagination to realize that there could easily be red numbers in those accounts. One also understands that in such a situation it does not take many years until the company does not have the power to hold on any longer. This means that more people are going to be unemployed. The recipe for getting interest rates down contains several ingredients, but the main content is a tight fiscal policy. I am proud that the Co-operation Administration has managed to implement this prescription. It is quite clear that it has not been easy. It is always more comfortable to add to the budgets without taking responsibility for the whole. It is demanding to explain all the time that keeping the economy in order will serve both the community and the individual. Another important ingredient is a balanced paycheck. Here it is important to give honor to the social partners. Wage growth has been at a moderate level over the last few years. It is again related to the fact that we have implemented tax reliefs so that both companies and employees are able to meet their financial obligations. It strengthens our competitiveness. The most important thing is that this prescription leads to a downward trend in unemployment. It is our responsibility to ensure that our companies can stand on the same starting line and without extra load in the backpack in competition with our trading partners. The government has, among other things: the contribution to a tax credit scheme for the expenditure of companies on research and development, the so-called ‘Tax FUNN’ scheme. This scheme has been received by the business community with great enthusiasm. The scheme is a good example of the use of the tax system in a way that gives positive growth impulses. Through increased investment in research and development, we will move away from being exclusively a commodity producer to become more competitive in terms of processing, technology development and design. It is therefore important to stress that what the Co-operation Administration has done in recent years is not in any way a finished job or a completed job. Every day we must work to ensure that the competitiveness of Norwegian companies is the best. I would therefore like to warn against the so-called majority option between the socialist parties. If they are able to obtain a majority, they could in a short time destroy the competitiveness of tax increases and increased public consumption. Dark shadows means inwards Norwegian businesses. Then there's a danger that we'll again be standing a few meters behind our competitors on the starting line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e411	The debate today has so much to do with the next fall and the two government options. The choice is between a new right-dominated government with great promises of tax relief to those who have the most already, as the previous speaker spoke for, and a solidarity government that will circle around and further develop the welfare community. My experience out there among people is that they want a new course, that they are more concerned with work for everyone, a better school and a worthy care for the elderly than they are of the tax haven. I also meet a lot of people. are more concerned with better public transport and roads than they are with tax havens. For the Labour Party, work for everyone will always be job no. 1st@item: inlistbox In order to secure work for all, we need to do so. See that we have an infrastructure that makes it possible to work and to book all over the country. The government's party promised a three-year campaign. This is not followed up, and there were unfortunately little in the throne that gave hope of increased bet next year. I hope the budget shows that I'm wrong. For many years I have met many, very many, who are concerned about the stability of politics both in relation to individuals and in relation to business. But we don't get a new course without a new multiple. We don't get greater stability without a plural government or at least a government that has a clear and clear support from a plural in Stortinget. The King, on behalf of the Government, unfortunately gave no signal of a policy conversion cork when it was due to bet on jointly bringing forward tax laws, or when it concerns the liberalisation and postponing of competition by the public sector. The Prime Minister didn't do it today either. He showed, on the contrary, that attack is the best defense. Instead of taking problems inwards, he attacks those who point to the problems. However, I hope that securing safe and good jobs, which is rightly referred to as a primary objective of the Government, and what they say that cooperation with the social partners is important, will be followed up. I would like the government and the various state councils to instruct their subordinate bodies to have such a hold. Then I'm pretty sure the conversions, e.g. A lot of things going on in Avinor AS would've been a lot easier. The Labour Party has agreed that the public sector needs to be reformed, but we think it is a little imaginative to consider the form of a limited company and the postponement of competition as the only salivating. The situation in aviation is serious and demanding for various reasons: First of all, it's a terrorist sector. The last time we saw it in Norway last week. Secondly, there is strong competition between airlines both internationally and nationally, leading to tough switchovers there. Thirdly, there is a demanding conversion process in Avinor AS, and there is now a serious crisis of trust between the lead and the addendum. Finally, and fourthly, the Air Safety Authority is moving to Bodø, and it has so far been difficult to get enough competent people to move with. In addition, several professional bodies have raised questions as to whether the security has been well protected. The information manager of Avinor AS said before the weekend that passengers have to take responsibility for themselves, and the Council of State owed it to Stortinget for the best transmission time on television. This gives cause for concern, and it has caused unrest in the whole country. I'm a little surprised that security in general and before aviation especially doesn't have our theme today, when it takes the Norwegian people as much as it does right now. In the Common Era, it is true that the Government will actively work to strengthen security within all modes of transport. Yes, I sincerely hope so! We in the Labour Party do not intend to review previous decisions now. We don't have plans to go back to decisions on the transfer of Air Traffic Control, and we're not going to interfere with location issues. But we hope that the Government is open to running to evaluate how things are going, etc. whether the form of organisation of Avinor AS is best suited for the purpose. In general, we are concerned about the situation. When uroa is first created, we believe that the matter will be triggered by a special appeal on aviation security attached to the budget. I hope I get a plural for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e441	This year's census has probably not expressed itself in either a positive or a negative direction, and has in that way not separated from other languages of the throne, where it is added up to the more general. But at one point, this number of thrones has stood out a little bit. This concerns the total lack of mention of what is actually happening in this country in terms of health and care. There's one line in the throne, and it's like this: «The government will improve the quality of education, health care and care for the elderly.» So you haven't taken inward that, for example. in the care of the elderly still has enormous problems. We now have a lot of thousands of people in line to get a place in an institution. We still see through the media that patients and residents are placed in the living rooms, at times, and also in the toilets again. We see that in a number of places they're now going to double, so they're actually going to double-space again, despite the reform that this house has adopted. This is very disappointing. I had actually expected more of this government after all the signals given from this room, and after all the debates we've been through. I really hope this will change in the long term. At least the Progress Party will be the one taking the initiative here to put these things on the agenda again. It's obvious that there's no one else willing to do. In one area there have been a number of positive signals today. It concerns the modernisation of the welfare state and, in particular, the social security system, the social security system and the social security system. The state council of the new superministery, the Council of State Høybråten, was among other things: in their article here today. It is important that we get ahead of this work so that we can get the most effective welfare management in this country. In this context, NOU 2004:13, a thick book, has also been prepared. It's been interesting reading. But I really get hope that the government does not promote a proposition that is in line with what is here, because then, once again, you have not heard the Stortinge order in this case. I'm actually going to help the government a little bit on the way, because it's obvious that one has forgotten the Stortinge's decision in this room in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 14 for 2002-2003. I would then draw attention to the II of the Decision, which reads as follows: ‘The Government asked for different models of one common welfareset consisting of today’s Aetat, Social Security and Social Action.’ At least you have to expect that when you promote a cause for the Storting over the New Year, it is the order that you deliver the result of. I look forward to that, because we have a worrying development both in the workplace and in the number of disabled people in this country, and not least those who are long-term recipients of social assistance, who actually want to get into work in order to give birth to their own family. In this context, it is important to have overall management, which the Council of State Højbråten was involved in. If we get a two-part division here, to which the Rattsø committee is now adding up, you'll still be able to maintain the artificial dividing lines between different public agencies. It's like that, among other things. is recommended here, is to separate an autonomous state pension rate. It would definitely not be recommended, because it is, among other things, shall be responsible for some benefits, including family benefits. Things are kind of hanging out. We are no more than 4.5 million inhabitants in this country. At least you have to expect that we will be able to modernise and streamline in such a way that those in need of help, who are sorely in need of help, get what they need, and not be exposed to an unworthy black player game and have to run from office to office because the public does not agree with themselves on how to organize.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e466	It is basically a shame that the Prime Minister is not present, because I was going to make a hopefully last attempt to explain to the Prime Minister that he was actually a better prime minister for the municipalities in his first period of government than he is in this period of government. I have to admit that I have been very sorry to hear both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Municipal Council say that the growth and revenues of the municipalities are considerably greater now than when the Senter party was in government. This is not a claim, it is correct, but it is a reasonably uninteresting claim. The fact that growth is so strong is due to the fact that tax revenue has failed at over NOK 2 billion in the previous year, as opposed to 1999 when we had an increase in tax in municipalities of over NOK 2 billion. It is therefore not the increase in the income of municipalities that is crucial for how municipalities can handle their tasks. That's the bottom line. That's what the municipalities are left with when they have paid their expenses, and when the costs increase more than the income does, the result is then. For those who find these relationships difficult to see, there is a reasonably clear overview in the Government’s own document on the local economy on page 182, which shows that net operating profit is significantly worse in this government’s time compared to what it was in the past. That's what matters, not the growth of income. It's just like the private economy of each of us. The level of revenue growth from one year to another is reasonably uninteresting if the cost increase is similar. That's what we're left with in the money book after the year has passed, which matters. This has also happened in the municipal sector. Despite a sharp fall in interest rates, the operating results are deteriorating. The representatives of the government parties could not have missed the fact that we were told almost every day about problems at school, in health care, in the care of the elderly or in the protection of children, just to give some examples. This is the best sign that the situation in the municipalities is not as it should be. I think we're all about admitting that it's not easy to create the welfare society we all want. It is not easy to pinch your fingers and say that everything is going to be fine. It won't be for any of us. Some of us have learned that this is a long way to go, and there is a heavy work to be done. But the impression that the government parties are now trying to re-establish helps to create the political disdain that we are all trying to avoid. It helps to get people out there to say that we are in Oslo on the rise and in government are people who are completely unintelligible about what everyday life feels like for most people. It's a situation we shouldn't be in, and it's a situation that the prime minister and the municipal minister should at least do their part to help us avoid. They don't do that with the way they produce conditions in the municipalities today. There is a lot of good going on in the Norwegian economy. To claim something else would be to speak falsely. We're in a boom. We have low interest rates, and we have significant growth in investment in some areas. But there's a reason to also look at these numbers about how the Norwegian economy is going. High growth is largely due to an increase in consumption based on imports. Unemployment breaks down at a high level. Competitive sector still has major problems, and it is not in this sector that investment comes. It is in the service sector, as the NHO has just shown in a research report. Not enough of that, the investment in both construction and construction comes mainly in cities and in the eastern region. Investment in the number of dwellings in 2004 is more than seven times larger for the eastern part of Norway than for Northern Norway, while investment in professional buildings is five times larger. It says a little bit about the huge, massive centralization that we're now experiencing. The fishing industry is struggling with profitability. We've had a record high number of bankruptcies in the last year. Young fishermen must give up the profession they have chosen to engage in. They must sell their boats and face an uncertain future in areas where alternative professional choices are few. It is in this situation that the Government can rightly be accused of inaction. There is a strong change in business structure and housing patterns, and the government's people do nothing but settle down the fact that the macroeconomic figures are moving in the right direction, while we are slowly, but surely moving towards a Kuwait economy and massive centralization. It is in this situation that a policy is required in which we invite the people to work to build the country, and not a policy in which increased consumption for individuals is to be the most important. Tax relief is not the solution to the challenges we are now facing, but rather a targeted and active policy to renovate the community with a view to meeting the future in a sustainable way. We need to invest even more in knowledge, in infrastructure, in research and development of jobs in areas where we have opportunities to continue to lead, for example. in the maritime sector, in the marine sector and in the energy sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e485	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e488	The representative, Mr Enoksen and I are probably in agreement that the World Trade Organisation and the negotiation results that exist there will affect Norway. The WTO is a central part of the globalised economy to which we have to deal and which will affect Norwegian industrial policy and local economy. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, called for a public commission on agriculture this summer. First, this Commission should work towards agreement on what the new WTO rules actually mean, and second, have as its mandate to draw up how we can transform support for agriculture, districts and business into something offensive within the new rules and thus make it something offensive. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Enoksen, to explain how he believes that Norway should deal with the WTO and the proposal by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e497	It is undoubtedly an important task to ensure that, within the new WTO frameworks, we also have a viable agriculture in Norway, but in my view it is not a task for a Commission. It is primarily a task for the government’s representatives who are now negotiating the future WTO outcome, to ensure that we end up with a negotiated result that will enable us to have viable agriculture in Norway, where it will be profitable to produce food, where we will live to produce. To set up a commission to do this job, I honestly don't think it's the way to go. We have an office in different departments to facilitate and make the framework of the new WTO Agreement visible. We also have a system of popular choice, and within this we need to have different opinions on how to best exploit the frameworks set by the WTO Agreement. What must be clear, however, is that it is primarily the responsibility and the task of the Government to ensure that we achieve an acceptable negotiated result.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e502	I have not intended to plague the representative of Enoxsen with the resistance of the Centre Party to the Snow White Development and to drilling in the Barents Sea. I have also not intended to interfere in the process of the Center Party's programme, but I still want to test some arguments in relation to the representative, Enoxsen. We know that in the Russian sector, in the Shtokman field, there is now talk of the Russians putting work, drilling and expansion into action. Does the representative of Enoxsen not feel that Norwegian interests had been reassured by participation with the Russians in the Barents Sea extraction process? Then I think about both technology development and safety and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e510	The short answer to that is, well, it would have been most reassuring. I think Norwegian companies have a good deal to contribute in cooperation with the Russian authorities and Russian companies to ensure that we have the most environmentally friendly and secure extraction of oil and gas in the northern regions. It is precisely the strong control that we have had with our oil companies and the high standards that have been set by the Norwegian authorities, which means that today we have an oil industry that is close to world standards in terms of the environment and safety of the work we are doing. This is what we're going to continue to develop. We're going to take care of this. We will also make the best use of this in cooperation with the authorities of other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e517	The representative, Enoxen, used most of his post to talk about the past and to argue with the current government party about who is best, and about who should tolerate the most, as a wise man said. I want to look forward. Studies show that 80,000 industrial workplaces have been outsourced in recent years. In fact, 80,000 new industrial workplaces are in the process of being outsourced by 2010. We in the Progress Party will make Norway attractive as a country of establishment through strong reductions in taxes and taxes on businesses, in other words, an active industrial policy where business neutrality is a fi-word. What means does the Centre Party have to counter the relocation of jobs and competences?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e524	It is a serious warning to all of us that so many industrial workplaces have disappeared from the country and that we are in danger of losing many in the future. There is a work that needs to be tackled in several areas. Unfortunately, the medicine of the Advance Party is not the right one. The medicine of the Progress Party will lead us to an even greater transition to the business world we have seen in the past: a more and more consumption- and service-based business, where industry will continue to lose with the growth impulses provided by the Progress Party through its budget, and in the way it budgets. It is necessary to focus on research and to facilitate a policy in which we invest in infrastructure and in knowledge in the sectors in which we have natural advantages, and in competitive business, as I also said in my main post, in contrast to what the Government is doing now, and in contrast to the policies supported by the Progress Party by giving its support to this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e531	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e534	So optimism is back in business. Not since winter 2001 has belief in the future been as great as it is now. Half of small business managers expect increased turnover and profitability over the next 12 months, and one in five enterprises expect to employ more people. This shows the Small Business Barometer that the Federation is behind. Business also borrows money again, and ordinary people have almost never had as optimistic expectations about their own economy as they do today, and today it was a record quotation for Oslo Børs, a very positive signal for the Norwegian economy. This happy situation is not a result of chance. When the Cooperative Government took over after the government of Stoltenberg in the autumn of 2001, the economic situation was in sharp deterioration. It was a high interest rate. The krone course had strengthened. Wage growth was higher than in our competitor country. And the government of Stoltenberg had, at the top of it all, imposed a huge extra burden on business in the form of heavily increased taxes. As a result, business has fallen and has had dramatic consequences for thousands of employees. Many businesses were flagged out, and more than 100,000 people were unemployed. When 100,000 people become unemployed, people’s well-being and security are dramatically affected, both directly by the unemployed and indirectly by public resources to provide welfare services. Cleaning up this has been a job no. 1 for the Cooperation Administration. What, then, has the Government done to reverse the negative trend it took in 2001? Firstly, taxes and charges are reduced by nearly $20 billion in three years. Most of it's gone to the companies. These are the tax-enhancing comrades in the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party refer as tax reliefs to the richest. Secondly, economic policy has been tight and responsible, and the Government has had to hold back some areas in order to bring down the crown and interest levels. This responsibility has been referred to as unsocial cuts by the tax-enhancing parties. The fact that low interest rates and exchange rates have been vital for Norwegian companies, Norwegian workers and Norwegian families has obviously not brought with them the left side. Thirdly, the growth in earnings in Norway is now in line with the growth of our competitors. The government has played an active role in cooperation with the social partners and has contributed to a responsible approach. These are fundamental prerequisites for maintaining jobs in a competitive economy. Fourthly, the Government has at the same time prioritised school, research and modernisation, which is very important in the long term. We are now recording that the forces are being brought together on the socialist side, and that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, together with the main sponsor LO, will be stabilizing on the feet of a purely socialist government. Such a socialist government, with the tax-enhancing parties behind the rudder, has announced a change of course. No matter how many times Stoltenberg repeats the promise that the tax burden will not be increased, there is no doubt that this is exactly the result. The working party has a consistent practice of increasing taxes. Since the last tax reform was adopted in the 1990s and until the current peak period, the Labour Party has proposed to increase taxes by more than DKK 30 billion. In 2001, the Labour Party was able to give the Norwegian people a tax return of NOK 12 billion, or approx. NOK 5000 per year. economically active. The Labour Party has promised a lot of money for good purposes. In August, the NRK documented that Stoltenberg’s summer lifts cost a total of DKK 24 billion. This is NOK 10,000 in increased tax per year. economically active. The signals from the main sponsor of the Workers' Party are very clear. The LO leaders are closest in line to order the Workers' Party to increase taxes. Comment from Morten Eye, leader of LO State, says most of the time: ‘It is naive to believe that we can maintain the current welfare level without increasing taxes.’ And on the other hand, ‘I understand that it is not easy to vote for increased taxes, but this is a very important discussion that we need to take.’ The working party will run together with the SV and the Center Party, which also have billions of lifts. There is a high risk that such a socialist government will increase the pressure in the Norwegian economy with increased interest rates, increased dollar rates and increased wage growth as a result, just as the situation was in 2001. In addition, we know that the same three parties will pursue a education policy with less focus on quality, diversity and knowledge. Modernisation and the outsourcing of the public sector will be halted. You want to give the LO veto right to conversion. Public ownership in business will be increased and diversity and choice will be reduced in several important welfare areas. Therefore, I am not in doubt that the socialist option will provide less and no more well-being for the inhabitants of this country. Such a government will reduce value creation, and you'll also get less of the values that are created. The government has reduced taxes and taxes and got order of the Norwegian economy. The positive situation today shows that there is a clear link between tax relief, economic value creation and well-being. Then more people come to work, business increases its value creation, and the foundation is laid to finance both private and public welfare. The government has also made everyday life better for most people. But there is still important work to be done to meet the many challenges of the future. That's why the Co-operation Board has to rule for four new years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e576	Work prevents poverty. All research and experience in this area illustrates the link between poverty and those who have ended up outside the regular working life for some reason. At the same time, for society it is a significant waste of resources to park people on the outside of ordinary working life. A work life for all is therefore beneficial both for individuals and for society. A much more active policy is needed to secure existing and create new jobs. It has to be actively worked to prevent people from falling out of work, and society has to take responsibility for getting people back to work when they're on the outside. The working life must have room for everyone. At the end of the last week, Aetat's new figure showed that the unemployment rate remained stable. A number of 90,000 people are registered completely unemployed, which is 3.8 pst. by the labour force. That's about the same level as in August. What is now new is that Aetat reports that a tight local economy means that unemployment continues to increase within the framework of health, care and care. It is not new that the municipalities are struggling with the economy. Already in 2003 the municipalities were so heavily economical that they had to go to cancel the additions, and the position remained vacant because the municipalities could not afford to hire employees. The negative economic situation for municipalities has only developed worse during 2004 – despite the fact that the Labour Party in the budgetary agreement with the Government Party has raised the municipal sector by DKK 2.2 billion. I would like to point out that Sweden will now invest in a strong growth in the local government sector to curb unemployment. The Bondevik II signal does not indicate that this is a current policy here in the country, rather the opposite. The government's municipal policy provides greater unemployment and less well-being. At the top of this, more and more municipalities come into the famous ROBEK register, or in the county blackbook, which it is called on the populace. Per. Today, one of four municipalities is on this list, and the number of municipalities on this list has increased significantly during the period during which the Bondevik II government has had government power. What worries me the most is the strong growth in the number of job seekers with disabilities. In the last year, this has increased by 11,210 people, corresponding to a growth of 14 pst. Some of these increases may be explained by the fact that the social security rate refers several persons to the professional right of reimbursement earlier during the sick period. In addition, the right to re-execution shall be required to be tested before any default benefit is granted, to be intensified. But most of all, this development tells of a work life that is exclusive and not inclusive. We need to target and reinforce measures that lower the threshold for this group, so that the labour market actually gives room for everyone. At the end of September this year, a total of 16,888 people under the age of 25. This is a waste of young people's resources. If the Labour Party had been able to implement the proposal to extend the Youth Guarantee up to 25 years, this challenge would have been much less. In order to combat youth unemployment, the supply of higher education, further training, apprenticeships, regular jobs and labour market measures needs to be seen in a context. Particular attention needs to be paid to skills enhancement, job search, job training and the preparation of individual work plans, so that young people do not become watered to leave. Therefore, it is regrettable that the government party and the Progress Party will not be with us in this bet. The government often boasts that they are fighting offensively in the field of poverty. Yes, that's right, but the only thing is that the government's medicine is too heavily influenced by measures that will provide more poverty, poorer follow-up of the unemployed and reduced daily allowances, and a labour market that is the most self-regulatory. This doesn't help people out of poverty traps. My claim is that one of the most important factors in making Norway a welfare state and a good country to live in is the efforts of authorities to ensure low unemployment. Therefore, there is a need to take much stronger and active action in labour market policy. We also need the ability to see policy in context. When local authorities receive smaller transfers, employment and welfare production are affected. And when a person weakens the law that regulates workers' rights, there is a risk that more people will be knocked out of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e595	‘Measuring measures to combat bullying in society will continue to be prioritised.’ ‘The anti-racism action plan will be followed up. The new Act on Ethnic Discrimination shall be followed up by the establishment of an Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman.’The Government will continue to work towards better integration and inclusion of immigrants and refugees in Norway.’ These three quotes are all taken from the throne. But in the newspaper on 30 September this year we find a different kind of wording. Here, Minister of State Erna Solberg says: ‘The alternative to putting people on the street is to lock them in.’ In the same article, she elaborates: ‘We can put them in prison for those who die. But he didn't melt, he set a fire to himself." The person to whom the municipal minister referred was an asylum seeker who was put in a cell in Bergen because he could not provide the correct identity. The asylum seeker died because of the fire damage he suffered. The contrasts between the well-chosen formulations of a throne speech and the reality created by the government itself can hardly be greater. In the languages of the throne, the government extended: ‘The fight against poverty shall be reinforced, both nationally and internationally.’ On October 1st, I met two women from Northern Ireland here at Stortinget. There were two women who had been in work for nearly 30 years, who were used to doing a job, and who were used to doing themselves. Both had experienced sickness due to musculoskeletal disorders – only over a time when they were optimistic and hoped to come back to work, so eventually for a longer period, but all the time with it as a starting point that they would return to the work they had had had. One of the women fell then and broke her arm in addition, just before the right to further rehabilitation money went out. When she contacted the social security office to find out what she was going to do, she was told that she had to go to social security if she was to have further benefits. So this is about a person who has been used to doing himself, who has lived without being burdened by society, but who, because of unfortunate circumstances, perhaps even because for many years, has been in a job that has been physically heavy and demanding, is ultimately unable to do it, and is dependent on public benefits. So we see it as a direct consequence of the government's own policy of restricting the right to benefit over time, of ending up becoming a social client. It was a psychiatrist who called me a few days ago and explained that the situation of two women here is not unique at all. There are now a number of psychiatric patients who have been away from work because the disease they have had has been serious. Because it's taken time to get them back, more people now feel they're losing their rehabilitation money. And you can imagine what kind of situation it creates for people who have already suffered severe plagues, when the family and themselves are going to experience an unsafe financial framework, and they are referred to having to contact social affairs in order to get further benefits. The psychiatrist told me what had happened to the one when he contacted the local social security office and asked how he could get the rehabilitation money back. The answer he received made a certain impression on me. The social security officer had then replied: then you have to make sure to give the country a new government. It shows how widespread the perceptions are now becoming that the Government is creating poverty, they are not solving the problem. So even though a message has been chosen to help make it less poor, more and more schemes have been created that start to remind you of the old poor box, where instead of making sure that people have benefits that make them manage over time, they eliminate the benefits, and then you think that the mechanism should be that you have to deal with yourself through coercion. And everything indicates that the mechanism doesn't work that way. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that the government not only formulate fine words in a throne, but also in practical politics it shows that it is important to focus on what you say yourself. The wording that I quote from the Newspaper suggests that there is a very long way between the content of the languages of the throne and the way the councils think about changing society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e642	Good district policy cannot be developed once and for all. Several good district policy instruments are under pressure, and it is therefore an important objective of the Christian People's Party to continue to develop district policy. The Christian People's Party has great expectations of the District Commission, which is in the process of a comprehensive review of district policy. An active district policy must cover both the framework conditions of primary industries, general industrial policy, research, development and innovation, trade policy, transport and good competitive conditions through sound fiscal policies. Communication technology has made it possible to place in the districts a number of jobs that have previously been automatically ported in major cities. Here our government has acted exemplaryly. However, in order for businesses to establish themselves, it is important that basic services in schools, health, kindergarten and culture are in place in all municipalities. The economy of each municipality is often crucial when it comes to new business start-ups. The Christian People's Party is therefore very concerned about facilitating a healthy community economy. ‘North regions are the countries of opportunity’, says the Committee of Experts on Northern Areas in NOU 2003:32. Most of the Norwegian economic zone and one third of the mainland coastline are north of the Arctic Circle, and with Svalbard, the Norwegian region goes far into the Arctic Ocean. In the north, Norwegian interests are bordering on a number of countries. Large petroleum resources have been identified in the northern regions of both the Norwegian and — in particular — the Russian economic zone, and an increasing energy demand, particularly in the United States, puts considerable pressure on the use of these resources. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the oil and gas deposits in the Barents Sea should provide a basis for re-introduction in our northern part of the country, but it is assumed that activities take place within the framework of high environmental requirements, foreseeable framework conditions and co-existence with other industries. In this context, it may be good district policy to use resources to strengthen the east-west links in the north. There is a huge trade market east of North Norway, and it is a pleasure to experience that Russian competence and the desire to get really going are present both in the churches, in Narvik and in large parts of the business world in North Norway. The same Committee of Experts on the North proposes a north-eastern billion to speed up East-West cooperation, in my opinion, well-used district funds. Fisheries and aquaculture are and will be very important for the settlement and income base of the northernmost counties and along large parts of our coast. 95 pst. all Norwegian seafood is exported. Good market access to both the European and global markets is therefore essential. It is equally a goal that more of the Norwegian raw materials are processed domestically. A dedicated fish replenishment program may be the solution. Close cooperation between the fleets of the sea and the industry on land is very important. The quality of the raw material needs to be increased, and terrestrial industries need to be guaranteed full-year deliveries in order to create safe jobs. The Christian People's Party will consider awarding instrument concessions in whitefish with local binding to ensure delivery to industry in North Norway. Increased investment in travel life, e.g. in combination with agriculture and local cultural traditions, represents new opportunities for District Norway. Personally, I am not in doubt that an OL to Tromsø will have effects far beyond the purely sporting. For the tourism industry there will be a unique opportunity to present a continent with natural experiences in the highest world class. So a little bit about transportation. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a strong commitment to culture based on the need for value creation, the need to reduce the remoteness of districts, and to improve accessibility and security. A well-developed property is the very lifeblood of the transport system. In rural areas, road transport is often the only alternative and central to ensuring accessibility. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party is committed to facilitating maritime transport to increase its market share. Finally, the Christian People's Party will still be a driving force in the use of district policy instruments that stimulate settlement in all parts of the country and counteract centralisation. However, a successful rural policy depends on seeing this in the context of research and innovation, a better infrastructure, new products and better use of raw materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e674	Cooperation between different batches may be demanding, not least in areas related to the balance between use and protection of nature. Since Norway has rich commercial natural resources, these issues are often under debate. Through the Sem Declaration, the right and government parties have found good approaches. Then I am much more uncertain as to what the parties on the socialist side will in practice be able to agree on if they are to become a majority. And these are important questions. It is unnecessary to look at the meaning of the petroleum sector for Norway, both financially and in terms of economic and industrial development. We are talking about the industry that has the most desiderate importance for the country. Here, the Right and Government parties have been able to group a majority behind an activity package in order to stimulate increased exploration activities, increase extraction rates in existing fields and exploit smaller fields. Furthermore, the focus is on the level of costs and measures that can improve the profitability of oil companies, supply industries and the state as such. In addition, changes have been made in incentive schemes to increase diversity and competition on the base. These measures are a declaration of will that we want to reach a long-term development path for this industry. The Government has not only made a declaration of will but has taken practical and visible action. These are effective measures. In particular, the Government has granted companies access to large, prospective areas in the 18th round of allocation. The government will follow up on this in future allocation rounds, including: with allocations in the Barents Sea. The companies have shown that they value this through their applications and obligations under different licences. The applications for new extraction permits in predefined areas show that industry optimism is good. It was recently published that 22 oil companies have searched in these mature areas on the base. These are important signals for a supplier industry that depends on a still high level of activity. The guarantee scheme for new buildings in the shipbuilding industry also contributes to the industry’s future faith in a targeted and positive way. The development of snow-white in the north is a good example of the regional effects of this type of project. Through investments in the order of DKK 40 billion, the region has not previously been close to correspondingly large investments. When this project was being treated in Stortinget, the regional missions were estimated to be about approx. 600 million. kr. At that time, several even claimed that these estimates were too high. In retrospect, it appears that estimates were too low. Until today, Nordic companies have been responsible for deliveries of more than DKK 1.5 billion. And the project is not yet completed. This example shows the regional effects of this industry, and better district policy than this, I think we should look for a long time. Finnmark and Hammerfest are on the map, and optimism characterizes society. This has been possible because batches have managed to agree on the difficult balance between the use and management of natural resources in vulnerable areas. Then I am much more skeptical of what we can expect from the socialist side in the future if those parties were to come into position after next year's elections. How, then, does one deal with the fact that the Socialist Left does not want this type of activity in the northern regions? Yes, not only are they against, representatives of this party were even willing to break Norwegian law by linking themselves to plant machinery to prevent the expansion – this in parallel with, among other things, that. Statoil recently announced that the northern regions are their strongest bet area. Other companies have also signalled their wish to invest in these areas. The right and the government parties have an agreement on progress in relation to Northern Ireland VI and VII — through the notified overall management plan for the area. How will the socialist parties deal with this important issue in possible cooperation with the Labour Party? I am very sceptical on behalf of both the industry and the districts. With such a majority I fear that the oil adventure in the north will end almost before it begins. Another area representing an important challenge and difficult intersections between batches is the energy balance in Norway. A stable and secure supply of energy is one of the basic elements of most industrial and industrial activities. In addition, there is an essential well-being for the individual household. Energy supply is therefore a very central issue, which requires a special focus on the policy agenda. The winter of 2002 showed with all clarity how vulnerable our power supply is to periods of precipitation. Today, Norway is not self-sufficient in electricity in a normal year. One important reason for this is that we have not built up enough new power supply in our own country or repaired bottlenecks in the power supply in the Nordic region. Through the Communication on security of supply, which came in the wake of the winter 2002 cold water, the Government has put forward several measures to address this issue on the offensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e697	I can continue where the representative Meling left off. I think it's amazing that the energy storm power Norway, which is almost flooded with energy, has been able to manage itself so that one has to import large amounts of power in a so-called normal year. This is primarily due to the political active intervention on the supply side of the power market and the fact that power production has increased in line with demand. It is this policy, or rather a lack of policy, that meant that the power supply was close to breaking down last winter. It is this lack of energy policy that forced many to go the heavy road to the social office to get help with the electricity bill, which they did not get. Unfortunately, the government's census did not signal a switch to a more offensive policy in this important area. It was claimed that environmental considerations are the main reason why further hydropower development and power generation based on gas has been hindered for many years. Obviously, it does not matter that this totally misunderstood environmental approach directly extends life to old, polluting coal-fired power stations and, last but not least, old nuclear power plants. At the same time, we know that gas power plants based on BAT – Best Available Technology – pollute far less than the old coal-fired power plants in terms of both sulphur, particulate matter and CO2. In other words, there are clear environmental benefits by using gas for power generation in Norway. This type of power generation is clearly the most stable power generation we can have, as opposed to, for example, wind power. Gas-based power generation is also much cheaper than wind power and can also improve the efficiency situation, which is very difficult in many places in the country. However, the relationship between supply and demand on the market is crucial for the electricity price. It is obvious that stable and predictable gas-based power supply will have a positive and stabilising effect on the electricity price and could at best bring it down. For many years, the Progress Party has been in charge of power generation based on gas. In the spring session, we proposed an action plan for the construction of gas power plants that would ensure Norwegian works the same framework conditions as others in the EEA area and clear up the political and economic uncertainty created by unclear or negative political signals. All other political parties rejected the proposal, with the main reason that there was no political reluctance to build gas power plants in Norway. I wish this were right. I challenged former oil and energy ministers several times on this issue and got clear assurances that there was no political reluctance on the part of the Government regarding gas power plants. Three concessions were granted, and according to the Council of State, there were only economic reasons why these were not built. I got as clear, if not even clearer, assurances about this from oil and energy minister Thorhild Widvey at an energy conference in Haugesund in August: no political uncertainty or reluctance. On Wednesday 22 September, Naturkraft announced its decision to implement its plans to build gas power plants on Kårstø and to use one of the company's two concessions. And what happens? Well, despite the clear assurances that there is no political reluctance on the part of the Government, we feel the very opposite. Despite the fact that the Government's Sem Declaration states that the three concessions given are firm, the negative signals of the Government come on continuous tapes. Prime Minister, Minister of Environment and Minister of Agriculture have all been outside and have referred to the plans of Natural Power in very negative order. An hour ago, the Minister for the Environment called for a review of the SFT's instructions in this area. The same negative signals have also come from the big-time representatives representing at least two of the government parties. I expect you to now keep your fingers off the barrel and keep your promises and do not put any more screws in the wheels for those who will now bet on gas power in Norway. Because gas power is now needed to ensure both business and people's most abundant supply of electricity at a reasonable price.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e716	Our welfare community is built on people having labour income. It provides both social and economic security. An active industrial policy will provide more jobs and revenues to the country so that welfare goods can be maintained and further developed. The figures from Aetat for September show that the time off seems to be getting stuck. More than 103 000 people are unemployed if you expect those who are on different labour market measures. Statistics from the Central Bureau show that only in the last year Norway has lost between 17 000 and 18 000 industrial workplaces. And as if it wasn't enough: it's now signaling that 80 000 jobs can be moved out of Norway in the next five years. The Industry Committee is still in contact with enterprises that are taking their production out of the country. We were in Murmansk and met a company from Kirkenes that established itself on the Russian side, 3 miles from Kirkenes, and the salary level was 12-15 kroner an hour. We have met representatives of a company from Bergen that has established itself in the Czech Republic and pays a tenth of the salary to its employees there compared to those who are in Norway. The answer to these challenges cannot be as expressed by the Minister of Industry, namely that he is satisfied with the industrial policy of the Government. No, this shows that there is a need for a much more active industrial policy here in the country if we are to secure people's work in Norway. Business policy is one of the most important things we can work with. We have to dry to be active within the international framework of which we are part. We may or may not, but the framework for industrial policy is a little different today than before. Some believe that this means that we should not have a state-owned enterprise policy, that the toolbox is empty, and that businesses should manage themselves. That's wrong. The stronger and more open international competition, the more important it is that we use the means we have. We need to have an interaction between the market and the public, between the enterprise and the state. We as authorities must see opportunities and be creative. The Labour Party will have a socialised market and not a market-driven society. The Labour Party believes that there is a need to pursue a long-term and predictable policy for increased value creation, re-establishment and conversion. Active policies for the construction of enterprises and jobs are needed. We do not disagree with the Government that it is essential to keep order in the economy. A stable exchange rate, low inflation, low interest rates and sound budgetary policies are crucial for the profitability of Norwegian enterprises. But we have to do something more. What we think is wrong is that the government is going to downgrade the government's instruments. In each budget, government grants to start-ups, research and development, local food and other public instruments have been cut. Toolbox is empty, former Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen. What happened was that the Government itself emptied the Toolbox. The answer was tax havens. The Working Party has put back some of the tool. We have made sure that the appropriations for Innovation Norway were increased, we have increased the appropriations for tourism, invested in gas ferries, on net wages for seafarers and not least on the conversion package to Årdal and Høyanger. Whether the new Minister of Industry, Børge Brende, will use the tool remains to be seen. But the signals are not very good. For in the Evening Post on July 4th he writes: ‘... unprofitable activities should not be supported. Wage and salary earners do not need support. What is important is to provide good, predictable and general framework conditions for all Norwegian businesses.’ These are not good signs of innovation and growth, as the Workers' Party wants. Norway has a high degree of economic autonomy, a high level of knowledge base and highly educated population, a high level of access to natural resources, raw materials and energy, as well as outstanding clusters of expertise in oil and gas, aquaculture and maritime food, ICT and shipping. We can never compete with low-cost countries for cheap labour. We can't get the cheapest, but we can get the best. It requires an active investment from both the public and the private. Then we can succeed, so that more people can become part of Norwegian working life and thus also part of the welfare community.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e753	A debate on the throne is interesting to follow. Of course, for a person who is happy in democracy and parliament, it is a holiday. In addition, there is the last persuasion debate before a decision that may be more than in very many years is going to be a choice between government options. The noise level and the adrenaline level that will enter the debate both here in the house and outside the house when the state budget is presented in a few days – at least it has always been this way – has been in a way excluded from this debate. But then the debate says a lot, because we see how the parties are trying their rhetoric and developing their front lines in the long election campaign towards the big elections next year that must be said to be going on with this debate. I have followed the debate with great interest today and will express my surprise at the fact that the three parties that want to appear as a majority government option have not used the opportunity even more to chisel out what you should have a majority for. I think one should notice that. So what could possibly be a debate on a majority option against the minority option of the sitting government is also a little punctuated when the leader of the Labour Party today, with quite a lot of clarity, stated that a good alternative to a majority rule of socialist parties was a minority government of the Workers' Party. And I seemed to be able to register, at least I perceived it, that the leader of the Workers' Party was quite comfortable with that idea. I also seemed to notice that part of the Workers' Party's representatives in the hall liked that idea. Things could stay back to the old one. Agriculture and rural policy have also been addressed by many, and of course it is an agricultural minister, and now also food minister, pleased. I think it's going to be an important policy area ahead of next year's elections, not least because we want to be through the decisive negotiations on the WTO regime, which will be quite crucial for what agricultural and district Norway will look like. Neither have the parties here on the socialist side who want to form a majority government, told them how to do it. It's even a little unclear whether you're going to meet the future here in a way – and I think many of that within what the option stands for – to see the possibilities, or whether you should close your eyes and dream of the past, as I record that someone is doing. There have been some years under the Bondevik II government with major reforms in agricultural policy. I think this is going to go into history as a period of very many important reforms. Some are controversial, and the debate is going. On one of them there has been little debate, and it is about what is now happening in agricultural policy towards using local democracy more, giving more local freedom and thus getting more local variation. There's a lot of tools in the toolbox for a Minister of Agriculture, I'm not hiding it. But it's a point when you have a lot of tools, that you also have a lot of craftsmen. Therefore, it is important to use local democracy and give responsibility in agricultural policy locally. We have done so in many areas. This applies in the law now in force and in the financial instruments in important areas. I think it is quite crucial to achieve good results in the future, because, in my view, the centralist one model for the whole of Norway policy is not suitable for achieving the results we need in the future. Then the Ministry of Agriculture changed its name from 1 October to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. With that, we take the consequence that food is becoming a much more politicized area than it has been before. It's just to open the tabloids every day, we see that food questions are important. Much of it is just pleasant, but more and more there are controversial questions that it is important also to address from a government. We want to take the consequences of that. Food is health, food is well-being, food is the big questions in the world about hunger, etc., and it should be raised in policy in a more important way. I believe that it is not WTO issues and other external issues that primarily call for the modernisation of agricultural policy, but the following simple reasoning: we are getting richer, but we cannot become ever more saturated. That means we spend less money on food. Then we have to do something in agricultural policy and in rural policy that means that the districts and those who live on the land do more than produce food. That's the basic context we have to take the consequences of. I have quite a few very nice numbers to serve for Stortinget, who tells us what is done about private business in Norwegian gardening that is not traditional agriculture. It's pretty interesting, and the numbers were published in these days. Thus, 19 000 years of private activities are carried out on non-traditional Norwegian farms, as many as 45 000 people are employed, and 21.3 billion kroner a year are produced in this type of farming, which is not traditional agriculture but is carried out on the gardens. Think what we can do if there is a targeted policy to achieve more of it!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e774	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e777	State Council Sponheim called for a little clear talk about what the other parties wanted with Norwegian agricultural policy in the future. Sponheim itself needs to answer the fundamental question: What is the objective of agricultural policy? The aim of agricultural policy is so clear to produce food. We are quite a few of them. But the food we could produce with half as many added to agriculture as we have today, and we could do it in more central areas. The second objective has always been to have an agricultural policy throughout the country, i.e. to be a regional policy instrument. The dilemma here, too much structural change and large use units, as we are now seeing, clearly leads us to a somewhat more robust agriculture to master the international challenges such as: The WTO will face us. But the importance of building, for employment and for living settlements will then gradually go down. Isn't it true that the target achievement would be so good with less use units? And how are we going to defend the transfers to agriculture in the future if the importance for the districts is still going down?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e784	It's just the answer to the representative Rudihagen's question that makes agricultural policy so exciting and so difficult, because it's about so much more than a simple goal: to produce food efficiently – many goals that are about not delivering to a market, but delivering to a political market, collective goods, if you want. But the food production itself has become more efficient and will be. It is not possible to sit in the organisations and blame only for poor agricultural ministers, because technology is driving this forward. There'll be fewer farmers with more balls, and they're white-painted. It's efficiency, and it's technology driven. We must have reasonable efficiency, although there are limits to how effective Norwegian agriculture can be under our circumstances. Then it becomes essential to deliver the collective goods, all the other important things, our landscape, that we want an inhabited country when we travel around, along with other important instruments of agricultural policy. There is alternative employment and business that is not about producing food, as well as the combination of tourism, absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e791	The President thinks it was wise to clarify this with the color!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e794	It was about food. And then it's about having a deficiency, we need to have competition, so that consumers can get cheaper food. Some days ago, on 23 September, Oslo Tingrett concluded in clear terms that the Ministry of Agriculture had not followed up the Storting's intentions on open and equivalent competition in the dairy sector. One of the co-founders' rights, including the Ministry of Agriculture's own experts, concluded that Synnove Find has paid too much for milk by having to pay for Tine's capital cost. It appears that the government attorney now assesses the verdict. It would be unfortunate if things got anchored and Synnove Find gets more releases to get a proper milk price. At least it won't be positive for competition. Will the Council of States state that he is now putting this matter to a dead end, so that Tines two competitors will be given greater security to bet on, for the benefit of consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e801	It is true that Oslo Tingrett has taken a decision stating that there has not been a proper setting of milk prices in the period 1997–2000. This government has established a completely new milking system that weighs the different factors in a very complicated milk pricing system, because milk goes to so very different uses, with very different profitability. An assessment of how to deal with the verdict that exists for this limited period, 1997–2000, will obviously have to be made by the Government with the Public Prosecutor. Everything else would be completely wrong. Then we will decide how this is to be handled. Independently, the Government continues its efforts to bring about good competition in the milk sector. It is under this government that we have put in place a milk scheme that is good for all the actors, who are fair, and who also opens up that small, new competitors can start up without quota, if they are ironing and processing themselves locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e808	We in SV are actually happy that we have an agricultural minister who has so much focus on food quality and not just on price. The fact that he's chosen to say that we're going to bet on niche production, we're going to bet on a more organic profile, we're going to bet on quality, and that's where we're going to compete, I think it's very important. There I want to commend the Minister of Agriculture, and I hope that he will continue in that track. So the Minister of Agriculture says he has a lot of tools in the toolbox, and we're also happy about that. But part of the tools of the Minister of Agriculture are so expensive. The Food Authority costs so much. There is no country in the world that has such expensive food supervision. And we know that there are many very small companies that are struggling to pay the bills that come from the Food Agency. They also struggle with the fact that the Food Safety Authority is very square. Can the Minister of Agriculture promise that food supervision will be more flexible, and can he promise that he will bring down the prices of that tool in the toolbox?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e815	The representative Ryan once again gives me the opportunity to get the important message that agriculture is much more than traditional volume production. There are many who meet this by saying that yes, yes, the niches are somewhat trifling, and it is now nice for them, but it is now large, heavy and heavy tractors and many cows and things that are important. It's also important, but we wouldn't have had a country that we're all happy with if we hadn't had all the different and diverse businesses. So today we've been served numbers: 19 000 annual works in non-traditional farms on Norwegian farms, that's what makes up diversity, and we need more of that. This is also about the success of more people in food production – and not other businesses, travel, experience production, care production, etc., and we need to make it even easier to do so. I believe it. I believe that rich, modern consumers are willing to pay more for specialized and exciting food. That's why we're rigging a farm like that. Now I was going to say that since the Ministry of Finance is not represented in the Chamber, I might have allowed myself to bring a budget leak. But then I discovered that the Prime Minister had come in, and then I did not dare. Otherwise it would have been a pleasant news I could have brought to the representative Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e822	It's a shame the Prime Minister was here. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e828	SV wants to mobilise until the next elections, because we believe there are important values that are at stake in Norwegian society and also internationally. One of the most important values that SV wants to put at the top is fair distribution, both internationally and nationally. The government's strategy to reduce poverty in both of these areas is, to put it nicely, very little reliable. The Government shall be commended for its commitment to development assistance and the increase there. On the other hand, the problem of increasing poverty internationally and the gap between poor and rich countries appears to be that the Government has no instruments against it. On the contrary, we see it again in the national tax policy, where the government says that there is a situation outside the world where we are pressured internationally by capitalists who want the tax to be the lowest possible, and if we don't give in to it, the jobs are pushed out of Norway. This is a real situation, but what do we do with it? What do we do with it when the poor people of the third world also sit in this saxa? In this respect, Norwegian policies should be systematic in building up the trade union movement, which may allow these countries to get out of the situation they are in. Norway’s history shows that there is a strong trade union movement that has resulted in a good distribution of Norwegian society and relatively few poor people. The Nordic distribution model has contributed to a positive spiral, with the gradual construction of individual power and good living conditions for all. Instead, we feel that the Government is critical, partly very critical, of the role of the trade union movement. I am very surprised that it knows so little about how, through organisation, it has managed to ensure a different distribution of resources, which has made it possible in Norway for the vast majority of people to provide for themselves through their work on wages and salaries, and through it could also contribute tax receipts to welfare schemes that make, for example, all children in Norway are entitled to attend school. We feel that the government's fiscal policy is helping to break down not only the foundations of the welfare state but also directly and mostly those who have the least. The government's policy, with special arrangements earmarked and tailored for the poorest, has, first of all, too little volume to balance for all the cuts made in central and important welfare schemes that were just about to save the living conditions for these. The second is that as a general strategy to rid people of poverty, nothing can be relied on in history that has shown that this has led to a reduction in poverty. On the contrary, there are good wage formation schemes, i.e. strong trade unions that are able to ensure good pay conditions, and a strong distribution policy, which is able to reduce poverty both in Norway and in other countries that also have a good distribution policy. So the government says that tax relief is necessary to create jobs. Unfortunately, there is no direct link between tax relief and job creation. On the other hand, there is a direct link between tax relief and poor local economy. And there's a direct link between the poor local economy and the growing poverty we see. So there's 8,000 more people now in social assistance than it was a year ago. Then it is difficult for SV to see that the government can be satisfied and say that it is going the right way, when there are more unemployed and more poor – if that was not the goal then, and I assume that it is not, because they say that it is something else. There is also a direct link between poor local economy and all the increased costs we see now in sick leave and disability. It is in the municipal sector that these costs are increasing. One reason for this is that the task of the local government sector is now to sit and find someone they can quit and something they can put down. There is no resources there to create a working environment that does not take health away from people and substantially increases social spending in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e839	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e842	Several thousand ID-less asylum seekers with rejection have now gone underground, either because they have been thrown out of reception, or because they are about to be. Very many of these are irreversible, that is, there's no place to send them. They do not have the right to either food or bed. Norway is now also criticised by the UN for this unworthy handling. The Labour Party believes that the work on these broadcasts needs to be intensified, but until we are again in control of the situation, the Labour Party believes that we need to set up special receptions to deal with the problems these people have, among other things. within psychiatry. But what the government answers is that now it will tighten up the municipalities, and that this is the responsibility of the municipalities. The Labour Party totally disagrees with this. This is the responsibility of the state, and it is the state that has to clean up. Is SV in agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e847	Yes, SV agrees that this is the responsibility of the state. This is a situation created by the government’s handling of rejected asylum seekers. SV fully understands that asylum seekers who have been refused will leave the country. But the problem is that the government hasn't started a device that makes it possible. In addition, they have taken food and roof over their heads away from those who have been rejected, including those who are not returnable. This means that even if the government had taken action to send them back to their country of origin, it would not have been possible to do so. Then it is SV's opinion that the government is responsible for ensuring that these people have food and shelter. If this has to happen in special reception, we don't know. But it is quite clear that a system must be put in place to ensure those who need psychiatric treatment, a treatment offer, whether they are now irreversible or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e854	Valuation is not among the concepts that the representative Karin Andersen most often resorts to in his political argument. Rather, it may seem that value creation is only to be understood as another word for tax increases. In any case, it is the impression when we sum up the many cost-intensive promises that SV makes as their wish list for any alternative government project. And the representative Karin Andersen did not shorten this list in his post. I would like to know briefly whether Karin Andersen is in agreement with Federal Head Jan Davidsen of the Trade Union, who recently stated that a new government of the Workers' Party, SV and, if necessary, of the Centre after the election of the Magnifying Party must increase taxes in order to ensure well-being. And it goes on to say: ‘Before the election next year, the centre/left alliance should clearly tell the voters that they are in favour of increased taxes if there is a red-green government.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e866	I'm sometimes a little surprised by some of the lines that come, and that the same thing obviously has to be said over and over again. There are several representatives from SV who have been up on the pulpit today and said that our starting point now is that there is no government option that has as its starting point to increase taxes. But the parties that have the tradition of increasing some taxes called prowess are the government parties. I expect that in a couple of days we'll see a government budget that's increasing those taxes again, and we know who's going to hit it. There are people with low incomes; many of them don't even have work, but must live on social security and social benefits. That tax increase I should have liked the Right too to worry a little bit more about. As far as value creation is concerned, I had a line earlier today where I called for a greater commitment to research, development and education. Because that's what can secure our future and make us have some jobs to live on in the future. It's not cutting and saving that can secure future for us, our children or grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e873	The representative Karin Andersen from SV represents a party that complains that unemployment is too high. However, SV is at the same time strongly opposed to tax relief, although tax relief may be absolutely necessary to secure and create new Norwegian jobs in order to reduce unemployment. Recently, we could read that several Norwegian companies are planning to move around 80 000 jobs to low-cost countries in the near future. At the same time, we see that more and more other countries are now harmonising and adapting the level of taxation. SV appears to be almost anti-business and may seem to be the most concerned to create the most jobs in the public sector. Then maybe my question after listening to the article by Karin Andersen is: does SV really have any policies to create jobs in the private sector, or is there mainly public jobs SV will create in the fight against unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e880	It is a pleasure to have the opportunity to say that the SV’s main strategy for value creation in the future is increased commitment to research, development and education. The jobs we're going to live on in the future are not created yet. We need to make sure that our business community is given the opportunity to research and to renew, in particular to be able to compete highly on knowledge, competence and technology. That is where we can compete, not at lower taxes and at low wages. We will lose that fight anyway, if you don't want Norway to become like a u-country where some people work for buttons and gloss pictures, and other people are stone rich. So Norway does not want that. So there are good alternative strategies that unfortunately the Progress Party is not particularly concerned about. The most important resource we have is humans, and then we have to have a school that's so good that not a single talent is lost, that not one creative soul that doesn't have a rich mother or father, is lost and not allowed to evolve. It's the most important and safest strategy that we have something to live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e887	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e890	Several speakers have been involved in the fight against crime in this persuasion debate. I hardly know of a debate in Stortinget that is more suitable for just discussing the fight against crime than the debate on the throne, mainly because it is very important and we are in a difficult situation. Everything is not black compared to the evolution of crime in Norway. We are low in relation to comparable countries in the Western world, but we have seen evidence of crime that should contribute most to increasing attention and increasing efforts in relation to crime. For the Workers' Party, it has been a matter of power – and that was the background to it being raised in this debate – just to show that this is about being able to have more thoughts in your head at once. I want to mention specifically two fields that I probably miss in many ways in Regerendinga's reinforced efforts in the fight against crime. The first is the classic prevention that is often forgotten about the issue of crime, that things are related. We need to focus on measures other than purely criminal law-enforcement measures, which we in Norway have been good at for many years. It is sad to see that many Norwegian municipalities actually balance their budgets with the measures that include: provide young people with offers other than those which can help create new criminal careers and which are, in fact, also an important prerequisite for the international forces pushing on in Norway in order to create quite serious crime in Norway. Poor municipalities are in many ways the best friend of crime – closed leisure clubs, poor child protection and municipalities which in many ways cannot afford to continue measures that are not immediately required by law and which should not be so, but which greatly contribute to the creation of the social security network that too many through history have actually contributed to Norway's keeping a very low level of crime. The second challenge we face in the fight against crime is to strengthen the criminal justice chain itself. I have to say that I am surprised that during this great period we have had so many debates around the criminal justice chain without the government having chosen to deliver in relation to this. It is obvious that the police in Norway are struggling with little resources, but it would be pointless if we now choose to take decisive and important steps in relation to the police without putting any effort on the other elements of the criminal justice chain. Then we'll have more cows. We live for a time under 10 pst. Of those who report rape in Norway, there is evidence of any conviction at the end of the criminal justice chain. Such a situation cannot exist for those women who are severely raped, and neither can we find ourselves in such a situation. That means that we need to strengthen the police, but we also need to greatly strengthen the entire criminal justice chain to ensure that you actually get a sentence at the end of such serious crimes. Under 10 pst. Thus, by the women who report rape in Norway, there is evidence of a second-end conviction. Nor, in the opinion of the Labour Party, can we live with a situation in which one actually now has 14 000 cases waiting in front of Norwegian courts. Half of them are criminal. And it's obvious that many of those who are waiting both for judgment and eventually, once they've got judgment, even on retribution, are among those we experience out there as repeaters who actually commit new, serious crime. In the view of the Labour Party, it is almost illogical to base the entire criminal justice policy on simply demanding stricter penalties, which we see the Progress Party is heading in any context, when we have so few final judges for as serious crimes as I have been in, and when you have to stand in line for such a long time in order to get a hearing in the courts. And finally, what has been the main strategy of the Workers' Party in relation to the criminal justice chain in the last two years: I very much regret that we have not managed to get through to doing anything in relation to the settlement queues in Norway. The fact that today, in relation to the criminal challenge we face, there are still more than 2,000 people in line – and many are standing there for a very long time – to get a response at all is a situation we cannot live with if we want to have an active attitude to and an increased commitment to combating serious crime. Here it's just to want the government to get more on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e901	Renewal, change and modernisation ensure the welfare of the future. The ability to solve tasks a little smarter tomorrow than today creates security for the good and comprehensive Community solutions, not just for us, but – most importantly – for those who come after us. An innovative and changeable public sector is the guarantee of a strong safety net for children and grandchildren. But modernisation is not just about the welfare of the future. Implementing changes now involving less permeability and more care, creates a safer and warmer society for today's elderly. Implementing changes now involving less permeability provides a basis for a better environment for school learning and for kindergarten space for everyone who wants it, now. It is not the impatience of the Cooperative Government to constantly find the best solutions that threaten the welfare community. No, it is the will and ability to turn all the stones into the pursuit of the best possible use of Community resources, which are good welfare policies in practice. That's taking our management role seriously. It is the standstill, refusal of change and the unwillingness to take the long-term challenges of the nation seriously that threaten the welfare society and the good Community solutions. It is the forces on the left that are involved in the elections to stand still, even reverse public sector reforms, which pose the threat to future well-being. We have to do the public problems with greater efficiency than we do today. The productivity of publicly funded service production needs to increase. Technical estimations for the municipal and county economy have estimated that the municipalities received less for the same money in 2003 than in the previous year. For this reason, the Government wishes, among other things, to: using competition to ensure that the resources available to us are made available to the greatest possible extent. It concerns tenders, user choices, response-driven financing and a new offensive competition policy. We have to work smarter, we have to find the best solutions. We need to get more and better services back for the money. The alternative is the reduction of well-being or strong tax consolidation, a tax consolidation that will weaken value creation and the basis for future well-being. This debate shows that the alternatives are becoming increasingly clear: current value creation options that ensure well-being, or a tax-added option that will weaken the basis for well-being, namely through reduced value creation. The co-operation administration will further develop a public sector that never leaves any doubt as to who the public sector is for – residents and businesses. The government will implement changes that will facilitate everyday life for citizens. We want a public sector to respond faster, to use a simpler language, and to operate more on the people's premises. The responsibility for national IT policy is now concentrated in the Ministry of Modernisation. Better and more coordinated use of IT will make contacts between citizens and businesses on the one hand and the public on the other easier and better adapted to the everyday life of the individual. Better use of services technologies will create a more efficient public sector. The IT used better will provide more time for nursing and less time in the office in home-based care. Why should not those who want it be notified by e-mail when the car is going for EU control? Why can't patients be notified by SMS when it suddenly becomes an hour off at the outpatient clinic? And why can't the removal message be delivered electronically instead on paper? Smarter use of technology will make everyday life easier for people most and for business. Smarter use of technology will contribute to reducing red tape – simply less permeability and more care.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e921	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e924	The Ministry of Modernisation’s website states that as a manager of the State’s employers’ responsibility, ‘the Ministry shall ensure an inclusive and stimulating staff policy’. The Ministry shall also be the ‘head’ of the conversion work in the country. At the same time, the government has put forward a number of proposals that have helped provoke those of us who are engaged in the rights of workers. Cooperation with employees does not seem to have a very high priority in this government. The negotiator in UHO, Arne Johannesen, earlier this year characterised the government's inclusive human resources policy as such – so these are not my words: there is reason to ask whether Morten Andreas Meyer's greatest example is history's greatest trade union breaker, the former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. I'm not going to ask questions about the role models of the Council of State, they're going to have to bear with him. On the other hand, I would like to have an answer to the following: Does the State Council Meyer believe that the Government is acting in an inclusive and stimulating way towards the employees? Do employees have an error in describing the Council of State's efforts? And does the Council of State think that cooperation with employees is an important contribution to the process of conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e933	In any important migration process, employees are important. This does not mean that any necessary change to modernise public Norway will meet the upsurge of organised in the country. As political leaders, it is our job to choose the solutions that are served by the citizens, but good cooperation with employees to implement the changes is, of course, necessary and desirable, and I attach great importance to this. But I also record that the reforms that the Workers' Party itself boasted of, and that some in the Workers' Party still boast, after they went out of government, are now transitions and changes that many workers' party people are taking away from. It seems a bit confusing if the Workers' Party has now really left the desire and the need for change, renewal, change and modernisation of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e940	When the Prime Minister refurbished the government earlier this year, a fresh minister of modernisation came in, and our expectations of improving efficiency in the public sector grew monthly. The new Council of State has identified itself as a champion of the effective use of ICT in public administration. He has done so, among others. by stating that he wants to bet on digital signature. We hope that the Council of State will benefit both the public and the private sector. The Progress Party proposed to the State budget for the current year an active commitment to digital signature, a micro-payment system, an electronic rights management framework. When can we expect the Council of State to have this in place, in an area where we are so few?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e949	I am pleased to support the Government's important work of using technology better in the work of making everyday life easier for most people. Digital signature work is at the top of my agenda, precisely because this work is so important in order to develop a wide range of digital services, make public services available 24 hours a day to the public and make public procedures simpler and more reasonable and avoided unless bureaucracy. We will be done with a common requirement specification for the public sector as a whole in relation to a safe and secure identification before Christmas, and we intend to find a solution that will enable us to distribute PKI solutions widely to Norwegian citizens in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e963	Governments and I have a totally different view of what separates the transformation into the public sector. It is clear that the economic situation of the municipalities shackles them, and it also frustrates local democracy. Competition outsourcing will be discussed more in the budget, but I come from the municipality of Norway, Moss, which has been most competitive in public services, and now has a deficit of 100 million. kr. What I wanted to ask the Council of State is that 82 pst. part-time work by newly-trained assistants and caregivers. The researchers who have looked at this have no doubt that the organisation of the care sector has helped to create this picture, and that the employer believes that organising the watch regimes can be an effective way. These developments accentuate women as low-paid and minimum-pensioners, but they also provide a situation for users who are extremely negative. Will the Council of State take this into consideration in its conversion work? And: What action will he take?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e970	The representative May Hansen confirms the impression that SV has one single solution to the challenges in the public sector, and that's putting more money on. But we have also documented through a number of studies that it is not that the challenges of the Municipality of Norway alone are solved by getting more money at the disposal of the Municipality of Norway. In fact, through the local authorities’ own efficiency networks, we have received relatively good evidence that smarter solutions implemented in some places allow citizens to obtain better and more extensive services with less resource use than in municipalities that use more. Then the representative May Hansen raises a question about part-time work, which is in particular a question for Kommune-Norway. In particular, it is Kommune-Norge who employs the professions mentioned by May Hansen, and I am a member of a strong local democracy where the municipalities as employers themselves have to largely decide how they organise the work, in cooperation with their employee groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e977	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e980	The Christian People's Party is busy securing human dignity from the beginning of life to natural death. We want to fundamentalize the right to life. We want to be a care party for those who are struggling. After the working party women have been asked to extend the limits of self-determined abortion to 16 weeks, we have a new abortion debate. Technologically, much has happened since abortion laws were introduced. We know a lot about whether the fetus is a few weeks old. Ultrasound allows us to see the fetus in full activity, a peak for most parents to experience when one is pregnant. After 12 weeks of pregnancy, the special reasons for granting abortion shall be: There are now mentions in different parts of the country that assess this, as proposed by the Labour Party when they introduced the current abortion law. It turns out that the practice of granting abortion is something different in these terms. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the laws are practiced as much as possible, and I am therefore pleased that the Government has started a work to ensure this. That the workers' partisans would rather have free abortion until 16 weeks and keep the denominator after 16 weeks, I do not understand. A general extension of the abortion limit will further weaken the legal protection of the unborn and increase the abortion pressure. The argument from the Labour Party on the right of self-determination for women is not valid. One should rather focus on what a do for women who get into a difficult and demanding situation. It is important that women do not become standing alone with difficult decisions. Those who learn that the child they expect has a disease can experience it as very difficult and demanding. It's important that we give these help and follow-up. For many, it is useful to meet other families who have children with the same disease. The Christian People's Party will work for those who have children with special needs to get one instance to contact and skip to run from office to office to find out what dishes they have and what help they can get. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government focuses on working to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion. The Ministry of Health has developed an action plan for this. Increased efforts in information on life, sexuality and prevention, including for women and couples with ethnic minority backgrounds, are important elements of the Government's action plan. For 2004, the State budget has raised just under € 21.6 million for the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion. In addition, the Amathea Foundation – formerly AAN, Alternative to abortion in Norway – receives SEK 14.5 million in social benefits for the current year. This is the highest sum allowed for this purpose. This is an important work. The main objective of the action plan is to reduce abortion rates. Work shall enhance respect for human dignity, promote well-being and counteract social inequality. The plan shall highlight challenges, focus and mention actions for achieving targets within six areas of action. The main target group is young people and young people in general, groups with a special risk of unwanted pregnancy, young people and young people with a background of ethnicity and women and couples assessing abortion. You can experience different challenges when you're pregnant. The Christian People's Party is concerned that working life should not discriminate against pregnant women. Some have experienced it; it has been visible through media lookups lately. This is not acceptable, and the Christian People's Party wants to grips with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e995	Norway is facing many important challenges in the years to come. One of the most important – perhaps the most important – is to facilitate growth, value creation and employment. The situation today is simply that we are failing in record low interest rates, high private consumption, high activity in the housing sector and record high oil prices are still struggling with over 100,000 unemployed. It should be a source of thought and cause for concern. Norway is a small country, with 4.5 million inhabitants, we have a long distance from the central markets, and we also have high wage costs. And of course, the last thing we're supposed to be proud of is that we're happy to have a high pay level. But then it is all the more important that the other weeks of the framework, such as. taxes are at least as favourable as in the countries with which we compete. They're not today. The global audit and advisory company Ernst & Young, in an investigation, has recently stated that Norway is in a state of stagnation when it comes to tax and tax levels. The study also shows that in the last four years, while our competitors have been reduced in taxes and taxes, tax and tax pressures have actually increased by 1 pst. in Norway. This means that over the last four years, the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises has actually deteriorated, with the consequences it offers in terms of closure, deflagration and risk of loss of additional jobs. Recently we could also read that our two large foreign ferry companies Color Line and Fjord Line are planning out flagging. 2 500 people are at risk of losing their jobs. 500 of these should have already been notified that they will lose their job. If flagging is carried out, it will also lead to a reduction in the demand from the fleet for Norwegian goods and services, and it will also lead to a deterioration in the marine environment and its living conditions. I thought it was shocking and unreal that the government and the majority of people passively stood and looked at this. I also note that there is a great deal of distance between words and action when the government claims that the solution should be reduced on a wide front. The flagging plans for ferries are simply an illustration of the fact that if Norwegian companies do not have the same framework conditions as competitors abroad, this will mean job losses and reduced value creation. It's not very convenient to run a hundred meters with a backpack if the competitors run without it. Therefore, it is decisive that the sum of the overall framework conditions in Norway is competitive in relation to the countries it is natural to compare us with. Infrastructure is also an important area for improving competitiveness. It provides added value both in the short term and in the long term. We still have vacant works that can build roads. Better road standards will reduce transport costs and it will also reduce road accidents. It's also a little bit weird that there's a requirement of 8 pst. real return on road investment before they are defined as profitable, when one at the same time concentrates on 4 pst. real return on equity investments abroad. Then it would be more sensible to place some of these funds in road construction in Norway, if this yields better returns than a risky share position. Seed capital is also important. There may be many good ideas that can develop into a commercial product if a provider provides resources for consultation. The future does not need to be completely black. If we take the right grips now, we can go a relatively bright future in a meeting. But if the framework conditions don't get better, I'm sorry, I'm afraid that the unemployment rates we have per year. today, in a few years, may fade as moderate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1013	No one should be in doubt: the fight against unemployment is the priority of this government. 1st@item: inlistbox Unemployment is wasted on resources, and unemployment must be reduced. It is therefore very satisfactory to see that the government's policy actually works. Nothing is as important as the company's framework conditions in the fight against unemployment. Neither will anyone put their hands out of work without profitable businesses. The majority of the 20 billion tax reliefs under this government have just been facilitated by corporate taxation. At the same time, the government's tight fiscal policy has contributed to historically low interest rates and a more competitive krone price. The September Aetat statistics show that the unemployment rate is now reduced to 90 000 full-time jobs, while at the same time it was 93 200 unemployed last year. In addition, the number of persons on ordinary labour market measures was reduced by 2 100. Even more important than this is that total employment has increased by 10,000. Work counteracts poverty. It is therefore worrying that the tax-sharpening options of the left-hand side involve tax increases in a number of areas. Increased taxation of persons will result in increased demands for pay supplements, which in turn weaken the profitability and competitiveness of businesses. Like impairments in corporate taxation, it means lower business profitability and fewer working hours. This government has invested in lower taxes for three years because it increases value creation. Increased value creation results in increased employment, which removes people from unemployment, thus ensuring well-being. And not least, it reduces poverty. Individuals are themselves responsible for finding a job and for their own professional career. However, it must be acknowledged that not everyone can master this alone, and they therefore need help, either from private intermediaries or from Aetat. I want to praise Aetat for the formidable effort the ethos makes for maximum employment and satisfied users. 70 pst. by all users at Aetat are now satisfied with their service. 80 pst. by all enterprises involved under Aetat are satisfied with the services provided. It's also worth mentioning that 90 pst. of all applications for daily allowances and return payments are now dealt with within two weeks. Another important point is that the number of sick leave in the department has declined markedly in the last year. I think this is an argument collection that rejects the blackness of the situation of the left-hand side and the NTL. A general admission to work temporarily for up to 12 months over a period of three years is a contribution to maximise the speed of work. Temporary employment will have a particular impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, where the risks of employment often lead to firms not being willing to expand when the possibility exists. Temporary employment facilitates the updating of experience and skills by people with weak links to the labour market. Experience has therefore shown that many temporary staff are offered permanent employment, either in the company in which they were temporarily employed or in others. It is the costs associated with the recruitment process, together with the benefit of investing in long-term training and training of employees, that the government parties do not believe that temporary employment will replace permanent employment. It is now high time to make the Norwegian labour market more flexible, including in the case of temporary employment. It's all about fighting unemployment on a broad front. In all, there are two main factors governing the Norwegian labour market. It is international economic cycles and Norwegian economic policies, including interest rates and exchange rates. From an economic and political point of view, the normal perception is that it takes about two years from the adoption of decisions until it turns into employment figures. This means that the increase in unemployment we have seen up to 2003 is largely generated by international trends and economic policies that were taken over by this government. It is in stark contrast to the outlook for the labour market we are now facing. Aetat's forecasts for 2005 are 80 000 entirely available. The value added option, which this government represents, has a policy that works. Businesses now look brighter in the future than in the long run, and plan to hire people, and record new companies become established. This gives one logical conclusion. If welfare is important, this government must continue its value-creating policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1034	I will go straight to the situation that is now in the Middle East -- 72 killed in Gaza in six days. At the same time, these abominable suicides continue against Israel. Suicide acts within Israel and rockets against Israel are blatant violations of the Geneva Convention and international law. The same thing, of course, is shooting rockets into as densely populated areas as Gaza. Planed and cold-blooded attacks on civilian and military actions that are known to affect civilians in advance cannot be tolerated by the international community. This becomes twice unacceptable when one knows that there is another solution, namely negotiations, so that the legitimate rights of both peoples can be respected. The Oslo agreement showed that such a road was possible. After the new terrorist threats against Norway, it must be clear, although it has not been before, that in Norway, as is the case for all our neighbouring countries and European countries, we cannot feel secure when large parts of the world live in insecurity. Europe can only become safer if people in its neighbourhoods and in the rest of the world are granted fundamental human rights, experience social development and live in countries capable of protecting the civilian population. The unfortunate thing for the world, in my opinion, is that there has been an alliance between Prime Minister Sharon, President Putin and President Bush that assumes that they are fighting the same enemy, without seeing that the terror of Beslan, the suicide attacks in Israel and the attacks on the World Trade Center have different backgrounds and must be met in different ways. This is how Russia, the United States and Israel lead themselves and the world into an ever worse devastation. We need a smarter strategy, to quote Presidential candidate John Kerry. US support for Prime Minister Sharon's policy is producing more terrorism. A smarter strategy would be to give the Palestinians hope of a Palestinian state, instead of crushing this hope every day. The infrastructure of the Palestinian authorities has been destroyed, the President of the Palestinians has been isolated for two years, as a result of which the rest of the Palestinian leadership is totally paralysed and the demise of action. Now warlords and extreme terrorist groups take over cities like Jenin and Qalqilya on the West Bank. In Gaza, it's chaos. In the West Bank and in Gaza there is a humanitarian disaster. Is this a good contribution to supporting moderate Muslim leaders and moderate attitudes in the Muslim world, which we need to fight terrorism? To my mind, no. I want to challenge the government to talk clearer. It should support the call for rapid elections in Palestine, such as: the Swedish and Finnish Governments have done so. Only in this way can new legitimacy be given to a Palestinian leadership. The government, as the United Kingdom is now doing, should help the same authorities build up the police forces so that they can take up the fight against the warlords and terrorist groups and regain control in the Palestinian territories. The Trontal stated that the Government will further develop NATO's cooperation with the EU. That is good, because nothing is more important for Norwegian security than the success of the EU in further developing its security policy dimension in cooperation with NATO, thus making the fight against terrorism wider and smarter. The problems of the Americans in Iraq confirm that modern military forces can be very effective in combating state opponents, but at the same time very little suitable for stabilising complex situations. The EU has long worked to build a broad security policy strategy, complementing military forces with civilian components such as police, law-enforcement experts, civil organisations, humanitarian efforts and long-term assistance. Above all, it is the EU that points to the need to resolve the underlying conflicts and problems through policies. We need to assess what is now happening in the relationship between the EU and NATO, in relation to the enlargement of the EU and in relation to the impact of the Constitutional Treaty on European policies. I believe it is imperative that the Government now presents its view to the Storing, so that we can discuss this fundamental development and put it into the security policy challenge that we now have, namely to combat terrorism. It has to be done in a smarter way, and then we need the European dimension of security policy. We have to ask ourselves: what can and should Norway contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1051	Increased value creation is a fundamental prerequisite for solving multiple welfare tasks and for maintaining the welfare services we already have. The government's policy, since it joined almost three years ago, is a coherent story of how conditions should be facilitated to increase value creation. We're looking at it in the area by area. In contrast to this policy, the opposition’s demand for the use of ever more money, more use of the oil fund, larger public budgets, higher taxes and taxes is being made. Contrary to the policies of the Right and the Government, which have led to lower interest rates, competitive krone prices and competitive business, the opposition's price is set at a rate which would lead to a continuation of high interest rates, excessive krone prices and a business that would be characterised by bankruptcy and deflagration. Our value creation policy stands for the added tax option of the left. Education and research are fundamental to achieving the necessary enhancement of value creation. There is a clear link between our strong commitment to school and education and the well-being development of the country as a whole. A good knowledge background provides individual new opportunities for the realisation of their own capabilities and facilities. We have more choices, and the individual can better participate in the overall welfare development of society. That is why we have invested in research. Only in 2004 was the research effort of DKK 13.8 billion, an increase of 1.1 billion from the previous year. It is therefore simply not right when Karin Andersen in a reply to Oddvard Nilsen claims that the Right and Government are not betting on research. That's not right! The right-hand side sees it as important to bet on the school. It is important to give the school the opportunity to make the best use of resources; it is important to open up the local space for action; it is important to focus more strongly on school content; and to focus less on packaging. The government has led a very active school policy, such as: St.meld. No 30 for 2003–2004 shows. Many cases show that there are strong ideological lines of distinction between the two government options. While today’s government is betting on local freedom for school and school owners and options for students and parents, the left-hand side’s alternative appears to be based on central government and public coercion. Let me show you some examples of that. The debate on fresh oils is an example. The left side went against the law of primary school, now it also goes against the corresponding law of secondary school. Where we want to give students and parents real choices based on quality, the left-hand side wants to limit the choice to their own preselected options. The government option has announced that some of the first thing that happens if they were to take over power after the next election is the abolition of the law on high school. May it never happen! Another example is the view of local freedom of action. We want as much local action space as possible. That's why we've lifted the class division, we've given the schools great freedom to organize the teaching ourselves, we've given teachers back the freedom of method, and the schools themselves can dispose of up to 25 pst. of the total number of hours. All these are measures that are in contrast to the call for national minimum standards and national leadership, and the wish that as much as possible be managed by the government and as much as possible by the school owner, school and individual teachers. A third example is the vision of knowledge. With this government and the measures implemented, the dissemination of knowledge has once again become the focus of attention. The school shall be a knowledge intermediary. In St.meld. No 30 emphasises the importance of the five basic skills: reading, writing, calculating, speaking and using digital tools. These are skills that are essential to enable individuals to build up their own skills and to create their own identities. Some have misunderstood this, or perhaps they would have misunderstood, so that it is presented as if the five basic skills are all the Government and the Council of State think the students should learn. No, this is the beginning, this is the basis for building skills and creating identity. For many years, everyone has expressed concern about the level of knowledge in Norwegian school. Everyone has expressed concern that too many teachers and teachers have had too little competence. Now something's going to be done with that. Requirements must be laid down for the teachers already on admission. That's good, and the debate around this, expressing concern that we're going to get too many students to take teacher training, becomes easily comical. Finally, the necessary steps are taken to improve the quality of teacher education and the higher skills of teachers and hence at school. There is a link between education and the work to increase value creation. These three years we've shown that we're really betting on school and education. We can't afford to stop this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1070	More than two billion people do not have access to modern forms of energy. This means that they have neither electric lights nor the possibility to operate modern machines. Renewable energy opens up the possibility of a reliable and clean energy supply, especially in scattered areas. A more sustainable energy supply is essential for combating poverty in the world and thus achieving the UN Millennium Development Goals. Increased investment in renewable energy sources is thus a question of power, especially for poor countries in the south, which can become more self-sufficient. Energy is a security policy. Several international experts believe that an oil crisis can come at any time. In an interview with The Guardian in June of this year, oil analyst Fadel Gheit pointed out that it would have dramatic consequences for the international oil price if terrorists, for example, were involved in oil production. would strike the oil terminal Ras Tanura in Saudi Arabia. When you can blow up the Pentagon on a bright day, you can also crash a plane into Ras Tanura, he claimed. Such a situation could lead to oil prices above twice what we've seen in recent years, with prices above $50. In 1996, Kåre Willoch proposed to limit the use of fossil fuels. One of his main arguments at the time was ‘to make the world less dependent on oil from unstable regions, for security reasons’. In such a perspective, ratification of the Kyoto Agreement would have an additional dimension for the United States, because it would have to mean measures to reduce emissions from the U.S. car fleet, which in turn would have helped to make the United States less dependent on the Middle East. But as we know, the United States has chosen a completely different strategy. There are few today who are so naive to believe that the invasion of Iraq was about getting rid of a brutal tyrant and the introduction of democracy and human rights. Weapons of Mass Destruction, ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction’, were rapidly approaching ‘Weapons of Mass Disappearance’. No, it was the control of the oil resources it was all about. And now the Kyoto agreement will come into force. Last week, the news came that Russia will now pay for WTO membership with a ratification of the Kyoto Agreement and will thus enter into force from 2008. This also increases the likelihood of higher fossil energy pricing, not only because of limited reserves and a production that in no way seems to keep pace with consumption growth in countries such as China and India, but also as a result of many countries trying to distort energy consumption in a more renewable direction through different allowances or charging schemes. CICERO recently reported that the temperature of the globe in July 2004 was 0.4 degrees above the global average. This makes the month the sixth hottest July the sides the measurements started in 1880. According to the European Environment Agency, EEA, Europe needs to adapt to climate change in order to prevent and reduce adverse impacts. More frequent and powerful storms, floods, droughts and other extreme weather phenomena, more precipitation in northern Europe and droughts in the south, more intense heat waves – there are some of the effects we can already see in Europe today as a result of global climate change, says the EEA in a comprehensive report presented in August. Although we don't know that the extreme amounts of rainfall with subsequent floods that have recently hit Trøndelag are due to global climate change, we know that this is something we'll get more of in the years to come. These long-term alerts are the basis for SV’s reluctance to invest in increasing fossil energy use in Norway. We are lucky to live in a country rich in renewable energy. Today, most of our power generation comes from hydropower, while at the same time we have a huge potential in relation to new renewable energy, such as wind power, bioenergy, small scale hydropower and energy recovery. According to the NVE, we can realise a production of 20 TWh by 2016 if a scheme of green certificates is introduced from 2006. That equals as much as 17 pst. of today’s Norwegian power generation in a normal year. Therefore, the response to future climate change and energy challenges is not gas power. It may also prove to be a very expensive affair, both for the builders and for the authorities. As we know, the price of gas also follows the international price of oil. SV therefore wants in Stortinget to pursue its commitments with the Government in the field of climate and gas policy. A responsible and long-term energy policy is renewable. It also applies if SV after the next choice takes up the government offices. SV is the environmental party in Norway and it is the voters in the elections who will determine the weight of the SV's responsible energy and climate policy line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1089	It is rare that so much skin is sold in as short a time as what has taken place in this room today, in particular taking into account that there is not even a harvest hunt. The head of the Labour Party declared that a strong majority government is better than a weak minority government. It's hard to disagree with him. But SV's leader swung to the very large heights and declared that it would be historic if the Center Party joined a socialist government as a junior partner. That's definitely true. But it has happened before the central parties have offered themselves on the market as government partners for the Workers' Party. There are not many big shots since it happened, and this led to the lot being put outside of Stortinget for quite a long time by the voters. It would also be historic if SV for the first time went into the government, said SV's leader, and it is also undeniably correct. It is quite obvious that the appetite for government power there has now grown to such an extent that you are willing to put practically the whole party program back in the closet to get permission to come in. SV has promised its voters during the current growing-up period that the lot will propose to notify Norway out of NATO. So far, we have not seen the turn of any such proposal, but there is still one year left of the ageing period. Two of the three partners in the enterprise, the Centre Party and the SV, have committed themselves in their programmes to cancel the EEA Agreement vis-à-vis their voters. Thorbjørn Jagland made an interesting post about the Middle East a moment ago, but he forgot to mention that the Workers' Party's future government partner SV has a proposal in the Foreign Affairs Committee at the moment of unilateral boycott of Israel. It might have been interesting to hear Jagland's comment on it. The historical part of the project is that for the first time in Norwegian history we are in the situation that some can imagine a coalition government where the three coalition parties fundamentally disagree on almost all things in Norwegian foreign policy. I listened with great interest to Kristin Halvorsen's reply in the line change when Carl I. Hagen asked her to indicate what is SV's alternative when it comes to e.g. the crisis in Iraq. Her answer was chemically free of content. The only thing she was able to get up with was a reference to the fact that it is not even certain that the UN is particularly credible in how to resolve the crisis in Iraq. There are not many options to choose from in terms of what Norway is going to contribute to stabilising conditions in the most combustible area of the world at the moment. It would be desirable if the three parties who wish to make their way forward as those who are to take the course for Norway after 2005 were able to tell the voters at least a little bit about what they want to achieve. So far, I've only heard one thing they're really on the verge of, and it's vital to them that all the people in this country are taxed high enough. In that area, they agree with the heart, and there's reason to believe them in that they can manage to do just that. Today, even the main sponsor of the project wants to go out and promise the voters tax increases. It's never been necessary before, you've managed to do it without promising it in advance. The last time the Workers' Party ruled alone, they managed 12 billion in a very short time. Now, if the three are going to lift in flocks, yes, you shouldn't have to have a very good imagination to see what you can do to pay off the tax promises of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1109	It could be exciting to give some political comments and characteristics after the previous article. I'm going to save myself for that, but it's still exciting to see which dom the Left is going to get at the next election. However, I want to take advantage of the time I have at my disposal here today, to talk about some issues that I perceive is central to the coming year. The first is the police reform. When the police reform was adopted in Stortinget, it was based on the idea that the police would become more visible and public. As time has passed, despite the wishes of the Storting, the police have become more and more invisible. Yes, in West Agder they have actually become so invisible that civil protection has been established in some parts of the county, with the blessing of the gentleman. Of course, we can't accept that. It is totally unacceptable and must be seized. In conversations with the police, I have come to understand that it is not the reform itself that creates the problems for the police, but the lack of a financial framework. The Minister of Justice must follow up these signals. I assume that in 2005, the government will provide funds to the police, which means a promise, so that in the future we will avoid people losing faith in the police and taking the law into their own hands. The next thing I want to talk about is the hospital reform. In the view of the Labour Party, the hospital reform should lead to better coordination and exploitation of resources, i.e. more health for each krona. We would strengthen the foundations of the smaller local hospitals, thus providing better emergency preparedness. It hasn't been like that. The Agder states are constantly talking about hospital closures, centralisation and economic challenges. Until now, the Ministry of Health has been governed by an opponent of the reform. In that context, there may be no other way to expect than that it will fail. But we have hopes and expectations that the Minister of Health and Health Ansgar Gabrielsen in the budget and the work in the future will ensure that hospitals get funds to enable them to operate professionally and in accordance with the wishes of Stortinget. So for transportation: good communication opportunities are a prerequisite for growth in a region. Over the years, western parts of West Agder have been characterized by stagnation and decline in the population. The western part of West Agder depends entirely on getting better communication opportunities. The list package adopted by the Stortinget is an important contribution to making this region more competitive. Everything really facilitates future growth in the region. I assume that the government will follow up, so that the whole region can now be exploited as one living and working area. The government is responsible for the whole Lister package being followed up, not piecefully and split. Several reforms were adopted before the Bondevik government took over, and reforms need to be made if we are to do things differently and in a better way. That a conservative government is not reformist, none of us wonder. However, there should be a requirement for it to follow up the reforms adopted in the light of its intention. It's about political will. Then it's not enough just to say hallelujah. Then one actually has to do something as well. Such a debate as we have had today is really very interesting for a social democrat. Because when one listens well to the debate, all of us here in the Chamber are social democrats, in the sense that in the distribution policy all are socialists, and as democrats are all fighting for election. But I want to say especially to the last three representatives who have been up here from the Right, that I actually don't think people believe in them anymore. People have seen the course, and now we have to get a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1135	In the census, it was, among other things, said: ‘An active district policy shall be continued and renewed.’; It should sound like sweet music, but unfortunately it doesn't quite. The way it is now, we don't see much of an active district policy. So the hope lies in the last part of the sentence, that district policy will be renewed. Here are the challenges. For me, it's natural to start with protection. The centre party has long argued that sustainable use is the best form of protection. This government's assets have been very large. It has been so large that it is protected without funds for administration, care and compensation. Now the Center Party has arranged for a so-called "defense break" and has actually reaped many praises for that very thing. The reason is natural enough that many around the districts feel both the frame and the lamb of extensive protective provisions. There has been a cross-political interest in the increased use of protection areas. The revised budget for 2003 had its own mention of use, protection and value creation in mountain areas. The government paid particular attention to increased tourism opportunities. Reference was also made to the need for a better link between protection areas and surrounding communities and settlement. The government has put in place a few concrete measures, except to remove the ban on commercial activities in national parks. So it's a long way to go until it becomes an asset for the districts to acquire large protection areas of different types. Let me give you an example from my own county and the Dovre municipality. At the very edge of the national park lies Snøheim, an old tourist cottage, otherwise quite unique in design. The current cabin was built in 1952, but there has been a cabin there since 1888. To the cabin there goes a summer open tomb road. ==References== 7 000 cars use this road every year. But now it's over, because the cabin has to be demolished, and the road has to be removed because it doesn't fit into a national park. Understand the one who can. The point can't be to pretend that there hasn't been human activity here? So these are cultural memories, too? I can see that roads should not be built everywhere, but here we are talking about an existing road and about many people who get great outdoor and outdoor experiences. We are also talking about a decision that is very far from what the local people want. Perhaps this is a small challenge for the Government in the years of outdoor life? So a little bit about energy, and let me start with bioenergy. We're using too little of that. Total Norwegian production from bioenergy is approx. 16 TWh, while Swedish production is 100 TWh. The background that we've used so little, has of course been cheap electricity. In Sweden, they have had different means of swinging this production. It's also needed here. I am aware that the Ministry of Agriculture will now provide production support for some pilot projects, and that is good. However, other instruments are also needed to create a market, such as: VAT exemptions. The center party will come back to this. In addition to the fact that bioenergy is beneficial for the environment, there are also very many workplaces. NoBio believes that an increase of 10 TWh by 2015 can provide 4 000 new jobs, well needed in the districts. With regard to the use of gas, the Central Party believes that it is important that more of the gas be used in our own country. These resources shall contribute to value creation and employment and must be managed in a long-term perspective. There is now a lot of interesting development work to catch and clean CO2 and find ways to exploit the CO2 gas. Here, perhaps soon, a breakthrough can make it easier to use gas for industrial activities without unacceptable large climate emissions. It was nice to hear the Minister for the Environment's comments here today. I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment, in his contribution, had a clear emphasis on climate policy and a reference to our global responsibility and to the Kyoto agreement, for those commitments must be followed up. We can never run from climate problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1163	The representative of the SV, May Hansen, claimed earlier this evening that the government has not been involved in child and family policy. Then I think the representative Hansen must be the victim of selective oblivion, and therefore I would like to remind her that the Government has presented to the Stortinget and received a broad majority of a big message on family policy, on children and young people's growing-up conditions, on a new and better child protection and family protection, an action plan to combat poverty and child care reform. All of this and more, the Government has received broad support from the Stortinget, including support from SV. It has been and is a huge effort by the Government in all the areas that the representative Hansen is calling for or claiming that the government has not done anything about. Not least, the government has pursued an economic policy that has contributed to low interest rates and crown prices, which has created optimism in business and more jobs, and has given families a more liberal economy. This provides the very basis for maintaining the welfare systems we have and for meeting new welfare needs. What was the situation three years ago when the Cooperative Government took over after Stoltenberg? Well, we were in a situation of high interest rates and high interest rates, with closures of businesses and jobs and lost tax revenue. This perilous situation has been reversed by the Government through a responsible economic policy adapted to reality. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are of the opinion that the more we pay in taxes, the more well-being it becomes. But the truth is, of course, another. Taxes and charges are high in Norway and it will create problems for businesses and jobs if they become even higher. The result may be that even more jobs are moved out of the country and that the country receives less income. Thus, there will be less money for welfare, less for schools and culture, for care for the elderly, for kindergartens, child protection and family protection, for hospitals and for combating poverty. The main objective of the right is to ensure people's well-being. We want to change and modernise the public sector because we know that stamina, as the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre want it, is a threat to well-being. We want to adapt to a new reality. This job is being done by the Government and the Minister of Modernization. And the government's policy works. That's maybe what's so painful and annoying for the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. We see that investment is progressing. The export has taken place, and several have come to work. The right takes the welfare challenges seriously! We launch new solutions adapted to new times where the left-hand side calls for more solutions from the past. The tax-increase option – Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre Party – therefore considers that there is a contrast between increased well-being and lower taxes and taxes. But this government has proved that it is not. Let me give you some examples. The waiting time for the hospitals has been reduced by 20pst.More money has been allocated for the treatment of cancer.It is allocated $2 billion to follow the action plan to combat poverty.The focus on kindergartens and psychiatry has doubled since 2001. Major reforms have been put in place in the school sector. All of this and much more has been done by the Government, while we have cut taxes and taxes by almost 20 billion kroner. It shows that there is no choice between welfare on the one hand and tax relief on the other. Well-being depends on a viable business life, which in turn depends on a level of taxation that can provide profitable operation in Norway. The tax credits have lost a very important point: in order to share a cake, the cake must be baked. Therefore, a responsible economic policy, as governed by the Government, is a prerequisite for increased well-being. At the next fall, we face two clear government options: the tax increase option and the value creation option – Right, Christian People's Party and Left. There's a lot that separates these two options, not least in view of how we're going to meet the future. The main challenges we face are a major globalisation and a change in the composition of the population, where there is an increasing age in relation to the proportion of working age. On the right, these challenges will meet with increased value creation, optimism and modernisation of the public sector. We will create more to exploit the opportunities offered by globalisation, technological development and the knowledge society. Because it's just by creating more that we can ensure the welfare of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1201	As responsible for the School Policy of the Advance Party, I am pleased to record the signals of the Trinity about school. ‘Government will improve the quality of education, health care and care for the elderly’ is mentioned at the head of the Government’s Declaration of Work. In addition, it says: ‘The government will continue to strengthen initial training through skills enhancement, new curricula, increased hours and efforts for a good learning and working environment for pupils and teachers’. No one in this room will disagree with such objectives and wishes. This government has implemented important and necessary changes in Norwegian school and has done so in cooperation with the Progress Party. I mention that the Education Committee will probably give its opinion on Ot.prp tomorrow. No 64 for 2003–04, where the law is likely to be extended to secondary schools. It will now be easier and easier to establish secondary schools. Again, an important school policy step is being taken in favour of the students in cooperation between the government parties and the Progress Party. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that many challenges and many tasks remain that need to be solved in order to bring Norwegian school up to the place we should and should have, a school that is among the best in the world. If the government delivers money and measures to follow up its good intentions to strengthen initial training, we only know when the budget comes. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we would like to stress that not everything is about money. On the part of the Progress Party, we hope that the Government through the part of the State budget will show that it will, among other things. takes the trouble in Norwegian school seriously. Two years ago, Prime Minister and Minister of Education declared war on bullying. The result of the war is predictable enough that Norwegian students are still struggling with a major bullying problem. Therefore, the work must not only be ‘continued to be prioritised’, as stated in the Government’s throne, it must be reinforced. Equally important are measures to combat the unrest in Norwegian school, the widespread turmoil that also characterises the day-to-day schooling of Norwegian school students, and which places Norwegian school as Europe’s second worst in terms of unrest. The Progress Party hopes the Government will clearly show that it is now concerned about this challenge and that it now also has a plan. The government is good at school with plans, with action packages and strategies. The Progress Party hopes that it will now demonstrate its capacity to provide students with a learning and working environment that is less troubled and thus provides students with better opportunities for learning. Over the last few years, many experts have stressed that the prescription of the Advance Party provides effective medicine. Good discipline in school is important, and good discipline gives good learning results. Yes, in fact, when asked, the students themselves say that they want teachers who are clearer adult leaders, and who act faster and more stringently against those who are disturbing the daily work of the school. The Progress Party hopes the Government will share the desire of the Advance Party to get the discipline and thus also the rest of the work back to school. In the front of the prestigious priorities, it is also stated that ‘the Government attaches great importance to freedom of choice’. The Progress Party shares this view and believes it must also apply within the school area. Therefore, it is disappointing that the Government does not mention the difficult situation in public high school. The framework of the counties does not cover the demand for places. The freedom of choice by the student taking state school money directly to where he or she will be a student is used in private schools. Why not use the same recipe in public school? Why not give students freedom of choice, as the Advance Party's unit price financing for all schools and all students provides? With the many important changes that have been made and will be implemented in primary school, it is important to keep parents on the team. For the Progress Party, parents are the main partner of the school. We are committed to strengthening parental participation and giving parental management power in school. On behalf of the Advancement Party, I hope the Government has learned from the treatment of St. report. No 30 for 2003–04, how incomprehensible proposals to reduce parental influence were stopped by the Stortinget. The Progress Party has made a number of proposals to improve parental influence and control in schools, but so far they have also been rejected by the government parties. We hope the Government's attitude towards the students' parents is changing. Last but not least: a good learning and working environment for students and teachers requires good construction. In the municipality of Bergen, the maintenance plan shows that half of the building mass in the schools is considered to be of little benefit. We can't build the world's best school with bad school buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1238	It's approaching the end of the throne debate, but I'm not going to try to sum up. The fact that the opposition parties are now trying to appear more united than there is a real basis for this is not surprising. However, it has not been difficult to record significant gaps in policy, both in terms of foreign policy, environmental policy and energy policy, to mention something. So they face challenging times. We're now going to see what that can lead to. Many speakers have addressed issues at the intersection of value creation and welfare development. Both are central to the political debate and to a relationship of interdependence. The development of the Norwegian economy is good. With lower interest rates, a weaker dollar rate and stronger growth in the international economy, the prospects for the competitive industries have improved significantly. We've had good help with international economics, it's to be admitted. But we also have every reason to be satisfied with the sober line chosen by government and alternate cooperating parties in the Stortinget. Now we see concrete results from a responsible fiscal policy. We have to take care of this. However, there is no lack of challenges to the expenditure side of the budget, which we will probably record already on Wednesday. Of course, the temptation is overwhelming for an increased use of money that could ruin positive developments in the future. The main challenge, as the Christian People's Party sees it, is to ensure that the well-being of all the country's inhabitants benefits, including those who depend on the help of the great society to cope. It also means that we, who are already well in it, have to be prepared to do something more in order to achieve a fair distribution where weak groups are also ensured. It is the policy's main task to respond to what we want with our wealth and with the opportunities opened up by using the country's resources and the skills acquired in the workforce. It is timely today to call for a deregulation of capital markets and a reduction of both state borders, welfare schemes and social obligations. This may well serve the strong participations, but not the political goals of the Christian People's Party. In the book The Commanding Heights, Daniel Yergin and Joseph Stanislaw discuss the future of the market economy. What's interesting is that these economists are going counter-current. They claim that if the market economy is to be passed on and accepted and supported by the people through democratic elections, it must not only succeed in giving the owners good returns on invested capital. It must also provide jobs, distribute value creation and take the necessary environmental considerations into account. The Christian People's Party considers it essential to manage capital flows and resources so that we have an acceptable distribution of value creation, that we ensure employment and combat unemployment and build industrial policy on sustainable principles. The challenges of industrial policy in the future are diverse. We need to strengthen the economically weak parts of our country, and I would like this to receive a renewed attention. But we also need to exploit the resource-rich and growth-rich regions that could act as a dynamo for further growth in the country, too. The Western region is currently one of the most resource-rich regions in Europe and also represents the heaviest export region in Norway. The marine sector, maritime sector, energy and petroleum clusters are very strong in the West. There is now a very interesting regional impetus in the West to coordinate initiatives and facilitate the development of networks in innovation. I believe it must be a priority task for government and growth to support such regional initiatives that exploit the synergies that arise from better coordination of competences, capital and resources that otherwise exist in the region. It provides the best possible opportunity for concrete, positive results in industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1262	It was with a little anticipation I listened to the post from the councillor Børge Burnde. I expected a new offensive businessman with ideas for Norwegian business. It is possible that he is not yet warm in the sweater, for here it was not much new. Innovation Norway has now been active for nine months. They have gained some experience in how the organisation should work, and thus we could have got some signals on how to continue to bet. But neither in the post of the Council of State nor in the replies to the replies, we got some signals. Innovation Norway has, among other things: responsibilities for travel life – an industry that is intended to grow enormously in the coming years. Even today, travel is the world’s greatest industry. The World Tourism Organization has estimated that the total turnover in the tourism industry in 2005 will be $960 billion, while in 1996 it was about $8 billion. $400 billion. It would be exciting to hear if the Norwegian Council of State for Tourism had some thoughts about how we can share in this increase. Norway has a product profile that is both very varied and different from that of most European countries: cold, dark, wildness, violent contrasts and a fascinating cultural history make Norway unique and exciting. But we have to pass this on to the rest of the world. Several international trends suggest that Norway has the potential to win market shares in the future – if we rate. We can win in international competition, not for cheap stays, but for exciting stays. We can, as the Council of State said, put into practice the ‘priority of Norway’. Then we keep jobs in Norway, and we develop more, for a population with the potential to develop exciting products across the country. We are waiting for the Government to be more active in exciting areas with many opportunities for exciting jobs. It is not possible to flag out these workplaces either. They create the values where they are, and they give, as the Council of State said, "crowns out of knowledge." In this context, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Agriculture and Food who, in his speech, was much more optimistic and creative. In particular, it is gratifying that the efforts made by both the government of Stoltenberg and the current government in relation to new agricultural products have been made. This shows that by investing in optimism and creativity and using the new tools available, new jobs can be created. I am also convinced that many of these are jobs that will affect travel life in Norway. It is important to have a living farm that can keep Norway open and alive. A downgrown and lifeless Building Norway is not a pleasant destination – neither for us who live here, nor for tourists from other countries. Yes, jobs are created in Norway, but some disappear from the country as well. Not in all areas is it possible to compete, and we can't do that in terms of pay. We were in the Czech Republic last week and were told that the salary is 1/10 of the salary level in Norway. But we can compete on other things, and that's how a company is going to evolve, change, and product development is going to happen, those who know the product and the production line must be involved in that development. Many business owners have experienced that it is from those on the floor that the ideas for change have come, if they are allowed to join. Then there is one thing that concerns me as a representative from Akershus and the central eastern region, namely that this is an area that is essentially not able to benefit from the tools that are currently available in Innovation Norway. Yes, regional development is important, but we must not forget the key areas either. The urban areas around our big cities have environments that are important in research and development also for the districts. Several district jobs are also being developed there. That is why the whole country must be seen in the context, and we must not have too strict borders between the regions. I believe in more flexible schemes, where the instruments can be used across regional borders, but for example. within the industries. We need to look closely at how the regional seed funds will operate in relation to, for example, country-wide funds, which are now in demand in the business world. I expect the government to have a review of the cereal regime in the coming state budget. So, finally, a little visit to the representative Bastisen. It is not such that the animal protection law applies only to four-legged animals or birds with feathers. Fish are also animals. This has been confirmed by the Storting in the Animal Protection Notice, and in the message that we addressed. So it's a majority in the Big City that's behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1294	The three opposition parties that dream of establishing a new socialist government have tried to turn the debate into an open seminar. We've had a little bit of a taste of what we're waiting for if the parties were to succeed. The Workers' Party will not hear of SV's foreign policy or the SV's economic policy, while the Centre Party will have a period of protection and will not hear of either the Workers' Party's environmental policy or the SV's environmental policy. The EU policy of the Workers' Party will neither be heard by the Centre Party nor by SV. I do not take much wrong when I assume that neither the representative Olav Aksensen nor the representative Sylvia Brustad will hear about SV's energy policy with civil disobedience to both oil drilling and gas power plants. It's on quite fundamental issues that the three socialist parties put ultimatum to each other. It's going to be interesting to follow this on. The Government of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left are well-informed with important reforms to create greater freedom of choice for individuals and families, to ensure our children a better school, to create a more modern and accessible public sector and to ensure well-being. But most importantly, we have been given the order of the Norwegian economy. Economic policy gains recognition far beyond the borders of Norway. There are many examples of countries that have not managed to manage their wealth. We are in the process of succeeding by building up the future pension fund. The Norwegian economy has a soft landing. Now economic growth is increasing, new businesses are being set up, and more people are going to work. Optimism is back. In this debate, too, we have heard that the Government should have no policy on value creation or any industrial policy. But it's the results that count! It's the results of the policy that decide, and we see that we have succeeded. If we are to secure well-being, we must ensure value creation. After all, value creation is the very foundation of well-being. When we lower taxes, it contributes to each family retaining more of their own income. This will enable us to create security and well-being for ourselves and their own. When we lower taxes, businesses get better framework conditions. It increases value creation, and thus we get a better foundation to safeguard well-being. Both the representative Kristin Halvorsen and the representative Jens Stoltenberg say that we must choose between lower taxes and better well-being. This government has shown that over three years it has been able both to lower taxes and to ensure well-being. In fact, lower taxes provide a basis for better well-being. I hear that sometimes it is said that we can't afford to give tax relief. Has Kristin Halvorsen and Jens Stoltenberg ever asked ordinary people who pay too much taxes, if they can afford to pay so much taxes? Or have you ever asked companies that are struggling to get the wheels to go around, if they can afford to pay as much tax as they actually do? The reality is that we need to continue a policy of lower taxes in order to secure well-being. Now I hear that the hooks from both the SV and the Workers' Party murmur that the level of taxation that you have fought against throughout this period is really quite OK. Can we trust that one will stand by such a promise? Have we not heard before that the Labour Party has said that we have reached the ceiling on taxes and taxes? Only during this period has the Workers' Party broken its promise in the security, which meant that the top tax should be adjusted every year. During this period, the Labour Party has said that you should not increase taxes, but you have done it anyway. What comes out of the fact that the tax increases suddenly seem to be the level of tax you were completely against a few months ago, all of a sudden it's OK? And perhaps even more important: what kind of spending proposals are there SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party going to go away? If it is true that the Workers' Party believes that the tax level is actually quite OK, while one year ago they would have a tax level of 4-5 billion kroner higher, that means that the Workers' Party must cut its own budget by 4-5 billion kroner. If it is that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre are now going to focus on a more responsible tax policy, it means that it cannot drain billions every time opposition politicians open their mouths.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1314	It's the value creation that guarantees well-being, said Sanner. Yeah, that's right. But the Right is wrong when they claim that tax relief is the key to value creation. What distinguishes Norway and the other Nordic countries from most other countries is that we have a higher level of well-being, that a greater proportion of the population is at work, and that we have a higher level of taxation. The government has promised a new DKK 16 billion in tax relief, although the Prime Minister has said that tax relief is not the main priority. It is primarily in terms of personal taxation that this is to come. There is good growth in the Norwegian economy, as Sanner said, but it is largely consumer driven. Thus, there is no Norwegian economy situation that further stimulates consumption through new tax reliefs. On the other hand, there is a serious lack of money where welfare services are provided, namely in municipalities. This did not affect Mr. Sanner in his post, so he obviously does not care about the huge gap between income and the expenditure that the municipalities are now struggling with when they are going to create budgets for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1323	It is a rather interesting claim from the Workers' Party that lower taxes are not important to our companies. We are actually living in a globalised world where we know that businesses are also looking at the level of taxation when they are going to establish themselves in a country, or when they are going to decide whether to develop their business further. Over the last few years, we have the power to bring the tax rate down. This means that we have become a more competitive country for investment. We have now announced a tax reform involving a new capital tax through a gradual phasing out of the property tax and through the introduction of the so-called shareholder model. This will help further improve the framework conditions for business. In addition, we believe it is important to reduce marginal taxes on work, so that it is worth working again, and so that we can remove the sharing model, which many small and medium-sized enterprises have been struggling with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1330	First, I want to say that I agree entirely with the representative Jan Tore Sanner that lowering taxes and improving the framework is, of course, absolutely crucial in order to achieve a good value creation and employment, and in order to keep the jobs you have, and create new ones. In the past, we have heard that Jan Tore Sanner has argued that the most important thing to achieve employment and growth in the economy is to maintain a tight fiscal policy. Now we actually have the situation today that we have 100,000 unemployed. We have a record low price rise. We have numbers from the SSB that show that last year we got 8 000 new social clients. Then my question is: does it not show that the fiscal policy that has been pursued has been too defensive and should be more offensive in terms of more tax havens and also more investment in infrastructure to strengthen the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1337	I can probably agree with Gjermund Hageseter in a lot, but with regard to financial policy, we are obviously still fundamentally in disagreement. Now we've actually seen the policy we've been pursuing work. Just by pursuing a tight fiscal policy, we've got interest rates down by 5 pst. It means for a family that you're releasing almost $50,000 if you have a debt of 1.5 million. kr. We've got a more competitive crown price, and it's absolutely crucial for the export-oriented business. In fact, the crown has now weakened by 10-12 pst. in relation to the euro. This means that the margin for companies competing with the rest of Europe has become 10-12 pst. Better. This means that you have the opportunity to secure the workplace. This means that there is a possibility of gradually expanding and establishing new jobs. But what we've learned from experience is that it takes some time from the growth to the new jobs. But now we see that more businesses are established, and we also see that unemployment is going to decrease gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1344	I had the pleasure of being in a debate with Kåre Willoch in Bergen last week, where he called for a value-based conservatism. It is a message that often stands in quite sharp contrast to today's Right, which goes to elections with vulgar slogans like: More left for money – and seems to have it turned on every single penny as its most important mission in politics. In the period we're in now, the Right has shown a reluctance to do something about galloping leadership wages. There have been further reliefs in capital taxation, and there is constant confidence in the market as a problem-solver – that is to say, contrary to what is at the heart of Willoch's message. He writes in the Evening Post in August: «Today we see decay in the form of predatory capitalism and greed culture in capitalist economies.» He is afraid that this will undermine the confidence of capitalism. Now there's something that wouldn't worry me so much, but it would certainly worry Sanner more, and I wonder if he agrees that our time is marked by predatory capitalism and greed culture in capitalist economies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1356	There is no doubt that capitalism and the market economy also need to be curbed. There are no conservatives who have questioned it. On the other hand, we have learned that the market economy is a much better economic system than the planned economy. But the market economy presupposes that we have institutions and legislation that ensures that we have good rules of play. That is why we have also strengthened competition law. The right also wants Norway to become a member of the EU. Because it is now that in our globalised age there are some decisions that need to be taken at a transnational level. And if we're going to be able to deal with some of the questions that I know Bjørlo Lysbakken is concerned about, we have to use supranationality. There are small countries with an open economy that become most vulnerable without willingness to use supranational bodies. Finally, Bjørlo Lysbakken also had an interesting article in the class struggle today, and I registered that he wanted visions on the left. So it's going to be exciting to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1365	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1368	I sat in my living room the other day and swatted between the different TV channels. Suddenly I got into the NRK, and there was Carl I. Hagen's face to me just in what he said Norway is the richest country in the world. And then he added, we have a profit of 500,000 million. kr. Then he concluded that therefore we can afford to buy the best equipment for aviation safety that can be purchased. It was the day after an asylum seeker went crazy in an airplane. It reminded me of a similar horrifying event. one year before. I swung between the TV channels, and suddenly Carl I. Hagen was inside the NRK and said: Norway is the richest country in the world, and therefore we can afford to buy new passports for all the citizens of Norway during the current year. I calculated quickly that it would cost approx. One billion kroner, but it was the day after a policeman said on TV that the old passports were easy to falsify, and that they needed new passports. And then today I thought that I had to follow up on the throne debate. I sat in my office, turned on the TV, and there I ended up in the middle of Hagen's posts, trying to explain to the representative Stoltenberg that Norway was the world's richest country, and he said it was not right as the representative Stoltenberg said, that if we increased a cost, we also had to reduce another expense item accordingly. It's possible that two plus two is going to be four in most other countries in the world, but Norway is the world's richest country, so here this didn't go up this way. It was just taking a little bit of the surplus of 500,000 million. kr, then all the problems were solved. Maybe Mr. Hagen is a little bit right. I don't think the Norwegian economy is going to be ruined even if you increase the amount of the minimum pensioners. I don't think Norway's economy is going to be ruined if you strengthen the police and spend some of this money. But if you use this surplus to increase the minimum pension and strengthen the police and strengthen the school and build more roads and strengthen the health care system and give all the Nordics a new passport and strengthen aviation safety, then I think we have a problem. Because I still think that's what my childhood teacher told me, in fact, that politics is at last a priority. It's too simple to say that Norway is the richest country in the world. The representative, Carl I. Hagen, has presented a proposal today to introduce a closed asylum system. The proposal is complex and difficult to understand, but I would like to interpret it in such a way that he believes that asylum-seekers who have been refused their applications should have closed their asylum-seekers. And then I have to ask the following question: what makes the representative Carl I. Hagen think this is such an excellent proposal? Does he really think that an international terrorist who wants to come to Norway is waiting for him to have his asylum application rejected before he blows up? Or does he think that an asylum seeker who has come to Norway because he wants to emigrate as an illegal immigrant is waiting for him to be denied asylum before he disappears from the reception? Is it possible that the representative Carl I. Hagen, with this proposal – it can also be interpreted as such – believes that some dangerous asylum seekers should also live in closed receptions? He's been in favour of that in the past. But how on earth can the representative Hagen or anyone else know who is a dangerous asylum seeker before he proves it by attacking someone? And then it's usually too late. I have therefore allowed myself today to present to Stortinget's office a Document No. Eight proposals, a private proposal based on a system of closed reception camps, of course with a high level of service and of high quality, for all asylum seekers, and then one can wait and see whether the representative Hagen sees any advantage in this proposal, or whether he therefore believes that it is sufficient to improve the control of asylum seekers from the time they have been refused their application.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1389	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1392	Today, we have witnessed a self-evident performance in which parties who aim to govern together and thereby front Norway's interests outside the world proclaim far different attitudes on important issues such as defence and security policy. Of course, I am referring to the parties Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. Stoltenberg goes very far in asserting that the war on terrorism in order to ensure stability and co-existence in the world can only take place through Community organisations such as, inter alia, UN, NATO and the EU. Yes, he claims that this may be the most important thing we are facing in the time that is coming. I'd like to agree with that from the right. In our home political spirit, one may at times seem somewhat nearsighted in relation to these matters. SV with Kristin Halvorsen in the head, however, this calls running the United States errand and is contrary to most of what Stoltenberg is for. Of course, Stoltenberg is right. His problem is that he claims to want to rule with parties that disagree with his policies and condemn his cooperation relations outside the world. They've done that before. SV is known to be established in the fight against NATO and is against the cooperation policies of Western powers. SV took as well-known thorough mistakes at the time and is about to do it again. I am proud to belong to a nation that, with its considerable financial assistance despite its size, feels responsible for the development of the Third World. I'm proud to belong to a nation that, through the government's environmental and development work, stands out in such a way that our former Environment Minister got the top priority in the UN Environment and Development Programme. I am proud that the Government is pursuing a defence and security policy that leads us to stand up in the world against terrorism and cynicism, in order to ensure the stability and laborious construction of democracy on the ruins of the misguided ideology and politics of dictators. And I am proud of the efforts of our soldiers in this context, and from this pulpit I want to give them and their families thanks and recognition for the burden they take to follow up the decisions we make. They shall know that a large majority in this Chamber value their efforts highly, whether they have come back from difficult reconstruction work in Iraq, or they are serving in the demanding work of the NATO ISAF force in Afghanistan. They take the personal burden of giving others a safer world by trying to build the foundations of new democracies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1403	Suffer if it's late and it's autumn out, I want to say something about the beach zone. Access to nature, water, beach – to recreational areas on the coast – becomes more important and important as more of the coastal zone is built down, and as the population of press areas, especially in the east, increases. Nevertheless, we still see that three out of four applications for expansion in the 100 meter belt are accepted. We see that public access to the beach is being reduced year by year – despite public procurement and despite a general ban on building in the 100-metre belt. It has become a political spell to say that now we need a stronger policy to take care of the beach zone. The last time we heard that was when Hareide took over as Minister of Environmental Protection. It implies a recognition that what has been done so far has not been good enough. But the question is how many kilometers of beach zone we can afford to lose while we wait. There is a great upsurge in the population for a more restrictive policy in the area of the beach, including among landowners and landowners, who also want to be able to walk without being stopped by fences. Not least we saw what people meant in our day when the government wanted to sell the Bolars to Smith's friends. It was fun to collect protest signatures then: nobody said no, they picked up parents and kids and grandmothers and friends, so everyone would be able to sign. Here, a lot of collected rage emerged over the army with people's claimed rights and the increasing exclusion from the beach, rage over the reduction of traditional rights in the archipelago, rage over the privatization of what was perceived as the people's property. It is to hope that the reactions of the population at the Oslo Earth, and also of local politicians from all parties in the area, became a powerful force for the Government. In the opinion of the Swedish authorities, we need not only a new call for the municipalities and county councils to enforce more stringently in the coastal zone, but also a plan to free up the coastal zone. Such a plan must include stricter legislation, suspension of exemptions, increased buying-in of free areas and, in particular, no more sale of coastal pearls, as the Government would with the Bolärna.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1418	I do not quite know whether the word 'feig' is parliamentary, but I am tempted to use it on the head of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, who said in the reply earlier today that he would 'wait with the pension debate', and also on Carl I. Hagen, who refuses to see the challenges we are facing, as he wanted to reduce pensions this morning than after today's legislation and realized that their primary position in the Pension Commission is only a minimum state pension. You might also be able to call it double communication. Representatives Stoltenberg and Hagen amaze me when we know that we study longer, retire earlier, give birth to fewer children, live longer – that is, fewer and fewer active people are paying for more and more pensioners, who get higher and higher pensions. One of my co-representatives refuses to discuss, and the other closes his eyes. From the Right, we are very pleased that the Government will now present a message on a more sustainable and fair pension system this autumn, and we are not afraid to discuss its content. Among other things, the Right wants a larger proportion of defined contribution pension than the majority of the Pension Commission. However, it did not prevent us from taking up the broad compromise in the Commission, where one of the pillars is that the pension should be more proportionate to the income of life than it is today. Another arrow is to encourage people to stand longer in work, and a third is to convert the oil fund into a pension fund, with greater coherence between commitments, funds and economic development. The primary position of the propulsion party is that everyone should receive a pension equivalent to the minimum pension of the day. In addition, it is up to the individual or the employer to arrange a pension. Nor does a pension fund cheer them up. But does not the Progress Party see that future generations could also benefit from our common wealth in this way? I also wonder why the Progress Party will not participate in a broad pension settlement, so that future pensioners too will be guaranteed an orderly economy and a pension they can trust will be paid out. In the Workers' Party, those who oppose the proposals of the Pension Commission are on the track, but not those who agree with Vice President Hill-Marta Solberg. Then there will be no debate, and there will be no debate without alternatives. And it's a little strange now that the party leader doesn't think anything about our time's most important questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1429	The representative is quite right that the word ‘fig’ about a co-representative is not an accepted parliamentary expression, so the President has now contributed to directing the representative in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1432	Waiting with the pension debate until the government has presented its message on the matter is rather reasonable than cowardly. Newsweek had a report on the world's best country in its July issue. On the success of the Nordic countries, the magazine writes: ‘They made three basic choices: the priority education. They focus on fair distribution, social security, a common school and public health. And – they built a competitive private sector.’ Many claimed, Newsweek writes, that the high tax level would break the private sector, but that has not happened. The Prime Minister launched the debate that the Government would defend the Norwegian welfare model with rights and universal arrangements. The debate has shown that there is a broad consensus that it is the creation of value that must ensure well-being. If we are to secure value creation in a longer perspective, a much more active industrial policy is needed than what this Government is conducting. Tax relief is not the only gratifying and far from sufficient. What distinguishes Norway and other Nordic countries from most other countries is that we have a higher level of well-being, a higher proportion of the population in work and a higher level of taxation. It is this combination that has led us to the top of the UN list of the world's best countries to live in. What we hear from the Right-wing Speakers in this debate is that the most important thing to ensure value creation is ever new billions in tax relief. The link between value creation and well-developed welfare systems is then forgotten for all as a basis for high employment and thus high value creation. It is the quality of our common welfare systems that ensure high levels of professional participation, through education, good health services, childcare facilities and parental leave, which provide opportunities for everyone to participate in professional life. It is this context that is now threatened by the government's priority of tax relief. The Norwegian economy is growing, but it is overly consumer driven. Then the correct answer cannot be even more billions of tax reliefs, which are essentially to come on the person side. The right went to tax and school elections. We've got tax cuts. But those who want to ensure a good school and good care for the elderly, namely the municipalities, don't get to meet. Municipalities by municipality, regardless of whether they are right-wing, labour party-driven, SV-driven or progress party-driven, warn of severe cuts in their services next year, because expenditure is growing more than income. It should worry the government much more than it does. Because here's an important floor plan in our welfare community for real is starting to fail. New billions for increased private consumption cannot correct this failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1454	What are we people to daily are busy about? I think it's to be good – in other words: security in everyday life. This security is what politicians are supposed to provide with decisions, laws and distribution of the Community's goods. That's what this census described in the many areas that affect human life, from conception to natural death. For the Christian People's Party, all human lives are a challenge in being seen, valued and encouraged. It requires active solidarity, closeness and willingness to share. Over my years here in the Great Britain, I have noticed that it becomes very easy that what I do or work for, only applies to others, i.e. there will be a certain distance between me and the decision for the others. Of course it's not like that. The decisions also involve me and my life. When we talk about solidarity and the willingness to share, of course, it's not just about distributing what's left over. What am I willing to give up in order for others to get what they otherwise would have to be besides? Often we point indirectly to others who should contribute, and show great ingenuity and absolute clarity as to who these persons and businesses are. With this, I want to point out what I think is a failing foundation in the community house: ideological value anchoring for individuals and communities. The awareness of value of the foundation of our lives seems to be diminishing as wealth develops. It appears as a confirmation of the verb «much will have more». Envy and jante law are growing areas. It's very thoughtful. I am therefore pleased with the speech of the throne about the non-material prerequisites for being good in everyday life. The Christian People's Party will be a driving force to prevent the material from drowning the spiritual side of human life. Having said this, of course, I would like to add that the security of everyday life and weekend also depends on many other factors, but there have been many speeches about this during the debate. Kindergartens, cash support, school, leisure activities, workplaces, pension schemes, hospitals, care for the elderly and more, such as police, other and more criminal services. All arrangements, entities and agencies are important. But I also stress the individual's responsibilities and obligations to contribute to a solidarity society where it is good to be a fellow human being, whether we are children, young people, adults or older.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1469	Sonja Sjøli had a glorification of the Government's efforts for children and young people, but because of the time she probably didn't get everything, so I'm going to try to contribute a little. She forgot to mention that, unfortunately, children now have to quit the school leave because they have become too expensive, and because many parents simply don't see themselves financially able to have their children there. She praised the Government that more patients are now being treated than ever at the hospitals, but forgot to tell them that hospitals are actually intruding and sending patients so early that the treatment is simply transferred to the municipalities, to which this right-wing government has also not been particularly shocking. So the local authorities get the bill. Jan Tore Sanner said that this right-wing government has the power both to reduce taxes and to create better well-being. I am not so sure that all the unemployed agree. I do not think the Minister for Modernisation has had very good contact with the workers' organisations either. The truth is that this government has made significant cuts in the day-to-day arrangements, reduced priority labour market measures, impaired workers' rights and made impairments in the recruitment arrangements. In short, the right wants an unsolidarian working life. We get a more brutal working life, where the consideration of employers takes precedence over the consideration of employees. State Council Meyer provokes the trade movement by saying that employee organisations are not willing to reorganize. Tell me, isn't he orientated? Reorganisation and streamlining have been taking place and hit for many years. This has happened in the past in cooperation with the employee organisations, but this ceased under the government council of Norman and has not improved under the state council of Meyer. Today we have 301,214 disabled and 220,000 long-term sick. Has this government and Meyer been strangled by the fact that efficiency and reorganization lead to more dissatisfied people? It's a lot to worry about in the world. And the government has a lot of concerns, I get that. But that this census was to raise great concerns about how the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party should be able to govern together, I wonder, because we all remember how the Sem declaration was made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1480	We're not so worried, because we don't think that's going to happen. Today I have to say that I have really started to rejoice in the election campaign. Elections usually mean action to be on, but with the option we will discuss against, there will be a lot of action to look at too! I have grown up in a purely central part of the country, with a municipal government made up of a number of older gentlemen who didn't have so many thoughts, but they had no part in their municipal government seat. If they had heard the post to Inger Enger today, they would certainly have come and given her a big hug, all of them. But I know some of the SV's too, and I'm sure that post must have made it boil in quite a number of socialist adrenaline hearts. We know what it's like when the socialist adrenaline is popping up. For the good old central party politics, it has been a long time since I heard from this pulpit. So this is going to be fun. The second thing I thought was very eye-catching, was the answer Jens Stoltenberg gave to Oddvard Nilsen in the line. It made it guess in a left-heart. Because we know a lot about being the youngest in a sibling's flock. When the sibling is going to play, it's about making sure they don't argue, making rules so that everyone can play on the same line. You really get the babysitting hook if that's the way it's always the big one that's gonna make the rules for the others. The formula that if we don't agree with the others, the option is a minority rule of the Workers' Party, makes it quite clear that it's the big ones that are going to make the rules for the small ones. And if the little ones don't add up, they're going to play by themselves. It's going to be exciting to see how to make a collaboration between three games, which some of us have a lot of experience with, if that's the rule that it's always the big one that's going to be allowed to define the rules on how to play together.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1493	The language of the throne was almost chemically free from mention of the Norwegian defense and contained largely only the usual phrases. Nor has the defence been specifically mentioned in today's debate. What you can see then is that the government is continuing the dismantling of the defence, and of course it is not very pleasant to be reminded of. The government has been early in promising Norwegian participation in various military operations abroad. Often this has been a mission that has been a good reason to participate. Unfortunately, participation by Norwegian forces in various foreign operations is occurring from time to time, resulting in psychological damage to soldiers. With the evolution we see today in conflict areas where Norway is contributing forces, it is unfortunately likely that there will be an increase in this type of damage in the future. We know from experience that there has also been a need for a long-term follow-up of this type of patient from previous foreign operations. The defense is thus obliged to provide assistance to the returned soldiers. Bæria, the soldiers' own reconvalescent centre, has for a number of years been a very loving and useful offer to war veterans both from previous wars and later UN and NATO operations. As the funding of Bæria is now provided by the Government, this offer will be removed from this large group of users – without providing users with any similar offer elsewhere. The government even owes it to the health service to take care of those who have late effects from war efforts. This is in itself true, but it is disrespectful not to maintain such a broad offer as Berea to these people who have given so much of themselves to ensure peace and democracy. The Progress Party will look in alternative ways to maintain a decent offer to our war veterans, both the elderly and the young, so that they can function well in civil society. The reduction and closure of this kind of offer to our war veterans must therefore have nothing to do with the reduction and rationalisation of defence by the Government. Our war veterans deeply regret what is happening. It's not hard to agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1505	Just a few comments at the end of the debate on two of the proposals that we have allowed ourselves to make. The first is to establish closed asylum facilities, in particular for those who have received a final rejection of their asylum application. It will be interesting to see how the Workers' Party is dealing with this proposal, for earlier today, in News today. 12, the Labour Party spokeswoman on immigration policy, Signe Eye, the following on asylum seekers who have been refused their application and who have no place to live: ‘The situation is unsustainable. This is the responsibility of the government and not of the municipalities. The working party last week made a proposal to make special receptions for those who have been refused and who are going out but cannot be sent out because the country in which they belong comes from will not accept them. There they're going to get food and roof over their heads, but nothing more. They must be received until a solution is found to the situation. Active action must also be taken against the countries to which they are to return.’ This is what the Labour Party's spokespersons say in terms of immigration policy. What she's saying is almost the same thing as in our proposal no. 1st@item: inlistbox It's going to be exciting to see if there's going to be a follow-up from the Workers' Party to what the spokeswoman says in the news reports, or whether it's as usual, or what we've had examples of before, is that you say one thing outside, and then you don't follow it up in the storeroom. With regard to our proposal No. 3, to ensure the municipalities the income base on which they have based their budgets, we know that it can be done in different ways, through the ageing process or through their own supplementary appropriations. It's subordinate to us. The most important thing for us is that the Storting determines that the municipalities will receive such compensation, so that they do not put in place any necessary mitigation measures, redundancies, in their service production, which they might otherwise do. Otherwise, there has been an interesting debate on the throne. I guess we're going to have many, many laps. With regard to the government option that arises on the socialist side, I have to admit that it could actually be interesting to get such a majority in order to have the pleasure of seeing how those negotiations were going, how such a government would be able to behave. Unfortunately, it's an experiment that won't be for the benefit of the country, so I guess I'm not going to work for it to be such a majority, but on the contrary. But it's almost tempting, because after hearing the parliamentary leaders of the Central Party, the Labour Party and the SV today and in other debates, it would be very interesting just for the study to see how it would go.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1519	The languages of the throne are kind of the opposition's debate. The debate itself in this Chamber today carries a message about it. Therefore, it might have been expected that this announced government option – the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre – would emerge with some common policy. It has been completely absent from this debate. Every time you've approached that issue, you've been told that it's demanding, but there it stopped. Now it should be said that initially it was actually an indication of the same theme choice. The representative Stoltenberg chose a foreign policy suggestion in his post, so did Kristin Halvorsen. But there is also the huge difference. The representative Stoltenberg pointed out what has been the long line in Norwegian foreign, defence and security policy, namely that we also take responsibility, participate and participate. Kristin Halvorsen's posts were only bids for one thing: sign up, stand free. This is a whole new line of Norwegian policy. It's a sea, there's a gap between those two positions. Stoltenberg said in his reply to me that if it were not as the Workers' Party wanted, they would form a government alone. Then I have a specific question for Kristin Halvorsen. Kristin Halvorsen's party program says they're going to notify Norway of NATO. I know that SV was formed in 1961 on the basis of just resistance to NATO and security policy. My question to Kristin Halvorsen is: is she willing to state also the position, which I see as the soul of SV, in order to have government cooperation with the Workers' Party? Now she's in the room. Now she can answer. Will she make such a proposal, or will she not make such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1526	First, briefly to the proposals: the Labour Party has a long and good tradition of not voting in favour of proposals promoted in the Chamber. We believe that proposals need a completely different type of treatment, not necessarily because we disagree with them, but simply because we believe that taking suggestions in the hall is a crazy treatment unless there are quite specific reasons that speak to take them directly into the hall, and that is not in these cases. These are issues that it is entirely possible to address in connection with, for example: The state budget, where we are to deal with appropriations for asylum recipients and the need for enhanced reception, special reception and other things. The question of the fight against unemployment is quite natural in the context of the State budget, and the question of the municipal economy can be addressed either in the State budget or in the new era of ageing. So when we vote against the proposals, it's not necessarily because we disagree in reality in all the proposals, but simply because we're opposed to this way of dealing with proposals, and we're either in position or opposition. So that's a short reason why we're voting against the proposals. When it comes to the government option, I would say the following: firstly, it is that you should be very careful on the part of the government parties. The Christian People's Party went to elections on a completely different government option than the government option they had. At least we clearly announce in advance what we want to work for and apply for. The second is that it was not close to presenting a common policy to this government before the elections. It was actually Carl I. Hagen who had to help them point out the prime minister. They couldn't even agree on it. What we do is go to the elections on our programmes, and then we go to the elections on a clear declaration of will to negotiate into a common platform. I have good faith that we're going to get it, because these parties, despite the fact that we disagree on a number of individual issues, agree on the very important thing: that we have to stop the right turn of the Norwegian society, where we have a policy that goes in the wrong direction in a lot of areas, and where we think it's right to spend the big money, the numerical promises, at a lower tax, mostly to those who have the most from before, clearly documented in the tax release, rather than using these money to secure pensions, elderly care, school and the fight against unemployment. There's a big and important ideological difference, and I have good faith that we're going to negotiate for a good majority basis. The third is that even when these three government parties, which have revealed in the past weeks that they disagree on refugee policy and on energy policy – we heard that the Minister of Energy was happy, and that the Minister of the Environment and the Prime Minister were disappointed when a gas power plant came into being – and also disagreed on important parts of European policy and Norwegian contributions with strengths for a future European army, have agreed on some more or less distorted compromise, then it is still unclear what kind of policy the country receives, because then they are going to negotiate with the Great Britain. But if we agree on a basis that can last for four years, we have a clear majority basis for four years. I believe that we are going to show both through the elections and the election results and the negotiations that it is possible to put on the feet of a permanent majority option to today's weak minority government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1539	In short, the proposals put forward by the Progress Party during today's debate: the Central Party will support both proposal No. 2 and proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We believe that these are important proposals. As regards proposal No: 3, in fact, what is essential for the freedom of action of the municipalities is the operating result of the municipalities. That is what determines their freedom of action. Right try to create the notion that the increase that they are now giving in free income would in some way offset the failure that municipalities have had in tax revenue, not only this far this year, but also last year, is seaworthyly completely wrong with what people out there experience. It is possible that the municipality minister believes that what is happening in the municipalities is not a problem at all. The strange thing is that almost all of her own party spheres that are responsible locally believe that it is problematic, and also the local people elected from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Otherwise, I have to say that the Right Care for a possible government alternative consisting of the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV are almost touching. There have been several articles here today about it. It is possible that it is comfortable and convenient, so the Right does not talk too much about its own policy. But it's not as difficult as Oddvard Nilsen wants it to look like. Why would the Workers' Party, the Centre Party or the SV make any joint declaration before the elections? We are then going to elections as maritime parties, on the party programs that our national meetings adopt, just as the Right Party and the Christian People's Party did before the 2001 elections. The Christian People's Party even went after the election into a completely different alternative than what they went to elections, what they told the voters that they were going to go into. Negotiations after the 2001 elections were not that simple either. It was not given that the Right and Christian People's Party would come ashore in relation to those negotiations. No, on the contrary. It was a breach – wasn't it? – which lasted a day or two, until Carl I. Hagen came and told me that there must be a government here, you have been so good to put you back. That's what the government came to. It is clear that any negotiation between parties with different political objectives is demanding. This was the case in 2001 between the Right and Christian People's Party. That's how it's going to be in a government that might be formed after the next election. But I can't see that it's so very difficult. It's pretty simple. We're doing what the Christian People's Party and the Right did before the previous elections. We go to elections as maritime parties, on the programs that our national meetings adopt. Then the force ratio between the parties after the election will determine whether there will be negotiations and how the negotiations will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1546	This is the last throne debate before the next roll call, and it's natural that there will be an illumination of government alternatives. Now I've heard Kristin Halvorsen say in the media before today that that one is occupied with alternatives to the sitting government, means that one has already given up winning the election, and she would like to take a debate on an alternative. Of course, it's an attempt to prevent such a debate, but she's not going to succeed, so we're not naive. There is good reason to focus on the alternative, and it should be appreciated by the alternative itself. And the reason why that happens is that we don't demand a detailed program from an alternative government before the election, I respect that one will design afterwards. The reason is that these three parties that want to form an alternative fundamentally disagree on fundamental issues such as: has to do with the country's defence and foreign policy, economic policy and industrial policy. And then a little bit of an indication of what you're going to stand for. Oddvard Nilsen had a timely challenge to SV. The game was formed, among others. from the resistance to NATO. But I see that SV and Kristin Halvorsen have now become so eager to enter government offices that I think they are going to give up NATO resistance after relatively few minutes in government negotiations. Can't SV just say it now? That resistance has given up in practice. It's the same with the EEA Agreement. It might take 20 minutes in government negotiations, and you've given it up too. Can't you just say that now? Because this is going to be the result. Or won't it be? I have also seen in the evening post recently that even the resistance of SV to polluting gas power plants is no longer safe if one goes into a government. And the Workers' Party is, of course, the most intense promoter to get the most polluting gas power plant possible. But SV doesn't make any ultimate demands, either. These are so fundamental questions that there is a need for clarification. The difference between this option and the co-operative administration is that for three years we have proven that we can conduct a common policy from day to day and from hour to hour. Well, I guess we have. But the option doesn't even try. Stoltenberg hasn't made the slightest attempt, except to talk about that he wants an alternative to these terrible right forces. So he says you have to have a majority government, because a minority government is so bad. In the next moment, Stoltenberg says that it might as well be a minority government. He's undermining the majority option for which he's been arguing for months. This is very interesting. It's also interesting that these three parties in some questions are attacking the Cooperation Government from two widely differing sides. In terms of protection, SV will have more, and the centre part will have much less. And in the case of the Santa Claus Act, the Workers' Party will strengthen the Santa Claus parties, while the Center Party will strengthen the Basic Owners. So stick to the opposite position. So this could be very useful to get a closer look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1557	I have to say that I enjoy this attention in full. I have spent so long that I have also experienced the situation that SV has had to fight to get some attention. So now I'm really just going to stand here and wait until new attacks come from the prime minister. – No, I intend to answer a little. The approach that this government is now putting up with in relation to what is the alternative is largely influenced by the fact that you don't know which bone to put on. In one moment, SV is so far out on the left-hand side that it's completely impossible for any other party to relate to it. Take the question of Norwegian NATO membership. It is possible that SV put forward a proposal for the last time at the very beginning of the 1970s. But as long as I have been sitting on Stortinget, SV has never submitted a protest proposal that Norway should resign from NATO. What we have done, on the other hand, is to raise major questions about the strategy that NATO has in terms of the first use of nuclear weapons, and on many important aspects of Norwegian defence policy that significant parts of the members of the Christian People's Party will agree that there is a question mark on – and many others in the Norwegian community as well. What is dangerous for the Christian People's Party is that there can be an alternative in foreign policy, where one will not be as loyal to following the United States in thick and thin as this government is as long as Jan Petersen is Minister of Foreign Affairs. In fact, there are quite a number of people who want Norway to have a much clearer voice in international policy. On the issue of Norway’s EEA relationship, we have been in this debate and in the past. Very many people question an EEA agreement that has become much more static than the assumption. And it is far into the Christian People's Party a much greater desire to have a more flexible attitude towards this. We, together with the Centre Party in this Chamber, have previously proposed that we explore alternative ways of being associated with the European Union. It's not particularly outraged either. What I enjoy about this situation is that this government is not now able to present a single proposal that can give a heart attack, possibly with the exception of the inner right-hand circles. Otherwise, there is no project, nothing Christian People's Party wants to achieve, other than to try to minimize how large tax havens they promised for the next four years. And it is a political poverty on which this government goes to elections. That's why I take it as a very good sign that there's so much attention around us. That's what I'm going to enjoy in the time that's coming, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1568	I hear that Kjell Magne Bondevik would like to continue this debate, and that is excellent for me. For the problem of Kjell Magne Bondevik, he's not close to what's the main issue, namely, that the Workers' Party is going to choose to try to get a majority government. The Christian People's Party is going to elections on a still minority government. The big difference is that you have a majority, you have a majority. Then you will be able to implement your policy, and you will be able to do a great deal of global action through a policy that lasts for four years. Then you can set some goals and be sure that they actually you can now, because you have a majority behind you in the Storting. Of course, it is more demanding to negotiate a political basis for a majority than to negotiate a basis for a minority. The problem is that once the minority has agreed, there is still a majority. That's what's the big difference between what we want to do and what this government has as ambition. It does not even have the ambition to have a majority basis. The day that this government sits down with Carl I. Hagen and starts trying to negotiate a comprehensive, lasting majority basis, we're comparing it to the same thing. The working party alone had a break-up at the previous municipal elections and is on a poll larger than the three government parties combined. But our goal is not to create a minority government, our goal is to create a majority government, and it wasn't Bondevik in the vicinity of commenting or dealing with his post. The second is that Bondevik should be very careful, so he is in charge of a government he was not in favour of before the 2001 elections and he did not tell the voters about before the 2001 elections. Then he should be careful to demand that others tell in detail. We have a goal and a declaration of will to get a majority government. We're clearly telling you about that. The third is gas power plants. Well, I no longer understand what this government thinks about gas power plants. Firstly, it clearly believes two different things, because the Minister of Energy is happy and the Prime Minister is disappointed when building gas power plants in Norway. That's point one. The second point is that Kjell Magne Bondevik is clearly in order with gas power stations on Melkøya. A very power-producing gas power plant is being built with gas in and electrons out. He's for, he's given it to taxpayers, he thinks it's very fine. When they build an absolute gas power plant on Kårstø, then he's suddenly very opposed to it, then it's a big moral problem. It's a very flexible environmental morality that makes you accept gas power plants on Melkøya, but not on Kårstø, especially when you accept both, but obviously with a little different enthusiasm. So this government has very big problems with principled, holistic thinking in environmental policy. We say yes to the use of gas provided that it does within the Kyoto agreement within an allowance system. It is then essential that we respect our international environmental obligations, not if the gas power plant is located outside Hammerfest or at Kårstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1581	The President takes the opportunity to recall that all speeches should be addressed to the President, not directly to individual representatives, and that the Prime Minister should be referred to as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1584	The debate will have a temperature at the end. But the reason I asked for the floor was that Jens Stoltenberg had in his previous post, when he was going to explain why the Workers' Party could not vote for proposals they were in favour of in a throne debate, or in the hall, as Stoltenberg said. It's interesting to note, because today there have been a number of representatives from the Workers' Party, and the only thing they've been concerned about has been the municipal economy. In part, the Progress Party and the government parties have been given a hard ride by these representatives because we did not want to take responsibility for the local economy. And here's one possibility for the Workers' Party. The possibility is now on the table. That possibility does not need to be present when the State budget is to be treated. Therefore, it is very interesting to note that the Labour Party is likely to vote against this proposal, and will then have no credibility whatsoever as to how to complain about the economy in the municipal sector in 2005 or in the years ahead. It is also interesting in relation to the proposal for closed reception, because it is simply a reprisal from the Labour Party's sample that came up with an adjustment to its party not so long ago, where they set up a series of proposals that were in line with the policy of the Advance Party, but which the national government voted down one week afterwards in its entirety. And when the spokeswoman's representative Signe Eye today again in the media goes out clearly and says that the Workers' Party wants to receive in line with what the Advance Party has proposed and proposed tonight, and you only perform a few hours later to vote down that proposal, I really hope that the press and other media notice the way the Workers' Party acts in different debates now, where they say one thing and act the opposite. This debate has also been a clear signal today. The working party speaks differently, from what position they have, and what committee they had to represent. But I am pleased that we have the Workers' Party revealed once and for all. As Mr Hagen said, what is really in the proposals from the Progress Party now is that here we can clarify the principles. If we want to give more money to the municipalities, if we want to set up closed receptions, if we want a plan to reduce unemployment, then we can take the principle decisions here now, and then we can come back in later cases in the current year to implement the proposals in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1593	First, to the representative Arnstad about talking about our alternative. I don't think we've done anything else all day. The co-operation government and the representatives of the government parties have talked about our own policies and presented them as best we can. It is the actual counterparty – because it is an declared alternative – that has not provided a bundle of unit related to policy. It is true that no one expects those who are behind this option to present their full programme statement. No, no, no – but there might be some areas where you could point to a different policy from that of the Government and where you stand together. It's completely gone. I don't know how to interpret the representative Halvorsen's answer about NATO to me. In the right, it's so that when we make our party programs for the big shot, it's a very serious process. And that's how what's adopted at the national meeting is the commitment of the big group to implement. I'm assuming it's the exact same process in SV. SV has then, for the current major election programme, decided at the national meeting that Norway should be notified by NATO. It's important for me to say this, because if it's the case that Kristin Halvorsen here and now has put a program formulation dead and powerless, and here says there's no suggestion from SV to notify Norway out of NATO, yes, then there's a parallel to Solheim, who in a TV program about tossed the entire SV program in two minutes. Is that how it happens in SV? Is that really how you respect a national meeting? Is that the respect you have for a program formulation, that you just say here that no, we haven't promoted it and we haven't intended to promote it at all? I know an extraordinary number of S.B. people who are incredibly concerned about that very question. So the question to Kristin Halvorsen is, does she have any evidence for this in her party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1600	It is obvious that the Workers' Party feels particularly uncomfortable by going into the discussion they themselves have put on the agenda, which Jens Stoltenberg put on the agenda when he said they should do their historic act, namely to go into a majority rule with two other parties. Jens Stoltenberg has now spoken to and from over a year, but he will not go further than to talk about «multiple government» and about how nice it is not to have to make compromises in Stortinget. But he will not give insight into what compromises he is willing to make internally in that majority government. The interesting thing is that this is completely different from what was the background of this government's establishment. None of the parties that are currently in government went to the elections that we were going to have a unified government option. The right went to the choice that we wanted the government option that has now emerged. We were very aware that the other two parties had a different primary choice as a starting point. It was therefore quite unnatural for us to say what we could compromise on in that regard. But what Jens Stoltenberg has made the most important theme of the Workers' Party for a year now and probably the next year is that he has a new concept that will create peace and quiet in political Norway. But what the content of this is, he won't say anything about it. And so, in the course of a few debates outside this Chamber and at the latest today, we have seen that various parties involved in this compromise, in this majority option that will bring peace and quiet in Norwegian political life, have vetoed each other's policies. One of the two things you agree on in this option is that you're against the Government and want it removed, and the other is that you want to spend more money on every possible place in public budgets. Everything about structural policy, everything about energy policy, and everything about financial and monetary policy and foreign policy, has very unanswered answers. And then I think it's strange, as long as this is in a way the representative Jens Stoltenberg's contribution to, as well as making peace in the Norwegian political life, that during the next year, one has not intended to clarify where the cooperation in the core areas is. I think we, as politicians, should show where our priorities lie. When you make the majority option the main thing, the voters also need to know about the content over the next year. If not, it's just a mantra that no one's going to be able to stick to, and where we're just going to sit with questions about what the result is. There is no doubt that it is difficult to cooperate with multiple parties. There is no doubt that we are all making compromises, and those compromises can sometimes be difficult to explain to all parties. It's not only Christian People's Party that has had some problems in our government, I do. But what I think is strange is that we're going to live for two and a half years on this as a political topic, without hearing anything about the content.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1617	First of all, the proposals from Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party. The government party is in principle opposed to proposals in the persuasion debate. We believe that proposals of such dimensions should be dealt with in a case-by-case manner. And right here I have a certain need to defend the Labour Party as well. I am not in doubt that they will come back with proposals in these areas, but they are tidy as to whether proposals should actually be dealt with. So to this debate. One is in doubt if one should take the word, because one doesn't know what is most relevant to Kristin Halvorsen's nuance, whether it's that we're keeping it as far as possible, or whether it's that we keep it quiet. But I have to say that it is necessary for SV to answer the question that Oddvard Nilsen has asked, what one will do in relation to NATO. We have all of the program posts that we know we don't have a special chance of getting a say in the size of our seats, but that we've actually promised the voters will try every single period of growth. That's why I think it should be clarified. But then to the debate itself. The Prime Minister had a point of perspective today on the preservation and renewal of the welfare community. It also met with the criticism that has been a year that this government is leading a policy that has put the welfare community at risk. Then I was expecting an actual response to that post, which drew up both the historical perspective and the perspective of the future, what we were going to take care of by elementary, fundamental things, and what had to be renewed. No, it doesn't, it talks about everything else. We in this room are unfortunately not able to conduct the future-oriented debates from such a point of view that we got here today. I'm sorry. It is difficult to agree on a broad policy, a plural policy, in such a fragmented political system as we have. But we've done it for two and a half years, despite the fact that we went to a different option. Selectors said no to that option, unfortunately. But we have made it clear, and we have turned pessimism into optimism. I thought that therefore there was no reason for the representative, Stoltenberg, to harp. And I also know that the representative Stoltenberg is a wise and intelligent man. He knows that what the Prime Minister says about gas power plants, has a very natural explanation, based on a compromise on Sem – not that the Prime Minister has changed his mind about gas power plants If Stoltenberg is allowed to form a government – something I do not want – we will probably be allowed to come back to things he has also had to compromise on. [[(the president clubs again):]] I'm sorry it was ten seconds over, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1632	When the SV parliamentary leader receives basic questions, she only answers that she enjoys the situation, and she does not make a single attempt to answer. It's not possible – in the eleven months left for the election. One can't just stand here and say that one enjoys it, and then slide away. Now we realize that the SV's program is not so serious about NATO, because it has not taken up any suggestions on in many major periods. And the EEA Programme item is probably not that serious either. It's interesting to know. That is why I think I am getting right in my prediction that this will be given up after a few minutes in government negotiations. But you can say it now: one has given up its opposition to NATO, one has given up its opposition to the EEA Agreement. And that's interesting, because SV was formed in opposition to the Workers' Party's foreign policy. And now they're going to cooperate on it. Perhaps Kristin Halvorsen will sit in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and conduct the foreign policy against which she has opposed. It's going to be exciting. It could be interesting with some clarifications of the completely fundamental issues. So Stoltenberg says that the Labour Party is going to elections on a majority government, and that the Prime Minister was not close to commenting on it. Well, I've made a very good comment on that. I have therefore just asked for clarification of some basic guidelines for such a majority rule. But the interesting thing is that just after Stoltenberg has argued against minority government, he says, yes, I may well form a minority government. So what's been so hopeless is immediately afterwards totally fine and very good. This, of course, does not depend on hopping. He undermines his own argument. So Kristin Halvorsen says that the Christian People's Party has nothing to fight for in this government. Yes, indeed! We have fought a more offensive environmental policy than the working party government had – with which Kristin Halvorsen will otherwise cooperate. We've fought for a better family policy with freedom of choice than what we get with a socialist government. We have fought a plan to combat poverty in Norway, in addition to increasing aid more than in many years, and have brought Norway back to the top of the world – the Labour Party has brought us down on that list. We fight for the voluntary sector and have improved its working conditions. And I spent my entire post today stressing that we are fighting to secure well-being. Then we must also renew the welfare systems, including: through a pension reform and through a reform to see work, social security and social security schemes more in context. I had hoped for a response to that. And I'm a little insecure after this debate on whether the opposition when it comes to it is willing to take these necessary reforms. But I give the opposition more time and hope that it will be possible when we come to the specific issues. For the fourth year in a row of the United Nations, Norway is the world’s best country to live in. It says a little bit about the well-being we've been working on. I'm not sure it's going to sound like that on Wednesday, when the state budget is presented, because sometimes it has seemed as if we have been reset and almost become a developing country when the budget has been presented in the past. But we may recall at the end of the debate the fact that Norway by the United Nations four years in a row, i.e., throughout the period of this cooperative government, is in the hands of the world's best country to live in. There are many who have the credit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1645	I'm registering Per Sandberg's new concerns for the local economy. Most in this Chamber will remember that the Progress Party has for several years entered into budgetary settlements with the Government Parties. I can't say that it's been the impression of a hard fight to strengthen the local economy that has shaped those budgetary comparisons, rather the opposite. Budgetary settlements with the Workers' Party were concluded last autumn. The working party budget contained DKK 3–3.5 billion in the strengthening of the free revenues. There was a connection between DKK 2 and DKK 2.5 billion in strengthening – now that the problems in the local economy have not been even greater than they are now. But we've just adopted the government's plans for the municipal economy for 2005. And then what happens? Well, the government is making a scheme where there's not even enough money to cover changes in the population's composition. It's a historically low level. The Labour Party has said that this is not possible, it needs to be added to DKK 3-4 billion, there is a need for a plan to restore the imbalances in the local economy. But the government's arrangements have been given a majority – under Per Sandberg's leadership and with the support of the Progress Party in this Chamber. The progress party with Per Sandberg in the head has given its support to an economic arrangement that will lead to poorer quality in school next year, but which also leads to poor care for the elderly, contrary to what the Progress Party likes to give the impression of. But it is the Progress Party that has given the majority for this arrangement and back coverage for the scheme that the Government is going to implement. When Wednesday’s government presents its budget for the next year, the Labour Party will have its main focus on knowledge, on older people’s services and on work. The Labour Party has been a driver of a more active industrial policy, and we have been a driver of a more active labour market policy. Has the Progress Party, in its budgetary cooperation with the government parties, focused on strengthening employment? Is that what's been in focus? I am fully aware that the Progress Party has had some positive effects on some things. For example, they have reduced the annual motorcycle tax. But it's not exactly the effort to reduce unemployment or to strengthen the local economy that has been what has shaped the budgetary comparisons. Finally, I understand that the Prime Minister needs a strong focus on SV's view of the EEA Agreement. I note that the Prime Minister does not have the same need to focus on the views of the Central Party on the EEA Agreement, but I assume that this is related to the fact that the Prime Minister has found himself very well in being prime minister of a government where the Central Party has had that view for several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1658	I noticed that the representative Stoltenberg found no reason to comment on the big brother's syndrome. That is why I can be more specific. In the exchange of replies that I referred to earlier, the representative Stoltenberg says that it is important to conduct a responsible foreign policy, a responsible security policy and a responsible economic policy to make government with him. Then there is a question of whether it is a responsible foreign policy almost to be opposed to all international cooperation bodies, whether there is a responsible security policy when SV cuts 4 billion for Defence, whether there is a responsible economic policy SV has. Putting 7 billion more into business taxes, is it responsible? So to Kristin Halvorsen, who may hardly have heard much of the debate today. We in the Left are at least very proud of what the Government gets done, and what we're going to do with both the environment, small businesses and social responsibility. What is unique in this big deal compared to all the years before is that we now have a government that can get a majority of good environmental solutions along with SV. This means that for the first time in history one has broken the vulgar alliance between the two parties that have always faced poor environmental solutions – the Progress Party and the Workers' Party. What is now fascinating is that SV should not use the opportunity to get good solutions to it, but Langeland and Brustad should join forces to find the good environmental solutions for the future. That's left very excited about what to end with, especially when it's Brustad who's a big sister and has to define the rules on how to play together.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1671	Jens Stoltenberg says that there should be a fundamental basis for why the Workers' Party will not vote in favour of proposals, i.e. in favour of what they claim outside of this Chamber that they are in favour, but that they will not vote for inside this Chamber. There is a relatively new practice in this case. It is many times that proposals like this have been put forward in the debate on the throne, which has been adopted. A few years ago, we had a relatively significant escalation plan for the care of the elderly. It was the result of a proposal I made in a throne debate, and which was finally unanimously adopted, to get the Government to promote a big message of escalation in the care of the elderly. Today we have a fight against unemployment as a similar matter. The Labour Party says that they would like to have many measures against unemployment. We have proposed that we really get the Government to go through the whole employment situation and take action. We've said that a goal is to get it under 60,000 in three years. It's a guiding principle. The working party later outside this room as if they were in the same room, but they will not even give a job to the government of the country! I think that's very amazing. When I heard Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, I almost thought he had a script where it said: bad argumentation – raise his voice. He complained violently that the Progress Party did not agree to give enough money to the municipalities. We also got in agreement with the Government which was the only one in this period, a billion more to the municipalities. OK, the Labour Party got something more, but we have also received more money for the municipalities than the Government has proposed. But then he should be cheering today, if he has been dissatisfied with the Advancement Party earlier. Today, we have proposed that the municipalities should at least secure the money they expected in 2004. Then Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen should be cheering and voting for our proposal. All those rapporteurs out there who have now followed the debate, and they follow along, they know that tax revenue is going to be less than they expected. This evening we could inform the rapporteurs that for 2004, at least you will have what you have calculated on the revenue side of the budget. The Labour Party, which is massing and complaining that the municipalities have too little advice, has forgotten that they have made a settlement for this year, when we hear many of the representatives in the Chamber today complain about poor municipal economy. Why, on a global scale, the Labour Party cannot give the glad tidings to the rapporteurs of the country that they will at least receive in 2004 the revenue they have expected from their budgets. But Jens Stoltenberg says that the message of happiness should not be given to the Workers' Party, they will not at all clarify this. When one complains that there may be a worse economy in municipalities in 2005, there must be an argument that the Workers' Party should be involved in at least not letting there be such a deficit in the municipalities of 2004 that may be covered in 2005, because it is even worse. I think it would make sense if the Workers' Party thought again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1691	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1694	Time and again, in countless debates, we have heard Jens Stoltenberg say: The Labour Party is voting for what they are for and against what they are against. That principle has now been abandoned by the Workers' Party. To Schjøtt-Pedersen, I would just like to say: I sympathise with the representatives of the Workers' Party in the Municipal Committee, who are struggling to get more money for the municipal sector. But I also have to be allowed to say to Schjøtt-Pedersen: when you are going to have a debate on local economy, you have to be a little more honest. So over the last four years, the Progress Party has increased and strengthened the transfers to the municipalities by DKK 10 billion. In the municipal bill for 2005, we have a deal with the government where there is an increase from 1.7 billion to 2.5 billion in transfers to the municipal sector. That the Workers' Party will deposit even more money, that's quite possible, but be a little honest with the Progress Party has done in the last few years in our different comparisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1703	I think this has actually become a rather interesting debate, with many important themes that are now on the table. Let me comment on a couple of them a little bit quickly. First an old repeater, gas power plant: I understand what Jon Lilletun is trying to say, but I deeply disagree with him. I would have understood if they said that this was a result of a compromise in which the Sem-Declaration said yes to the three structures that had been given, on Kårstø, on Kollsnes and on Skogn, and they said no to new ones. That is what the Sem Declaration says. The problem is that that's not what you do. Firstly, when this government joined, it was to grant concession to a fourth gas power plant that was not mentioned in the Sem Declaration. It is the Melkøya gas power plant – which is the same size as that of Kollsnes and that of Kårstø – where not only was the concession and emission permit granted, but even tax credits were granted to put it in place. Then it's a little funny that you're morally condemning some gas power plants, but that's what stimulates other gas power plants. Then I go mad at the principles, and I think that's because the principles are sour, not because I'm sour. It's pretty messy when you try to follow what this government really means. My claim is that there is no match between what you say in the Sem statement and what you have actually done, because you have given a concession and are in favour of gas power stations that you previously opposed, which are not permitted in the Sem statement. That's the one thing I have to say. The second is that I believe that it is essential that we now have an quota system in place that enables all gas power plants in Norway, whether we build one, two, three or four, with or without the Sem declaration, to come under an environmental regime that ensures that they are within the international environmental agreements we have concluded. It's urgent, because now we're running more gas power plants than this government would have expected it to do. So in the case of black paint, I hear what Prime Minister Bondevik says. But I've collected what he said about my budget in 2001. Then the Christian People's Party and Left said that it was a great provocation, a reorganization program – unacceptable, fragile and harmful to health, was my government budget. I have never used such strong, black-painting words about his state budget, nor will I. But I want to reserve the right to refer to the Statistische centralbureau saying that there have been more people going on social assistance while Kjell Magne Bondevik has been Prime Minister, that Aetat reports that there are considerably more unemployed and significantly more long-term unemployed now than when he started as Prime Minister, and that the Municipality of Oslo reports that they are now closing important youth measures in the urban killer cities of Oslo – two out of three clubs in Groruddalen and two clubs at Holmlia. It's not me as a black painter, but it's the Right/Fremskritsparti Council in Oslo that reports cuts in terms of important social measures. That's what I'm going to say, because that's the actual situation, whether it's the Statistical Central Bureau, the Aetat or the Oslo Municipality that reports. In the case of local economy, we provided NOK 3 billion more for the municipalities. It was an important improvement, such a good improvement that the Christian People's Party is pleased that they were not able to adopt their original budget, and we were in favour of more money when the municipal proposition was adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1718	It's probably been quite a number of years since there's been some really three-minute rounds in connection with a throne debate, so that suggests that we're approaching more exciting political times. I would like to thank both the Prime Minister and Oddvard Nilsen for their concern for the internal life of SV. I experience it almost as sad statements, because we do not promote the proposals they so deeply would have liked to have attacked us for, and because we are very much on the SV side, not only this year, but also earlier years, have been able to be the party that has targeted what the vast majority of the Norwegian people have felt in terms of unrest over the international situation, namely the resistance to the US war against Iraq and the resistance to, not at first that the Government took a proper position in relation to the fact that this had not been anchored in international law, but that it was given to Jan Petersen, former Right-leader, free reins in relation to fineing on the relationship with the United States. As a result, Norway has ended up in a situation where Bush is taking us into account for its policy. There are quite a number of people in Norway who are deeply concerned about this. That resistance is what we have targeted, and that resistance many want is to be Norway's view. Of course, this government is plagued by the fact that there is a strong opposition in this important area, and some who want Norway to take a different position in the international picture. I take that as a great encouragement. It is not the case that there is a lack of response from SV as a nuisance. This is going to be a game that's going to take place in the future, right up to the big shot. But what's interesting about the Christian People's Party, I think they're in a situation where they're trying to talk about how much optimism you've felt in the whole country. That optimism must be in all places other than the Christian People's Party itself, for the reports we get from the inner life of the Christian People's Party do not testify that there are hallelujah meetings from the north to the south of the Christian People's Party currently holding. On the contrary, it seems that the right-wing policy they are forced to pursue falls a little heavily on their chests, and that it is such that they would like to think of some other priorities when one local government representative after another is up and says that they in their municipality must cut down on what is the Christian People's Party's core values. I would like to say to the Christian People's Party that if this is going to be too heavy after Wednesday, when the state budget is presented, there is an alternative. So there is an opportunity to focus a little bit more on the roots of the Christian People's Party in the further political future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1729	I understand that the representative Halvorsen now also begins to develop considerable competence in relation to the hallelujah meeting and such teams that will take place in the Christian People's Party. It is quite right, as the representative, Mr Halvorsen, says, that we have had quite such heavy periods, and that we too have had a hard time. And it may be, if it's going to be a government change, that it's going to be an interesting experience for the Socialist Left Party that sometimes it actually costs to take government responsibility, because it's just so that a few times can do what's right, but in the short term it doesn't give a profit. We believe that the main concepts that we've done are going to give us a long-term win. Then the representative Halvorsen says it's those who have represented the majority of the people when it comes to international politics. Compared to the scepticism when it comes to the Iraq invasion, it is quite clear that SV was in that plurality. But that's the way to make it very easy now. We can come back to this that one is not willing to implement the measures requested by the United Nations, that an actual test of the United Nations against what must happen in Iraq now. But I think we'll get our own debate on that, so we can get back to it. Then to the representative, Stoltenberg. To this day I have said that I am disappointed in the way Stoltenberg puts up the tax debate, he is not despicable in some areas. Now I am sorry to say the same in relation to gas power. I shall quote from the Sem statement: ‘It is added that the Snow White project will pay the CO2 tax once the project is realised. Snow White is a gas project. This means that it is not appropriate to extract the oil from the field. On this basis, a cooperative organisation may accept the realisation of the Snow White project.» I ask that the representative Stoltenberg stick to the realities of such issues and do not put forward claims that a person does something else in reality than what one has actually said in the Sem statement. Finally, I have a question for the representative, Stoltenberg: Is it easier or more difficult to meet the Kyoto agreement with international repurchase agreements when these three gas power plants are being developed?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1751	I asked for the word under Kristin Halvorsen's last post, which shook me. The Prime Minister suggested in a reply earlier that Kristin Halvorsen was a current candidate as Minister of Foreign Affairs in a new majority government. I just want to mention that it is a significantly stronger application for that post in today's Evening Post, from Per Olaf Lundtägen. The SV programme for the current ageing period, on which elections were held in 2001, states without reservation that the SV will be presenting proposals for the withdrawal of NATO during the next enlargement period. Kristin Halvorsen has not made a shadow of attempts at even to make it probable that this is serious. Then I would like to ask that the next time you invite the voters to vote on SV, you note in the roll-call selection program which promises are not serious. If it were to be something back then, it might be interesting for the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1760	Kristin Halvorsen, then Jens Stoltenberg. The President has a good time – I just mention it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1765	We appreciate the President's time. I took the floor because Lilletun accused me of not having things to do at hallelujah meetings, but I do. In the political context, there is now one thing, but when we got bored in Skien in my youth, we went to Åge Samuelsen's revival meetings. There I think someone could each have something to learn. It happened that Åge Samuelsen took the collection and went on to fill the Danish boat. When he returned to the congregation, he had to apologize, to the congregation and to God. It was a great experience to hear Åge Samuelsen in dialogue with the Lord of Spring when he confessed to the assembly that he had taken the collection and traveled on the trip with the Danish boat. Our Lord said from above: You're just a human being, Åge. It's no wonder you fall for the temptation, you're just a human being. It was a little bit of each one to learn from. Now I don't think Lilletun or Bondevik should confess in the same way to their expulsions with the Right in Government, but I guess I think the Christian People's Party is in bad political company without being on the Danish boat. Many of the priorities that we should do in the next four years are closer to the community that now needs money, instead of the 12 billion, plus the 4 billion that this government has promised to add to the tax burden. It is an honest matter and an honest priority, but I cannot understand that it is closer to the heart of the Christian People's Party than an alternative that fights for that money to be spent together, for all the purposes that now need it. I just need a couple of strings for explanations of vote at the end. Carl I. Hagen has made some suggestions. I think that proposal No. 1 was very well commented by Jan Simonsen, and does not need to add anything further to it. Proposal No. 2 cannot be seriously meant by the Progress Party. They proposed billions in public sector cuts that would never be close to reaching a target of 60,000 unemployed. Proposal No. 3, to promote the necessary additional appropriations for the 2004 budget for Kommune-Norway, is similar to what SV proposed last year, without receiving the support of the Progress Party. We are ready to do it again, but we do not need to vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party. We warmly welcome them if they want to give priority to local economy. We are ready to stand up for the municipalities at any time, but we are not going to vote for this proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1784	The President finds it necessary to draw the representative's attention to the fact that part of her description of awakening meetings was at the limit of what the President will accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1787	First a little bit about gas power. When the Sem declaration was written and we had a government change, there were concessions for three gas power plants in Norway: Kårstø, Kollsnes and Skogn – three, and only three. Then the Sem statement states the following: «Until a system of tradable allowances is established in line with the Kyoto Protocol, it is assumed that additional concession and emission permits are granted only to gas power plants based on CO2-free technology.» And it's no wonder that everyone who read it, including many of the people who wrote it, perceived that no new emission permits were to be granted, no new concessions for new gas plants, unless there was CO2-free technology, because that's what it says. And then one has to apologize for understanding it this way, because everyone else understood it this way. But then it happens that suddenly one discovers that there is a gas power plant on Melkøya. Now, of course, the Snow White project could be realized by importing coal power. It was a solution, but it was not chosen to build a refrigerator to cool the gas and also a gas power plant to operate the refrigerator, so the gas power plant was about the same size as the gas power plant to be built on Kollsnes. It now gets emission permits and concession, but not demands for CO2-free technology, and then it must be allowed to say that at best one has managed to express itself very unclearly on Sem, so unclear that I do not believe many of the participants fully understood that it was actually said yes to a fourth gas power plant without cleaning technology. And then what I'm saying is that the confusion is total in the government parties and in Shem. It's my only claim, and it's documented. The second only applies to what this persuasion debate has been about. Usually, it is the case that persuasion debates are about the government’s plans. This debate has not been about it, it has largely been about the opposition's plans to create a new government. I think we give a very clear answer that we have a willingness to form a new government. We go to elections as independent parties on independent programmes, and the stronger the membership of individual parties, the more effective we will be for our policies. But we agree on the most important thing, namely that the country needs a new majority, a new government, and a government that therefore believes that it is more important to bet on Community solutions than on taxation. And I am glad that this debate of the throne is about the policy of the future government, not about the policy of the outgoing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1812	Unfortunately, the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Jon Lilletun, is entitled to the fact that, in this debate, Stoltenberg has distinguished himself with a very approximate reference, a upresis reference, and partly direct misrepresentation of the policy of the Cooperation Government. In the case of the Snow White project, it is explicitly mentioned in a separate section of the Sem declaration. And if Stoltenberg had read the Sem statement, he would have seen that as part of a compromise, we had accepted the Snow White project, including the gas power plant that is going to produce electricity for operation, i.e. for own operation of the field. That is why one says that a CO2 tax should be levied. So one doesn't have to be an expert to understand that it was accepted as part of the compromise. In addition, we chose not to withdraw the three concessions that were granted. This is an open compromise. Stoltenberg should know that, and he held a violent post here instead as if he didn't know it. It can only indicate that he has not read the Sem statement. Unfortunately, I must also say that there is a very approximate reference to fiscal policy for the next four years from the Cooperation Government. It's operating at 16 billion kroner. It's true that what we're saying about the tax reform and the wealth tax is going to amount to it, but what Stoltenberg and others skillfully avoid is to mention that we're going to introduce a dividend tax with the so-called shareholder model, which will go in about. Three billion kroner. So at least he has to subtract. Then we're down about the proceeds that the Workers' Party voted for in this period, and as Stoltenberg said was no problem; it wouldn't go beyond well-being, because the growth of the economy took care of it. So that level is what we're talking about in the next period. And when we propose the tax reform, with reduced marginal taxes and increased rebates and a new dividend tax that's different from the previous one, because we're shielding less dividends, it's to cancel out the greatest injustice we have in today's tax system, that's the big difference in tax on those who have high incomes compared to those who have similar incomes. We're going to cancel that difference. That's why we come with the tax reform, and it's sad that the Workers' Party doesn't seem to want to be on it. Finally, I just have to say that the SV parliamentary leader has not really tried to answer the specific questions she has been given, how she addresses important international organisations and agreements of which Norway is a part, such as NATO and the EEA, and it really remains that the programme she has been choosing is not meant to be serious. She has not made any suggestions about it in the Storting, and she does not intend to fight for it in any new government, and we do not really know the broad lines of fundamental questions as regards the option one should set up against the Cooperation Government. It is clear that a person must be able to use a persuasion debate like this one to illuminate it. When there has been no more debate on the government's policy, this is due, among other things, to the fact that there has been no more debate on the government's policy. that Stoltenberg and others have not responded to my challenges with regard to the need for the renewal of welfare systems in order to ensure well-being. But there will be new occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1828	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1836	We shall then be voting on the proposals put forward under case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1843	During the debate, three proposals were put forward by Mr Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party. As the President has understood the explanation of vote, there is a need to vote on proposal No. 1 first. Secondly, the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 are taken together.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1846	President! I would ask that we vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1853	Then we take each proposal separately. It is then first voted on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to establish sufficient capacity with closed asylum recipients and to put in place a system whereby all asylum seekers who are finally refused their asylum application are transferred to such closed reception until they return to their home Member State.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1868	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government to promote its own notification of unemployment, as well as measures to reduce unemployment to less than 60,000 in 3 years’ time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1883	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government to propose the necessary additional appropriations to the municipality of Norway in the 2004 budget to ensure the revenue base provided for in the State budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1898	The President will then propose that His Majesty the King speak to the 149th. The staging of its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway is annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04-2.ana.ud129e1911	There is no record.
