ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e32	The representatives of André Kvakkestad, Haakon Blankenborg, Elsa Scarbøvik, Per Erik Monsen and Martin Engeset, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats. They called for alternates, for Oslo Ola Elvestuen and for Rogaland County Kari Austerheim Silde, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e63	The representative, Eva M. Nielsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e66	On behalf of Lena Jensen, Rune J. Skjellaaen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I would like to make proposals to secure funding for the safety training of fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e71	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e83	I have asked to keep this briefing because the Stortinget in the 2004 budget setting asked to be presented with the work on clarifying the NRK’s mission as a public broadcaster. I have previously pointed out, at several times, that the Department is working on clarifying the public broadcasting mission of the NRK. Some background is required by the EU Commission and ESA guidelines for public funding of public broadcasters. Norway is bound to these by the EEA Agreement. These guidelines provide few guidance on the scope of the mission. This is up to each individual country to determine. The aim of the EU Commission’s requirement for clarification is primarily to prevent public funds from being used to subsidise competitively. The licence cannot be used to finance commercial services that fall outside the scope of the public broadcasting mission. There are many perceptions and expectations about what the NRK should be. A review and clarification of the NRK's mission will therefore also be positive because it can clarify both for the audience, the government and the enterprise itself the social responsibility of the NRK. A clarification is also necessary because it will make it clear which tasks the NRC can use without being contrary to the EEA Agreement. The NRK's mission is today presented by the Broadcasting Act and the Statutes. The Broadcasting Act states that the purpose of the NRK is to operate public broadcasting and related activities. The statutes detail what this task involves. TV 2, Channel 24 and P4 also have a public broadcasting mission. The requirements are derived from their concessions. If you read the statutes and concessions of these companies in isolation, it may appear that the commercial broadcasters have stricter programme requirements than the NRK. Programme requirements for commercial companies are more detailed than those for NRK. And why is that so? Well, the application requirements for commercial channels can only be determined when the concessions are granted. With the NRK, it's different. Here we can continuously adjust the rate. by decision of general meetings. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to remind you that the Public Broadcasting Council has assessed programmes in the NRK according to the same criteria as for the other broadcasters. It is gratifying to note that the Council has consistently been very satisfied with the NRC’s universal service provision. There is no doubt that the NRK delivers a quality product that meets the general broadcasting requirements, even if the requirements are not clear from the company’s statutes. However, it is time to further clarify the NRK's public broadcasting mission. I've mentioned the reasons for this. No other medium can compete with television when it comes to popular penetration. Eighty-four pst. watched television on a regular day in 2003. Each person saw an average of 141 minutes. Since television so much characterizes our culture and cultural development, it is clear that public broadcasting is a central tool in Norwegian cultural and media policy. This also applies to radio. The concept of "public broadcasting" was a good thing about NRK for a long time. Today it also includes TV 2, Channel 24 and P4. I would like to stress that the public engagement in the NRK is based on the fact that the NRK has an important role to play in society. This applies to public ownership, licence financing and programme requirements. The NRK is and will continue to be Norway's leading cultural and media activity. The NRK has a special responsibility to promote democratic, social and cultural values in society. The NRK plays an important role in the promotion of cultural diversity, the provision of programmes of general interest, the provision of objective information to the people, the guarantee of shortages and the provision of quality programmes. As licence-funded public broadcasters, the NRC has greater financial freedom than other mediums and therefore has to cover more and more areas of society than the commercial medium. The goal is not to achieve a level playing field. It is clear that the NRK must have great uprising in the people. But listener and viewer recordings cannot be the only success criterion for a non-commercial public broadcaster like NRK. In other words, the NRK also has to send in the best transmission time programs that are not for the broad team of the people. When the state owns a limited liability company, it is usually because the state wants to raise money. It's not like that with the NRK. Of course, the NRK is not supposed to have a deficit, but the company should not generate any financial surplus to the owner. The NRC shall provide the entire Norwegian population with returns in the best possible form of public broadcasting. This should also be done by the commercial operators, but they should also provide a financial return. We must therefore be able to impose stricter and more stringent requirements on the NRK than on the commercial operators. I think it's crucial to see the NRK's obligations as general programming and the expectations of NRK from users and owners in connection with licensing funding and public ownership. The NRC has a better financial environment than ever. In 2004, the NRK will have DKK 3 billion in revenue. This is a lot of money -- it's actually as much as the entire promise for cultural purposes in the state budget. In addition, the reduced VAT rate scheme comes. It's reasonable that we expect a lot back. In addition to high requirements for the provision of software, there is a need to make sure that the money is used as efficiently as possible. The NRK is now in balance after several years of undershooting. I want to use the opportunity to praise the NRK's rental for the economic development of the company. The broadcasting media is being digitised. The size has said yes to the development of a digital television network. This presents new challenges for both dissemination, technical quality and content. The NRK will be a central player in this work. I stress that the NRK should be our most important public broadcaster even after the digital network is a reality. The starting point for clarifying the mission of the NRC was, as mentioned, the EU Commission’s guideline. The EU accepts a definition of the public broadcasting mission. At the same time, the definition must be precise enough to check that the licence has not been useful for out-of-office activities. The EU also states that activities that are not related to the democratic, social and cultural needs of society cannot be covered by the mission. The challenge will be to clarify the mission in such a way that it meets EU requirements, while the definition is not so detailed that it becomes a coercive line in relation to innovation and development in the NRC. The definition must at the same time make it clear to the public what the NRK will deliver. The definition must also be so clear that the State can easily supervise the operation and lead it in the right direction if something goes wrong. It is not possible to find a completely unambiguous and generic definition of the concept of public broadcasting. Content of the survey varies from country to country based on cultural and social differences. But there is often a debate among broadcasters, media scientists and politicians about what it actually involves. However, there are some overarching principles relating to public broadcasting. The public broadcasters shall hold the democratic values of a society. They shall preserve and develop national culture and identity and shall ensure cultural diversity. Important principles are also broad in programme provision, editorialally independent, and that it should be possible for the whole population to accept the broadcasts. I think it makes sense to divide NRK's mission into three levels. The first level, the core activity, is to run the three nationwide radio channels and the two nationwide television channels. This level is mainly financed by licensees, but can also be financed to some extent by sponsors. The second level includes other editorial activities, such as: text TV and various Internet services. This level currently has mixed funding, with sponsorship and advertising in addition to the licence. The third level covers various types of commercial activity outside the classic assignment of public broadcasters, e.g.: the licensing of the product and programme hall. This level cannot be financed by licence resources. The surplus from business operations shall be used to finance programme production and programme purchase. The main task of the NRK shall continue to be to send high-quality radio and television to the whole population. I believe it is important that the NRK has a central position in the Norwegian media market also in the future. It will not be possible if NRK e.g. Cannot wager on the Internet. In other words, the NRK must be able to invest more widely than only on traditional broadcasting, deliver other media products, run production and distribution in other media and benefit from licensing. The statutes must reflect this. The NRK can today operate with commercial activity as the company itself wishes. That's what Stortinget has to say. I think this is positive, among other things. because it allows the NRK to acquire additional means of public broadcasting. The commercial enterprise is separated into an owned subsidiary, NRK Aktivum. The boundaries between commercial activity and the core tasks of the NRK are not always clear. Today, the NRK can produce and send certain types of programs to identify the sponsors in their own posters. Many think that at least this reminds me of pure advertising. The NRK states that the value of sponsoring funds is approximately 30 to 35 million. kr annually. The NRK is licensed and shall be a non-commercial counterpart to the commercial channels. I would therefore like to use the opportunity to raise a debate on whether the core business of the NRK should be completely free of such commercial expressions. I'm interpreting it so that it's the core business of the NRK, public broadcasting on radio and television, the Storting wants to discuss before the statutes are clarified. As a general broadcaster, the NRK shall operate its programme according to the principle of freedom of expression and editorial autonomy. This means that the NRC should be independent of political, religious, economic or other interests. The NRK shall contribute, through the Programme, to the promotion of freedom of information, democratic fundamental values and fundamental human rights. I would like to point out that the application activity should be characterised by high ethical standards and balanced. The NRK must place particular emphasis on high ethical standards on its journalistic coverage. This must also apply to the choice of journalistic methods. I want to use it to remind you of what I have said before about the overarching principle of the government's governance of the NRK, to which the majority in Stortinget has agreed: the NRK must have great freedom within the framework of the public broadcasting mission. The State which owns the NRK shall, above all, govern at a superior political level. On the other hand, decisions which have a direct and significant impact on the public service broadcasting system itself must be a political matter that requires management at the general meeting. In exceptional circumstances, it may also be necessary to bring the matter before the Stortinget. All governance must be done with respect for the role of the NRK as editorial activity. Questions about the editorial profile and content of specific programmes are under the editorial responsibility and are not to be dealt with in political bodies. The NRK has a specific responsibility to provide the Norwegian people with a wide range of new information, current information and cultural material. This means that the application menu has thematic and genre widths, both for the composition of application categories and for the composition within the individual application category. The programme shall have a content that appeals to broad groups of the people and that safeguards the interests of minorities and specific groups. Such groups may, for example: be children and young people, the elderly, the disabled, the Sami population and other ethnic and linguistic minorities. As licence-funded broadcasters, the NRK also has a special responsibility for providing quality programmes, narrow programmes and analytical programmes. The NRK's mission also involves a responsibility to communicate performing arts and music from the institutions that receive a great deal of government funding from the cultural budget. The NRK has an important responsibility in bringing setups and concerts to the whole country. This was taken up in the Culture Message, which was discussed here in the Chamber a short time ago. No one spoke against this in the debate. But public broadcasters can't only be involved in the dissemination of what the other producer produces. The NRK must also take responsibility for producing dramas based on Norwegian language, culture and literature. I also stress that the NRK should be responsible for producing music itself, both as part of its own programmes and as a separate broadcast. In addition to informing and entertaining, the NRK shall be an active actor in Norwegian culture and contribute to the promotion of Norwegian and Sami languages, identity and culture. As licence-funded broadcasters, the NRK has a specific responsibility to provide programmes in Norwegian and based on Norwegian culture and tradition and to disseminate culture and to ensure cultural diversity. In practice, most people today have unbounded access to foreign media through the Internet and foreign television channels. The NRC has an important role to play in providing Norwegian-language broadcasts, and this must become an even more central part of the enterprise in the future. The programme provision to the NRK therefore has to consist mainly of shipments in Norwegian. P4 and Channel 24 are required to send 35 and 30 pst. Norwegian music. The NRK must be higher than this, and it applies to all channels, both on radio and on television. Furthermore, it is clear that both official target forms should be used. At least 25 pst. of the Verbal entries should be in neonymous. This should also apply to subtitles on TV. The NRK's responsibility for new Norwegian must also be expressed on their Internet pages and on Text TV. I would also like to remind you that the NRK's district missions have an important language policy role in the neo-Norwegian region. The board of directors of the NRK has agreed to create a Competence Centre for New Norse in Sogn and Fjordane. The Centre shall train six to eight interns in the first round of the year. The next step is to develop it into a national neo-Norwegian centre of excellence, which is scheduled to operate from 1 January 2005. The aim is to promote the use of new drugs in aethermedia, but also newornatics on the Internet. This is an interesting project, which I will follow closely. Source and youth spend a lot of time on various media. The provision of television to children and young people is enhanced by the expansion of commercial channels or the establishment of new content for this target group. The establishment of Norwegian-language international children’s channels may pose a threat to the emergence of NRK’s children’s programmes. They send programs from the children wake up in the morning until they lie down in the evening. They establish themselves all over the world with huge archives from which they can send without costing them much. These channels will pose a threat to the production of national children’s programmes — and to children’s cultural identity. International children’s channels are highly commercial and send from sender countries with rules for advertising directed at children other than Norwegians. However, it is gratifying that when NRK broadcasts children's programs, viewers are present. NRK's Barne-TV has a market share of between 95 and 99 pst. in the 3 to 6 age group. However, the effort on children and young people must be strengthened so that the NRK can create a national alternative to the commercial channels with a significant element of self-production. This effort must also benefit the Sami children. The Sami television offer for children is currently only 15 minutes per week. When NRK2 becomes available to all through digital distribution, NRK2 should also be exploited with increased provision for children and young people as a counterweight to the commercial channels. Increased efforts on children’s and young people’s programmes shall be made both on radio and on television. As a licence-funded public broadcaster, the NRK must ensure the best possible provision for children and young people. This offer must be as free as possible from commercial influence. There are about 600 000 hearing aids in Norway. It is important for this target group to have access to television. It would have been ideal if all the broadcasts to the NRK were the lyrics for hearing impairments. The NRK, together with TV 2, has been running attempts to auto-subtitiate all TV programs, but technical problems cause this system to fail. NRK texts are now around 60 pst. by their transmissions, even if no formal requirement has been made for this. This is very well compared with other European countries. However, it is an objective that the NRK texts even more of its television programmes, particularly direct topicality and debate programmes. NRK drive, as one of the few broadcasters in the world, a dedicated satellite channel with sign language specific for deaf people. The NRK shall mirror the people and make an offer to all. I argued that the NRK also strengthens the supply to other minority groups. This offer is not good enough today, either on radio or on television. NRK's radio and television district broadcasts are a very important part of the information supply. The NRK is now broadcasting regional television broadcasts in ten regions of the country. This has been a success, and seraphim have increased. I assume that the NRK must have an equally good district offer on television throughout the country. The NRC reported in 2002 that from the third quarter of 2002 own consignments would be established in the Nordic countries, but to a very limited extent. The size of the population in this case requires the establishment of a fully developed district supply in Northern Ireland. I have, therefore, assumed that the broadcasts in Northern Ireland from the autumn of 2002 were a start and that the programme provision would be expanded later. I maintain that Nordland should have the same district supply as other parts of the country, and I will require the NRC to implement it by decision of the General Assembly from 1 January 2005. I have noticed that the NRK is increasingly ensuring that previous broadcasts are as widely available as possible to viewers over the Internet. It is joyous and important at a time when people’s use of media products is increasingly independent of the transmission form. This applies not least to historically important material. The licensing funding means that the NRK should not allow market forces unilaterally to influence the programme profile. The offer from the NRK should be wide and narrow, but it should also be something different than what we get from advertising-funded channels. The NRK shall provide an offer to the Norwegian viewers and listeners providing added value to the entire population. The requirements for the broadcasts in the NRK that I have now done well will form the basis for a clarification of the NRK's mission as a public broadcaster. The statutes of the NRK will then be laid down in the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e178	In accordance with the provisions of Rule 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, the President proposes that the presentation of the Minister of Culture should be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e196	Norwegian process industries can be world leaders in eco-innovations and clean energy processes. It requires a strategy that looks at framework conditions and instruments in the context. My vision for the industrial community of the future is an industry that contributes to an ecologically sustainable production and consumption pattern based on renewable resources. Before I landed here, I was a researcher and coordinator at the NTNU Industrial Ecology Programme. What we worked on from the programme was created at the end of the 1990s, was a bit strange, but forward-looking. We were interested in material and energy flows, based on an analysis that we would also have an industrial society in the future even under the assumption of sustainable development. For who wants to live in caves? But still people look at me a little bit wondering when I'm talking about industrial ecology, and I will therefore try to give a brief explanation of what this approach involves. The compilation of the words ‘industry’ and ‘ecology’ is relatively new. The term ‘industrial ecology’ came to Trondheim and NTNU from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, MIT, where it was put into use at the end of the 1980s. Industrial ecology is about seeing the whole of the production and consumption cycle. We no longer follow a product from cradle to grave, but from cradle to cradle. Industrial ecology can be seen as an expression of the change that has taken place in environmental understanding in relation to an old-fashioned end-of-pipe environmental protection and sustainable development. This is a fundamental understanding that it is no longer sufficient to treat emissions to water and air from large factory pipes and drains, when the most severe environmental impact arises from the use or disposal of the products exported through the factory port. Industrial ecology means that we need to look at the environmental impact of a product throughout its lifetime, at all stages, from extracting the raw material to production, use phase and final product treatment, both in terms of material use and energy. And it's worth noting that the concept of garbage is being rejected. Here lies a very important point, not least in relation to the very name, industrial ecology. The model is derived from biology and from natural ecosystems. The goal is an industrial society that works in the same way, and where what is today called garbage, in the future is seen as it really is, namely, inputs to new production or, more popularly, resources on the wane. In summary, industrial ecology is about seeing the relationship between ecology, economy and society in a holistic and long-term perspective. Based on such an understanding of industrial value chains, it is easy to get involved in industrial policy. For how can such an understanding be operationalised? In the interpellation text, I have referred to three possible examples. Firstly, we should focus more on energy recovery in industry. The Land Association of Process Industries and Enova have revealed a potential for energy efficiency improvement for power-intensive industries to 5.3 TWh plus 1 TWh waste heat that can be recovered. No one has earned that industry uses more energy than it needs. Some of the backside of the ‘cheap power medal’ that helped to raise the Norwegian process industry was that energy savings were not sufficiently worked out, and that therefore we have an unsolved potential. Here the state could actively use the ownership of Statkraft. In fact, there are two ways of reducing the energy costs to industry – either through a reduction in the electricity price, an opportunity that the majority of Stortinget has contributed to the removal of energy by means of the Energy Act and the EEA Agreement, or through a reduction in energy consumption. My question to the Council of State is therefore: does he see the potential to actively use the country's ownership to trigger this savings potential? My second example is about the Norwegian photovoltaic industry. The photovoltaic industry has opened up new opportunities in traditional industrial sites such as Glomfjord, Narvik and Her Island. To put it simply, a regular solar cell is a thinly cut slice of crystallised silicon that is coated and applied to a network of live wires that capture the electricity produced when the light hits the disc. Silicon is one of the most common elements in nature and is produced from sand, quartz and gauze. ScanWaver imports approx. 1 300 tonnes of pure silicon for its production of wafers from the United States, Germany and France. The production of silicon requires approx. one-fifth of a year's work for one tonne of silicon. This means that the production of silicon for today's production of wafers for ScanWafer alone had employed approx. 100 people in addition to the 500 who are already connected to the Norwegian solar industry. It is worth noting that this is an industry that is growing with approx. 30-35 pst. This year. Innovation and efficiency are required and strongly focused and therefore researched on new production methods and processes to reduce costs. This research is largely carried out where the production of «solar grade silicone» is carried out. Norway has a high prevalence of quartz, as well as a high level of competence and prerequisites for this type of industry. There is therefore no reason why Norway could not develop an industry producing ‘solar grade silicone’ for the use of ScanWafer and other wafer producers. It becomes to me a paradox that we have to import this raw material when we are literally sitting on a mountain of silicon. In addition, this resource can be used for products that benefit the environment during the use phase rather than represent a problem. My question is therefore: What action does the Minister for Industry intend to take to ensure that this resource is used? My third example concerns scrap metal and Fundia. The scrap metal chain is initially very resource efficient, but can still improve. Fundia in Mo in Rana is the only scrap iron recovery company in Norway, and thus the only Norwegian recipient of iron from car wrecks, a waste product owned by the Norwegian state through the car collection system. So it's the country that used to own many of the 154 kilos of mercury that Fundia gets out every year — indefinitely. Because Fundia is an important part of the Norwegian waste regime, and because the country has been the owner of some of these problem compounds, a cost-sharing between the company and the authorities is natural. In addition, the government has several reasons to take hold of the scrap iron chain. 15-20 pst. of the car wrecks are not recycled. They are deposited as waste and buried. Finding more environmentally friendly treatment for this carfluff must be an important task for the owner of the scraped, which is currently the country. In any case, there is no solution to SFT choosing to export the car wrecks to England, where SFT’s internal investigations have demonstrated that: ‘England only imposes overall requirements on dust and dust extraction and no dust analysis is carried out. The dust emissions thus appear to be under stricter control in Norway than in England.» With this in mind, the Norwegian authorities do not provide a good example of follow-up when, from 2007, we introduce producer responsibility for all end-of-life vehicles and it is up to the industry itself to organise the collection system. Instead, the State should participate in a fissure layer on the purification of mercury, which in turn will trigger major investments in the steel process at Fundia. Here the government has all the world's opportunities to combine a good environmental policy with a forward-looking industrial policy and an efficient energy policy. Instead, the possibilities are squandered. By participating in a fissure layer, the Government was able to achieve a great deal of positive: Minister for the Environment, Børge Brende, could rightly boast an effective Norwegian action to reduce mercury emissions, such as: spread to the Arctic and poison the polar bears. The last one is Burnde otherwise very worried about. He could also say that Norway is cleaning up the environmental impact of the Norwegian scraped, as he himself ‘owns’. Energy Minister Einar Steensnæs could point to an effective measure to reduce the power consumption of the steelworks by 20 pst. and at the same time eliminate unpleasant flickering from the power grid in the region. The Minister of Industry could never put such a small instrument in the toolbox — a contribution to strengthening one of the largest jobs in the country and a contribution to a new technology that could become an export product for Norway. Not only is it legal in the EU, but the EU actually encourages state support for research and development of new technologies that can contribute to energy saving and environmental improvements. And more than that: by establishing a new standard for best available techniques, so-called BAT, we also set new standards for the EU, as a result of the IPPC Directive, which regulates pollution action in both Norway and the EU. We can become drivers of new environmental technologies. There's something pussy about dilting after the EU. Instead, we should go ahead ourselves. The Minister of Industry now has the opportunity to become a ‘BAT man’ who contributes to the conversion of Norwegian environmental technology into export products, thus creating new and forward-looking jobs in Norway. Does the Minister of Industry take the challenge of becoming the Government’s ‘BAT-man’? All of these three examples illustrate why we should see industrial value chains in context. If we find the right solutions, we can create future-oriented industrial workplaces based on industrial ecological principles. We only have one globe. Whether we act as if the world's resources were unlimited, they're not. Gabrielsen State Councillor and party trap Børge Burnde refers in the foreword to this year's Worldwatch report, Earth's state, to the implementation plan adopted at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in South Africa in 2002, which reads: ‘Basic changes in the way society produces and consumes are essential if sustainable development is to be achieved.’ The challenge to industry is conversion to sustainability. This is something that we should help business, and at least we should ensure that we do not put obstacles in the way of this completely necessary transition and modernisation, which must take place if Norwegian industry is to have a long-term future. Norway can be the world leader in sustainable industrial development, if the Government will. In that case, SV wants to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e265	It may be exciting to see which suits the Minister of Industry is willing to wear.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e268	You can't avoid getting certain associations and images on the Internet when you're almost asked if you want to wear the government's "BAT-man" equipment, but considering all the movies I've seen about Batman, I think I'm about to keep the big suit. The Norwegian industry, despite the fact that the Minister of Industry has not taken on the Batman uniform, has many exciting examples of the development of environmental technologies in the absolute highest world class. The interpellant itself mentions ScanWafer's production of silicon discs for the solar photovoltaic industry. Similar examples are available on Norwegian soil, where a number of innovations reduce emissions to both air and water. Statoil's removal of CO2 from natural gas on the Sleipner East and its storage in the Utsira formation may be one of the best, and at least the most mentioned, examples. The government attaches great importance to contributing to framework conditions that promote value creation and growth in Norwegian industry and other business. In the view of the Government and industry, good general framework conditions and foreseeable requirements in the environmental field are the best basis for the continued development of eco-technological solutions in Norwegian industry. Through tight budgetary policies and cooperation with the social partners on wage settlements, the Government has helped reverse the negative development in competitiveness experienced by industry. The bulk of the tax relief of DKK 19 billion that the Co-operation Government has carried out so far has fallen to Norwegian companies. The proposals in the tax reform put before the Storting will provide a better, simpler and fairer tax system. Improvements in the tax system will help to strengthen business and value creation and thus provide a good basis for increased economic growth and well-being. This creates a climate for initial investment, including in the case of more environmentally friendly solutions. In the field of the environment, the Government has good cooperation with, inter alia: The National Association of Process Industries, which is mentioned in the interpellation. In March, the Government agreed with PIL on the design of climate policy. The parts of the process industry covered by the EU ETS Directive will be able to participate in the EU ETS. For the other emissions, the Government has concluded an agreement with the PIL on emission reductions. This creates predictability at a time when unfortunately there is some uncertainty about international climate cooperation. The climate challenge is just one example where cooperation and global solutions are needed. Fundia Reinforcement Steel AS has been threatened by decommissioning as a result of mercury treatment requirements. The Minister for the Environment decided last December to maintain the strict emission limits for mercury, but the deadline for implementation is postponed until competitive scrap-based steelworks are subject to equivalent requirements. At the same time, Norway will actively pursue stringent requirements and reduce mercury emissions both in the EU and globally. The government also has several programmes targeting the environmental technologies environments in Norway. Enova SF represents the Government’s maximum investment within the area. The company should contribute to new environmentally friendly energy production and energy savings of a total of 10 TWh per year. years by 2010. The government will increase the level of ambition in the energy conversion and, for 2004, the revenue of the Energy Fund will increase to 565 million. kr. The Government also assesses whether it is appropriate to introduce a mandatory green certificate market for new renewable energy. This market will be in common with Sweden. The potential for increased power generation and value creation is high if the certification market is also extended to the continent. For parts of business, products and services that contribute to solving environmental problems are an important part of the business base. It is a growing market for environmental technologies and services. In order to stimulate such activities in Norway, annual funding is provided through the Norwegian Research Council. In 2002, EUR 113 million was granted. kr for such environmental projects. R & D activities generate new products, processes and services that will contribute to the reduction of pollution, energy efficiency, new use of ICT and the development of special products with a higher level of processing. Areas that have been given particular priority are gas power plants with CO2 management, renewable energy sources with zero emissions, hydrogen and small scale use of natural gas for energy purposes. All projects financed by Innovation Norway are assessed against environmental conditions. In 2002, 312 million went. kr, or 8 pst. of SND’s appropriations, to projects that will lead to increased environmental efficiency through improvement of products, production processes and/or system solutions. The Government is concerned that within the public funding schemes environmental aspects of the projects for which support is sought are subject to requirements. SND developed in 1996 guidelines for environmental assessments of project applications. These have been developed later. The objective is to meet environmental challenges in a way that promotes, as far as possible, economic and environmental policy objectives. The rationale is that future industrial development must be based on the development and use of environmentally and resource-efficient technologies and methods, and that the integration of environmental considerations underpins the other objectives of the instrument. ScanWafer, as the interpellant highlights, is a good example of how the Government wants Innovation Norway to work. Early in the development phase, ScanWafer received support from SND, part of what is now Innovation Norway. In addition, SND supported ScanWafer in the construction of the factory in Glomfjord, which was also mentioned. It has turned out to be a real bet in retrospect. Innovation Norway shall contribute to entrepreneurship and new entrepreneurial activities in that type of industry. Nothing is better than whether this also helps us get a cleaner environment. Finally, I will bring forward the innovation plan and work on its follow-up. The innovation work is still in progress. This was the background to the fact that individual industries, including the environmental technology industry, were not specifically highlighted in the plan. In the future, the Government will further concreteise innovation policy in cooperation with business, research institutions and other relevant actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e289	I thank you for the answer the Minister for Industry gave. There are some positive things in his answer, but at the same time I could think of a little more ambitious and visionary plans for the development of Norwegian industry. We have the potential, we have the opportunity to become world leaders, if the Minister of Economy and the political majority dare lift the tab and flag that this is what they want to bet on. I think it is positive that ScanWafer has received support for the start-up of the business. But I also think it's a point to trigger the entire potential we have in relation to domestic value creation, even in terms of the production of the raw material silicon. When we live on a mountain of silicon, why in all days must we depend on imports of this commodity from abroad for the production of wafers? I find that hard to understand, and I find it a significant challenge to get up to date how we can get the full benefit of the natural resource that we are so lucky to have in Norway. In addition, there was something the minister said that I also reacted a little. It was that the government, if I quote correctly here, “considers establishing a green certificate market”. That assessment was carried out by the Energy and Environment Committee during the examination of the so-called Gas Communication last March, when SV made a gas settlement with the Government. One of the Roman number decisions taken in connection with the gas notification was the establishment of a common Norwegian mandatory green certificate market, which may be coordinated with the international certification market, with a view to presenting a concrete proposal to the Stortinget as soon as possible, no later than spring 2004. It is the big decision that has been taken in relation to the mandatory green certificate market, and I expect the government to do the same. A mandatory green certificate market will be very important in raising the production of new renewable energy, not only in relation to the energy production itself, but also in helping to stimulate an emerging industry. We see, for example, how NTE, a regional energy company, is now establishing wind turbines in Verdalen and planning to have as much as 250 jobs linked to it in 2006. There is also an example of how renewable energy can trigger a significant potential for employment in Norway in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e298	I must be so honest to admit that when I read the interpellation text, some of the core words were new to me, namely ‘industrial ecological principles’. Now we got a little manual on what's in it. There is certainly an interesting aspect of rewriting the word ‘from cradle to grave’ to ‘from cradle to cradle’: there are clearly phenomenal possibilities in recycling, reuse, many of the raw materials that used to be filled. Fortunately, we see a fantastic development in the municipalities, and so far in the industry, linked to the development of systems to take care of all this. That's very good. In the case of the raw material silicon and the fact that we have to import, I have nothing else to say but that of course it would be desirable and pleasant if someone were to grasp it. I assume that it is relatively well known in the Norwegian industrial environment that a few hundred — not to say a thousand — tonnes of silicon are used, but that it is not extracted in Norway, despite the fact that we have the elements and the raw materials that are to be used. This might indicate that it's not found commercially interesting. We must note that in the restaurants in the immediate vicinity, even South American imported water is served. So the fact that we import a lot of our consumption is a reality. With regard to the assessment of green certificates, other words relating to the preparation of the details of what was included in the gas settlement should perhaps have been used during the spring of 2004. The details of that I don't know for a natural reason. It's in another department it's going on. As far as the last representative was concerned, linked to the NTE, which I guess is the Nord-Trøndelag Electricity plant, and this with the production of windmills, it is actually such that there is an increasing activity several places in the country. In my own home state, there are actually two companies that are quite big on this, both on casting their hubs into iron, made of recycled iron – I have been looking at the production – very interesting – and on the production of the windmill blades themselves. That in the future there will be an industrial opportunity related to this area overall, is raised beyond doubt. And as I said: Innovation Norway has been told to take this into account in assessments and criteria in relation to which projects to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e311	It is positive to focus on environmental challenges related to this industry, which is the theme of the interpellation. There must be an ongoing target to reduce emissions and improve energy efficiency. But it's a little important that one discuss this in a historical perspective and in a global perspective. If you look at this historically, it's so that over the last 30 years, huge investments have been made in this sector in Norway. It has turned out both in terms of energy efficiency and, not least, in relation to emissions. Very much of our process industry is old business. They float under conditions that are currently totally unacceptable. They were a major problem both for themselves and for their internal environment, but not least for the environment and the external environment. It was obvious that something had to be done. Therefore, strict demands were later made, but it was also such that the companies themselves had a self-interest in improving the environmental situation. This has resulted in results. Without the investments that were made, I would say that many of the companies that today stand out as very modern and good businesses had not existed. Many have managed to reduce their emissions by more than 99 pst. Today there is hardly measurable emissions from any of the productions that were previously a major problem. The era in Sauda is such an example. Energy use is another area where one has managed to become much more efficient than one. Over the last few years, a great deal has been done to improve energy savings. One uses about the same amount of energy today as it did 30 years ago, while production has increased by 40-50 pst. For example, the Norwegian aluminium industry uses 30 pst. less energy per year. produced device than what a do in Canada. If you look at this from an international perspective, I'm going to say that there's no other place in the world where one is more energy efficient and has less emissions than in Norway. Therefore, we are already world-leading when it comes to environmental technologies and the use of energy in this area. In fact, I'm going to say that one of the most important environmental jobs we can do is to focus so that this industry can still operate in Norway. We know that this is the product we're asking for, and if we move out of production, global emissions are also increasing in the world. It is important to have great and good ambitions in this area, but I believe that this needs to be put into a realistic framework, where businesses have the potential to survive. I don't believe one should have many strange requirements. I believe that setting too strict demands can help to make global emissions in the world go up and not down, as desired.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e324	Like the interpellant, I think it'll be a win-win situation for the Norwegian process industry and the nation as a whole when and if we go ahead in the environmental technology field. But, like the previous speaker, Mr Aksens, I think it is a crazy wording when it is established that we can be world leaders in this area. I certainly believe that we are world leaders in this area, where all the essentials of the process industry in Norway are based on clean and renewable energy. But that does not mean that we do not lack challenges in this area, and that we should not and should not go ahead, as we then do knowingly. The main challenge lies in the future solutions in gas power plants with CO2 management, the introduction of renewable energy sources with zero emissions, and the ability to exploit natural gas for national use to a far greater extent than today. So to what was said about Fundia Reinforcement Steel in Mo in Rana. I fully agree that we have a major challenge here. In my opinion, this is the country's biggest environmental technology challenges. There is no doubt that a company is responsible for the collection of scrap iron at national level, with the result – and side effect – that this company alone accounts for around 50 pst. of the country's mercury emissions, which of course have adverse effects not only locally but also across borders. We're all aware of that, and we have an ambition to do something about it. I cannot accept that it is clear that the government has a puzzled approach to this issue, and I cannot imagine that it is SV's wish that the Minister for the Environment should immediately have instructed the company to remove the emissions overnight. This would probably have meant that the industrial park in Mo in Rana would have lost its one foothold, that the locomotive in the park would have seen better profit from moving out of the country. I have even suggested that the local environment and industry should now make use of the possibility, and use development funds and compensation funds to phase out the differentiated employer's fee, which can meet this great challenge. The company itself considers this to be a useful idea, which can both lead to a 50 pst solution. of the country's mercury emissions, and saving a job, an international enterprise likely to be more environmentally and technologically friendly than any other competitor within the same niche. It is a relatively great disappointment to note that SV, who leads the municipality of Rana, at least for the time being, has not grasped the same idea and the same idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e335	The Progress Party disagrees with the premise for this inter-pelling debate. The text gives the impression that the Norwegian process industry has a starting point and is at a level that is not in line with actual conditions. In a number of areas, this industry is leading the world in new environmental technologies and clean energy processes. It seems that the interpellant of the Socialist Left Party lacks understanding and knowledge of these realities. The Norwegian process industry operates within high western standards. Those who know the facts will confirm that these activities are close to positive results of an increase andreduction of environmental emissions. That doesn't mean this industry can't get any better. If the activities at home are to survive in an increasingly tougher international competitive situation, they must be in the forefront of technology development. This must actually be done by the cost-effective use by industry of its limited resources. It cannot be pretended that Norwegian industry has unlimited resources and can carry out any desired action. In our professional businesses, you will always have to see the costs of the development of income. Effective resource use must be central when discussing the examples of the Socialist Left Party. Theinterpellant assumes a potential of 5,3 TWh by investing in accommodation and recovery. According to PIL, this is a theoretical potential. It is not considered that it would be economically reasonable or a proper use of available resources. If you look at what's economically possible, but that doesn't necessarily give you a very positive economic return, the potential is down to approx. 2.5 TWh. This achievement depends to a large extent on the upgrading taking place in the context of overall upgrades of production processes. Where Norwegian industry has to give priority within scarce frameworks, it has to make investments that ensure a return that makes it possible to survive. This means that it is not possible to invest in measures that result in production being shut down and, in the next round, transferred to countries with much worse environmental technologies and more polluting energy processes. The Progress Party will warn against developments in which individual parties' ambitious environmental actions will put themselves the most environmentally friendly player in a loss-taking situation. Large parts of Norwegian industry have a well-developed environmental awareness. Many cost-effective reductions in environmental emissions have already been implemented. This must also be the starting point for new measures. A curious progressiveness of environmental requirements may lead to a worsening of the competitive situation. Specific and unreasonably stringent environmental requirements will deter export-related businesses. The environmental impact can then be the opposite of what is intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e346	Unlike the last speaker, I would like to stress that there is no need for conflict between industry and the environment. On the contrary, we have very good opportunities in Norway to combine an offensive environmental policy with industry and jobs, and perhaps especially in the districts. I want to use Nordland, my home country, as an example. Together with Hordaland, we have the most extensive hydropower in Norway. This has created the basis for corner stone farms in the lake, in Mo i Rana, in Salten and in Glomfjord, together with other natural resources such as iron ore, lime, quartz, etc. So I hope that the Storting will be dealt with in a moment, so that we can start looking at these contexts. However, we still have environmental challenges and problems related, for example, to: heavy metal and greenhouse gas emissions. We are not allowed to pretend that there is no such thing. We still have great potential and untapped potential in terms of making better and more frequent use of energy. However, in Northern Ireland, we have several good examples that I would like to draw up. Each salt produces silicon metal. They use a lot of energy, but they also win back the energy. For example, they drive. and produce roses — in Northern Ireland. At the same time, they have a large fish farm that delivers smolt to the farming industry. This is rational use of energy. Glomfjord is another example. They have one of the most exciting bets in the environmental industry, with the company ScanWafer, which produces 20 pst. of the world market for silicon chips for solar panels – in Northern Ireland. They have used the following foundations to build the solar industry in Northern Ireland: ‘Glomfjord proved to have a perfect starting point, with available manpower used to work shifts. At the same time, the company ensured good access to power and cooling water that is important for the production of wafers. In addition, Glomfjord has adapted a suitable infrastructure to industrial activities.’ So that's what the company was focusing on, that is. industrial environments themselves are an important resource. Fundia in Mo i Rana has been another well-mentioned example in this debate. Following mandates from Norwegian authorities, they have developed the technology to help clean up the production of mercury emissions. So I disagree with the representative Kristiansen: this is no longer an environmental technology problem or an environmental technology challenge. This is a challenge in relation to how we implement the technology developed by Norwegian authorities. These are three good examples from a small – to a large extent – part of Norway that shows how one can invest in industrial policy and industrial policy, by focusing on energy, environmental technologies and the environmental industry. I didn't think we should be satisfied. On the contrary, we're going to apply these possibilities, and we're going to apply the carrot to a much larger extent. I think it is a little sad that there are so few people who have stressed it in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e370	I notice that there is a broad political consensus between the Progress Party, the Right and the Labour Party that Norwegian industry is the world leader. But that doesn't mean – I hope – that we're going to rest on our laurels. Nevertheless, a change and modernisation of Norwegian business is a prerequisite for creating sustainability in the long term. But I would remind you that this is also a question of international solidarity! The most serious global threat facing the world in the long term concerns climate change and global warming as a result of our unwitting and ever-increasing consumption of fossil resources, especially for energy purposes. At the same time, we know that access to energy is essential for raising large parts of the world's population from bottomless poverty. First of all, it poses a challenge for us, for example. contributing to technology transfer – through solar technology and capital – which allows these countries to increase the production of renewable energy. At the same time, however, it is difficult to avoid that it will also mean increasing fossil energy consumption and thus increasing greenhouse gas emissions. If we are to avoid the most dramatic consequences of global warming, it means in clear terms that in our part of the world we need to reduce our emissions. The climate challenge thus has an obvious impact on Norwegian energy and industrial policy. SV has no faith that we should build gas power plants with large emissions of CO2 – which contribute to increased greenhouse effect. First, it is too expensive, and second, it means that other sectors need to contribute more to the fulfilment of Norway’s commitments. In that case, the process industry is legally responsible. We have submitted a proposal for an energy package that will provide 20 billion kWh, without building gas power plants. There is more energy than from all gas power stations that has been granted a concession. In addition to making the Norwegian solar industry world leader, we will be investing heavily in bioenergy. Here Norway is a sink compared to its neighbouring country. Upgrading existing hydropower plants, a gentle effort on smaller hydropower plants, on wind turbines and on wave power are many good measures that will also create very many industrial workplaces – if we have an offensive, conscious and strategic feeding effort in these areas. What I'm asking for is a more conscious attitude, a more basic understanding of the context we're facing, and an understanding of the changes that need to be made if sustainable development is to be something more than big words in celebrations. If the Minister of Industry lacks tools, he gets something. At least it's a little wise strategy to sell cheaply the very last tool he's left with – the state ownership of Statkraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e390	This has been an interpellation where the interpellant has underlined a lot of things, but there is nothing new in it as such. But I would say it's a timely indication of an interesting area for Norwegian business and Norwegian industry for the future. It kind of applies to two ratios. One is the environmental aspect itself, the increasingly environmentally friendly processes in the various industries in this area, for example: in the aluminium industry, which was mentioned. I think it is a fact – and not just a conspiracy between the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right – that one tonne of aluminium produced in Norway is probably the most environmentally friendly tonne you can imagine. But that doesn't mean, as suggested, that we're going to rest on our laurels. There is also a strong commercial interest in further strengthening and improving this. The interpellant had a review of the concerns by establishing gas power plants that spew out CO2 — to the extent also known tones. But to what she ended with, a kind of closing rate related to the sale of State Power: it's not part of this government's established policy. There is nothing in the matter we sent to Stortinget, which would indicate that we have it in mind. It is not that with the reorganisation we are now carrying out, we are taking action where this is the next step. We have said in the case of Statkraft, that in the interests of the company's owners and interests it may be relevant for industrial associates since. However, this does not necessarily mean that the country's total share of the company and the value that may come is reduced for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e401	That is the examination of case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-04.ana.ud1113e407	In Case No: 1 and 2 no voting theme is available.
