ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e69	Honourable co-representatives! Former Major Helge Seip is dead, 84 years old. Helge Seip was the biggest representative of Oslo and Left from 1954 to 1961, and for two periods from 1965 to 1973. He became the municipal minister of the government Borten in October 1965 and was the state council until August 1970. Then he came back to the Stortinget, and after the division of the Left in 1972 he represented the New People's Party. In his first two periods at Stortinget, Helge Seip was secretary to the Municipal Committee. In the last period, he was the head of the Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Committee and a member of the Nordic Council. He was the party leader of the Left from 1970 to 1972, and became the first party leader of the Liberal People's Party. Helge Seip started his political career at an early age, and as early as 1945 he took up office in Oslo City Council. After moving to Hövik, he sat in Bærum City Council for a total of 35 years, of which several periods as a member of the Presidency and as an alternate rapporteur. His political project was to make everyday life and the future better for the individual, and he had a strong commitment to the weaker ones in society. As a municipal minister, he was given the opportunity to achieve his main goal; he realized the housing project — with 40,000 new dwellings a year. Throughout his political life, he also made a strong commitment to Nordic cooperation. As a member of the Nordic Culture Commission, he took the initiative in establishing the Nordic Council Literature Prize. Until recently, he was an industrious contributor to Nordisk Tidschrift. He delivered his last article just before Christmas last year. Helge Seip was educated as both a lawyer and an economist. In his professional life he chose professional careers that were close to his political commitment, both as a newspaperman – as editor in Dagbladet and Norway’s Trade and Maritime Magazine – as president of the Nordic Council and not least as the first Director of the Data Protection Authority. He had a lot of work capacity in both politics and professional life. By the end of Helge Seip, we have lost one of our most prominent politicians and social debaters, a man with an extraordinary skill, a remarkable career and an exemplary commitment. He was an impatient and resilient politician who has set a permanent trail in our society as a poignant representative, councillor, editor and debater – who champions privacy and individual rights, and for the development of Nordic and European cooperation. ‘Society builder’, ‘society’ and ‘name in time’ are some of the headlines of newspaper articles about him in recent years, and few men like him have been able to live up to such characteristics. Helge Seip has been a name for the past 50 years – ever since he was first elected to the Stortinget and later through active participation in society from different positions. It's a remarkable achievement. The public debate has lost a clear and committed voice – a voice that combined a humanistic humane view with a social mindset and that always defended the natural and democratic rights of the individual. He was principled and dared to take the consequences of his conviction – even when it cost – politically and humanely. Then he was also met with great respect and admiration both from those who worked with him, from political counterparts and opponents, and from those who first and foremost knew him through the media. His keen talent for analysis and statistics was perhaps what in the first place was supposed to make him known for several generations of nordics. Helge Seip was unsurpassed as an election commentator, and people knew to value his clear analysis of municipal and urban elections over a number of years. He was like our man there in NRK's studio – a steady, human proof of technology. Technology was also one of his many fields of interest and an area he contributed to putting on the political agenda, not least in his new work on data protection legislation and later as Director of the Data Protection Agency. The relationship between the individual and society occupied him, and he would like to point out both the individual's obligations towards the community and the community's obligation to see — and take care of — the individual. A reliable and understanding behaviour was a guide to Helge Seip in all human relationships. He once said that today's high-tech society more than anything else needs people with firm moral standards and safe judgment. Through a long and rich life, he himself was an example of just such a human being. Helge Seip will be deeply missed – not just by close friends and the family, as we know meant so much to him, but by everyone who participates in and joins in the political debate in our country. At the same time, we are grateful that we were given the opportunity to benefit from his resources and insights for the benefit of society for so long. We remember Helge Seip in deep respect and gratitude and shine peace upon his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e95	From 23 February to 28 February, applications for welfare leave are submitted by the representative of Åslaug Haga. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Dagfinn Sundsbø, is hereby invited to meet from 24 February to 27 February.3. Dagfinn Sundsbø is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e116	The President will, at the outset, draw attention to the fact that with the debate that exists on today's map, we most likely have to expect that we will have to spend some time beyond 1 p.m. 15 today. – This for the organisation of day-to-day tasks by representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e134	Today's debate on gender equality in higher education is really about the quality of Norwegian research. When research is discussed, it is often about OECD objectives and money. The focus on equality is drowning. Norway is a small country that needs to use all the resources, not just one half of our population. The aim must be a multiplicity of research and to achieve the very best of research. In addition, the lack of equality is that women should have a real equal opportunity to participate. What does this lack of equality mean? It simply means that Norwegian research is missing intellectual resources, and Norway cannot afford this. It's about giving both genders a real equal opportunity to participate. This also has an important democratic element in itself: a wide-ranging research community is the best guarantee that science does not present special interests as public interests. A lot of money is spent on research, and one of the research's roles is just being a pre-missive for the societal debate. That's why it's paradoxical that equality is going in the opposite direction there than elsewhere in society, since it should have the best prerequisites to maintain and have an obvious understanding of the need for equality. Being a professor provides a solid platform in the research world and in society. A minority of women mean that women have less influence than men. Today, women account for approx. 42 pst. of those who start with a doctorate, and about 33 pst. of the completed doctoral students. Three out of five students at our universities and colleges are women. But still it's just approx. 13 pst. of all the professors who are women. At the same time, the proportion of female doctoral candidates in Norway is below the average in OECD countries, which is 38 pst. The study ‘Women in Research — From Quotation to Inclusion’ from 2002 also notes that the objective of gender equality in academia is far-reaching. Furthermore, it is noted that despite the high proportion of women at amanuensi level and measures taken at institutions, there has been little noticeable change at the top level. The investigation also suggests that possible selection mechanisms may have an impact on the disproportionate representation of women in the research system. In particular, it is pointed out that there is the greatest loss of women in the study period during the doctoral period, and that this also applies at postdoctoral level. The professor level highlights that Professor II positions have a consistently low proportion of women, and that there is generally greater use of call in such positions. Here we're dealing with some of the core of the interpellation: it indicates that there's an increased use of calls, i.e. that positions are tailor-made and not outsourced and that most of these Professor II positions go to men. It becomes even more eye-catching when it appears that calling occurs to a lesser extent in areas where there are competent women. The consequences of this are that women are in the longest queues and that many jobs are earmarked for men. I doubt that this happens from a conscious desire to keep women out, but that's going to be the quick result. So what do we do with these challenges? Some would argue that this is because there are no women to choose from, because calling often takes place in human-dominated subjects, and with the help of time, it will improve when recruiting women becomes better in the profession. I believe this is a sleepputee argument. Women have been in higher education and research for a long time, and we don't have time to wait for the so-called natural development. At the same time, the use of calls in itself is not an incentive for more women to enter a profession. In other words, it's not very recruiting. Calling thus becomes a discriminatory mechanism. The Equality Ombudsman concluded before Christmas that calling is contrary to the Equality Act and has recommended the educational institution to stop this scheme as soon as possible. This does not apply only to this institution. The feedback from the educational institution has been – if I may say so – somewhat lukewarm: they do not realize that the scheme will be terminated. In addition, we have been able to read about a case in which a woman reported an educational institution to the Civil Ombudsman for violation of the legislation on scientific employment. The woman agreed to her complaint. Today it is the case that educational institutions have to report on the gender balance situation. The Gender Equality Act has a strengthened activity obligation and an obligation to report. Universities equal opportunities advisers have identified a lack of transparency in the number of women candidates and added to admission rounds. Institutions also have the possibility to make use of allowances. The latter is used to a small extent. With the call issue as a background step, and the reactions of the universities concerned, I believe that there is a urgent need to take concrete action by the Government in order to achieve a more balanced balance between women and men in the Academy. Of course, institutions must be involved in such a take-off. Public authorities shall work actively, targeted and planned for gender equality in all areas of society. I hope that the Council of State will clearly show that this area is a priority. That this is needed also shows the investigation ‘Women in research — from quota to integration’ from the year 2000. It points out that despite the high proportion of women at amanuensi level, which was 42 p.m., and measures taken by institutions, there has been little change at the top level. The Research Council recommends that gender equality be incorporated as an integral part of the basic allocation. They also recommend the designation of scientific positions for women. In the past, educational institutions have made little use of this. Other recommendations include qualification scholarships, research schools and mentoring projects. In addition, of course, this is a matter of time. In a few years, very many of the scientific staff will be retired. In other words, over the next decade, we will face a generational shift among first amanunians and professors at universities. The fact that the proportion of women is higher in the permanent research staff of the younger staff than among the older ones indicates that this is a potential for recruitment. The ear-marked female professorate of the Stoltenberg government was a very popular action. More than 60 professional environments sought. Only one-fifth was given the eartag position. In other words, it shows that there are many qualified women. Now, as you know, the ESA Court has put a preliminary stop to this, but I am pleased that the Council of State has promised to follow up the judgment and appeal. I am strongly convinced that there is no shortage of competent women to fill these posts. It's obvious that it won't straighten itself out. Unfortunately, we also see that the institutions lack the necessary means to achieve equality in their jobs. Here, they need to be assisted by the Council of State. My recommendation to the Council of State is that it is essential to find out what are the plugs in the institutions' recruitment systems. Another question is whether to bet on carrot instead of whip. With increased economic incentives, we might also be able to achieve our goal. An action is to look at the adjudicating committees in scientific positions in order to examine whether they are discriminatory in relation to sex. One of the plugs in the academy is maybe the culture? – I ask the question. A Swedish analysis of applicants and allocation of research resources in a research council showed that there were in particular two factors involved: personal awareness of one or more of the Council members and the fact that being a man increased the possibility of just being able to obtain appropriations. Furthermore, one of the conclusions of the study was that women had to be two and a half times better qualified than their male colleagues in order to receive research appropriations. It was really about identifying mechanisms and finding effective instruments to do so. I hope that the round we have today between the parties on the Stortinget can give the Government constructive input, so that we can manage to achieve a goal that I hope all the parties are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e164	I agree with the representative of Bekkemel Orheim that it is unfortunate that the gender distribution among professionals in higher education is uneven. The higher you get in the job hierarchy, the lower the female proportion. There is little comfort in the fact that similar patterns also apply in other western countries and are partly worse, and it is referred to as ‘The leaky pipeline’. From the Norwegian side, we have now launched a new action by establishing a separate committee to integrate gender equality measures at universities and higher education institutions in January – just now. The term of office of the Committee shall include, inter alia: to support and make recommendations on actions that can contribute to gender equality becoming an integral part of the activity. I'm getting closer to this. The lack of women in top-level positions in right-hand education and research can be partly explained by the fact that women’s entry into higher education institutions are relatively new and that it takes a long time to qualify for a top-level position. But fresh numbers indicate that we're on the right track, after all. In 1970 there were 84 women with a doctorate in Norway. In 2002, the number had increased to 3,300. You have 31 pst. Among those who received a doctorate in 1995, the proportion of women increased to 40 pst in 2002. In 2001, 13.3 pst was recorded. female professors in ordinary positions. Preliminary figures for 2003 show 16.3 pst. women added to professorships. So this is a remarkable progress. An evaluation of the system of personal recognition of professors by competence shows that during the three-year period 1999-2001, there has been an increase in the number of women who are brought up to be professors. All 79 pst. by new female professors during this period have become professors at the turn of events. The corresponding number for men is 67 pst. The appeal mechanism has become the main means of increasing the number of female professors. The Law on Universities and Higher Education has several provisions to promote equality, but we were deprived of an effective instrument when, on 24 January 2003, the EFTA Court ruled that the statutory right to designate scientific positions for women is contrary to the EEA Agreement and the Directive on non-discrimination. The anchor Bekkelem Orheim referred to has not led forward. Universities and colleges are therefore encouraged to use their tools and further develop them and others to achieve the goal. I will briefly outline what kind of action this might be. Firstly, universities and colleges are required to draw up action plans for gender equality. Targets for the female proportion shall be set within the different job categories and strategies and measures shall be developed to achieve these objectives. Many of the institutions are now working well and focused on gender equality. The Ministry follows developments closely through the annual reports in the context of the budget and in the establishment management meetings and governance dialogues. Secondly, institutions are also responsible for the development of the skills of employees. The Ministry has called on the institutions to provide women with working conditions which give them the real opportunity to qualify for advancement or entry into a higher position. Providing education-free is referred to as an opportunity. Thirdly, the Ministry, by letter of 10 June 2003 on guidelines for the addition of university scholarships and higher education institutions, has clarified the legislation in order to demonstrate that doctoral students are entitled to extended annual targets for maternity leave. Fourth, the Ministry has called on the institutions to have mentoring schemes for women in scientific positions. All four universities now have such schemes. Fifthly, as I said at the outset, in January this year the Ministry set up a Committee on the Integration of Gender Action at Universities and Colleges. The Committee shall support and make recommendations on actions that may contribute to gender equality becoming an integral part of its activities. The Committee shall also contribute to general awareness of issues related to the gender imbalance in the academia. The Committee shall be able to provide financial support and to initiate and assess its own actions. The representative of the Bekkelem Orheim highlighted in particular the gender imbalance at state colleges. It is primarily related to the study programmes offered by the institutions and traditional recruitment to them. However, fresh figures show that there is also a positive trend here. In 2001, the number was 43 pst. that the scholarship holders, 23 pst. of the first amanuenses and 9 pst. by the professors of women. In 2002, these figures had increased to 45 pst, respectively. for the scholarship holders, about 26 pst. for the first amannus and approx. 11 pst. for the professors. It's not that bad in a year! I don't have any numbers confirming that there's a tendency to increase the use of calling for Professor II positions. What we know, however, is that the majority of these positions go to men. Figures from 2002 show that four out of five Professor II positions were linked to technical science and medical faculties. These positions may provide top-notch skills other than main positions. There may be a need to associate candidates with a special institution such as the environment and to strengthen contact with the labour market. In such cases where competence is linked to a different main position, the recruitment basis among women may be small or in some cases completely absent. There has been a tradition at universities for calling in ordinary positions to be used rarely and only in very special cases. I believe that it would be to start at the wrong end if a discontinued access to the call. Instead, focus must be placed on the core of the problem, i.e. that the recruitment basis for women in several disciplines is too narrow today. But universities and colleges should also think anew in relation to the use of ancillary services. It is increasingly possible to find female specialists in research institutions, in business and in administration. With the majority of women in most studies, considerably more scholarship positions than before and a share of women among these at 43 p.m., I now expect a further increase in the number of women taking a doctorate. A conscious use by the institutions of the post-doctoral system will be an important tool for more women to gain professorship. I am convinced that, in sum, this will also lead to more women as first amanunians and professors. At the same time, there must be a conscious enhancement of the competence of women already admitted to universities and higher education institutions. Access to professorship has been shown to produce good results for women. The Norwegian Institute for Research and Education shall carry out an investigation into the factors influencing the mobility of women into, within and out of the education and research system. The investigation will be presented early in the autumn of 2004. I hope it can contribute to new knowledge and understanding of the situation of women in research. Finally, whether these results we are discussing today are bad, and how big the problem is, I think I should also consider them in the light of something else that not so many seem to be equally involved in. It is a problem which is also important to raise in the gender equality debate, and which is probably related to what we are discussing today, and that is the low proportion of men added to the school. Less than one third of the total number of teachers admitted to primary school are men, and the trend is negative. If we don't manage to reverse the trend, in a few years' time the school will be a totally women-dominated job, and kindergarten will be before school. This will be propagated in secondary education. The work on equality must start already in initial training. A school where the teachers are only represented by one sex will send out unfortunate signals to the students. Both female and male role models are important for the socialisation of girls and boys into a flexible and balanced gender role model, which can eventually also be found among higher education professors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e206	I would like to thank the Council of State for her reply. I think we both fully agree on the main objective. I also agree with what the Government has done by setting up a committee to integrate gender equality measures into all businesses. I think it's going to lead. However, it is also important that we have a political responsibility towards these institutions, so that this committee does not become a political sleep cushion for us, but that we follow closely up. I am also very pleased with what the council says in relation to the low proportion of men added to the school. I fully share the Council of State's analysis of its consequences. This is about the fact that we need to take action in many different sectors, so that we have the opportunity to raise the proportion of women in absolutely all environments. We know that the government has been concerned with equality in the private boards, and it is clear that our research is also an important part of the total value creation. When we see women today taking higher education, it is important that we use this competence in absolutely all areas of society. We'll see what the committee can deliver. I hope at least that the government will follow offensively up. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are willing to use different types of instruments and measures. I think, as I said, that we can make progress in the recruitment of women if we can only find the right measures for these groups. I think I will end with this, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e217	It may not have been strictly necessary to take the floor here, but there is a lot of evidence that the representative and the government agree on the need for action and that the measures taken are quite satisfactory. I would like to stress that I think the most important thing is what the institutions themselves are doing. I just thought I could take the opportunity to give two good examples. At the University of Bergen, 70 candidates have defended their thesis for the doctorate during the fall of 2003, of which women make up 47 pst. It's a high proportion of women, approx. half. And to take another example, more on the instrument side: NTNU adopted a last harvest action plan in which it promised 3.6 million. kr for equality. It's actually an increase that can put even a politician out of play, because it's over 1,000 pst. in a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e224	I think most of us agree that it's a problem that only 13 pst. of the country's professors are women, and that in academia there is a desire to achieve equality. It has also been shown by the inter-pellant and the Council of State responses. Few female professors have implications for research and education. They're guides. They are also role models for students and other researchers. This is an important part of taking an education. They have roles that many people want to identify with. For me, it is about getting as good a research environment as possible when the recruitment committee is going to separate the best from the many good ones. For me, the number of female professors in Norway is an illustrative example that there should be a stronger focus on the selection mechanism for recruitment. We know that the recruitment potential of women is great, and that it will be bigger as the years go by. However, the fight for gender equality is often riveted, especially with regard to the discussion of possible and effective measures. Quotation is an example of that. Quotation is necessary. I wish there could be other measures that seemed equally effective. Unfortunately, the recent experience of using a call shows that there is still a need for another type of quota, some form that meets this need. The ministry has a committee that will look into the gender balance. I am pleased with the commitment that the Council of State shows by carefully following and ensuring that the quota and gender balance are improved in academia. Maybe we should have a stronger debate on equality at our colleges and universities, because it's strange that the Stortinget should get involved in something that you might think in the academy is an internal issue. But again, the speech of the figures is so clear that action and action are needed now. I also think that when the Government proposes quotaing in one area, such as the United Kingdom. in business, it should be possible to use this also in the field of education to raise the proportion of female professors. It is commendable that the Minister of Industry has taken the initiative to get women into the boards of directors and to get women into the management. The Minister has put this on the agenda and has been clear and clear in the debate. It is also possible for the Minister of Education to do the same. It is about will, and it is about priority. My question to the Council of State is whether she believes that measures are necessary to increase the proportion of women professors in our institutions. Does she have a proposal for how to proceed, a progress plan, a timetable? We might be a little bit too patient. A little impatience might have been better.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e241	Excellent research is a prerequisite for participation in the international research front, and to inspire the best candidates to invest in a career in research. Qualitatively good research that maintains high international objectives is also a crucial prerequisite for the continued high level of prosperity in our country. Without researchers and research results that can generate new knowledge and results in competition with anyone, we will not be able to take advantage of our national competitive advantage, generate growth, welfare development and more jobs. Increased quality in research is therefore objective No. 1st@item: inlistbox In the examination of the recruitment notice, a broad majority in Stortinget concluded with the Government’s main conclusions on the necessary recruitment measures to ensure the best minds for Norwegian research, including: by better facilitating research conditions and by emphasising the responsibility of each institution for recruiting and retaining the best and best-qualified researchers. It is true, as the interpellant points out, that women are under-represented in the top positions of higher education and research, while the situation is partly opposite to lower scientific positions. Here the trend is clear: the proportion of women among doctoral students is greater than among scientific staff, and the proportion of women among candidates with a higher degree is higher than among doctoral students. I have great faith that the sector itself is very conscious of the need for a better gender balance in terms of top positions. Nor is there any doubt that the institution itself has the primary responsibility to pursue a human resources policy that ensures that institutions meet their own objectives and strategies, including in relation to gender balance. Although developments in this area are slower than would be desired by both the interpellant and many others, overall we see a positive trend in recruiting more women to the top positions. In this context, it is necessary to note that research training itself is a long-term process and that therefore there are no shortcuts to the desired objective, especially when quality criteria have to weigh more heavily. Women are particularly poorly represented in real science and technology, while the situation is opposite in humanities and care. The government's efforts to improve the recruitment of women in real and technology fields will therefore be an important contribution in order to be able to also recruit women for top positions in these disciplines, even if it will take some time to achieve the desired results. Quality criteria must continue to be the most distinct selection criteria for excellence in higher education and research. There is no reason for emphasising professional qualifications to be negative for the recruitment of women to top positions. The main problem today is not that women are discriminated against by employment, most of which is simply not female applicants. Here, the Government’s guidelines and the organisation of incentive schemes, as stated by the Council of State, will contribute positively to the future recruitment of women to peak positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e258	It's not just bad luck, but it's a shame that only 13 pst. by the professors are women. The serious thing is that academia is missing competence, insight and women's approach to a subject. In the long term, the various subjects are becoming the losers. There are two ways to become a professor within our system. One is to seek and get a professorial position. The second is through the upsurge schemes adopted by the Storting. This means that, in the light of a committee’s assessment, a professorate is awarded through documented competence. The appeal system should actually facilitate more women becoming professors. There are a number of women who are getting scholarship and postdoctoral positions, but there are still major challenges – I think, if one is going to recruit more women for professorships – to facilitate more women to receive scholarship and postdoctoral positions, to facilitate their entry into these recruitment positions. There's two things I think are important there. Firstly, the attitudes of the recruiters. It's awfully important that those who are teachers at universities and colleges, see the girls, drag them in and make sure they can get a scholarship. That's where I think it's missing a lot. Seeing the girls who are students, dragging them in and giving them the opportunity to get a scholarship, is the most important thing. The second most important thing is to facilitate the working conditions of the girls when they receive a scholarship. This means that you have arrangements around you, ranging from kindergarten to non-educational, as the Council of State also mentioned. I think it's very important that a specialised girl who gets into the scholarship positions, in the opening positions, so that they get the opportunity to complete the doctorate and get a postdoctoral position, that they get the opportunity to get qualifications and the opportunity to get a doctorate. That's where I think the answer lies. There are attitudes and practical arrangements for girls to come in and get these opportunities. The challenges lie with the institutions, universities and colleges, their awareness of their position and their ability to recruit girls to fellow students and postdoctoral positions. In the case of Professor II positions, the biggest challenge is getting girls into ordinary professorships.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e271	In school, it's a good thing in itself that both sexes are represented among the teachers. Women and men can have different approaches, each of which can be valuable in its own way. Similarly, it is also a good thing in itself that both sexes are represented in the different disciplines of the Academy. Therefore, it is worrying that there are so few female professors and women in top positions. Several have pointed out that one of the most important things to do is to get women to complete their research training. It's on the right track, as the statistics were produced by the Council of State. There is broad political agreement on the importance of equality in higher education. When Stortinget dealt with the quality reform, this agreement proved to be. There was an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which stated that, despite a number of measures, there are still far fewer women than men in permanent scientific positions. The debate so far also shows broad consensus, although perhaps impatience is great. Maybe that's where the degree differences come from. In the same big news, there were also differences between trade traditions, where women enter the humanities, while few women are involved in technology. What the interpellant pointed to in relation to calling and Professor II positions may be reflecting on this, which the Council of State, in my opinion, documented. So calling is more used in the field of technology than in the field of humanities, and as there are fewer women in the field of technology, it is men who get these jobs. There I think it's a job to do internally. What was also referred to in relation to NTNU is good in that way. It is therefore a great responsibility for the institutions to give priority to the development of skills for women employees. It is important that we follow up on a political level in the communication returned from the institution. The Christian People's Party will support the system of earmarked scientific positions for women. In fact, I regret the fact that the EFTA Court has established that this is illegal. We just have to take it into account, and look at what we can do further. I have noticed that there is an important point among scientific staff working on average 48.5 hours per day. weeks, thus making use of leisure time for research work. Such an workload may hamper a scientific career for families with young children, especially for women, who traditionally have greater responsibilities in having children. Therefore, it is necessary to provide for practical and social arrangements relating to the rights of pregnant women, and also childcare facilities. Finally. We need to look at structures that are involved in research production and referral, because it turns out that women have lower output in birth and pregnancy, and then we need to see if there is something structural in the publication.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e286	At first I want to thank the interpellant because she is raising this issue here in Stortinget. I would like to refer to what the interpellant began to say: ‘The debate on gender equality in higher education is really about the quality of Norwegian research.’ That was the first sentence of the representative, Bekkemelm Orheim. The debate on equality is really about the quality of Norwegian research. In doing so, she clearly states that by not having a sufficient proportion of women, we also lose the possibility of a high level of competence in the university and higher education sectors. The representative Voie stresses that it is the quality that is crucial, and I agree with that. But then it's important that one also gives that part of the population, namely the women, the opportunity to qualify. The Research Council recommends that gender equality be incorporated as an integral part of the basic allocation and recommends the designation of scientific positions. The Central Party has also supported this, just as the representative of the Christian People's Party indicated that they did. We also regret the EFTA judgment that makes this impossible, because we believe that designating scientific positions is an important tool for increasing the proportion of women. The main responsibility for equality rests with the institutions in the opinion of the Centre Party. We want to underline, as Rolf Requam did, that institutions really need to look after women who have opportunities to get into a scholarship program, and that women who choose to do this are also organized in such a way that they have the opportunity to implement it. It's worrying, I think, that in terms of the start-up rate and the implementation rate, it turns out that there's a big drop-out on the road. Therefore, it is gratifying that some universities can show a high degree of completion in the case of doctoral students. In Bergen, to which the Minister of Education referred, is 47 pst. by doctoral degrees awarded by women.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e297	In this interpellation, the representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, looked at a wide range of gender equality policy and research policy issues. That today is only 13 pst. Women's professors at our universities and colleges are a major challenge for society. If there is a difference in the way men and women think, this should be reflected in the fact that both sexes are represented in the subject area. This will be qualitatively important for research. St.meld. No 35 for 2001-2002 on recruitment in the university and higher education sectors focused on specific measures for the recruitment of women. In the message one concluded that compared to other European countries, Norwegian universities and universities are not the hallmarks of a particularly high proportion of women among scientific staff. Norway is in an intermediate position, where the general image is characterised by wide gender differences, wide differences between disciplines and wide differences between job levels. Especially scientific and mathematical subjects come out weakly, with a female share of only 2 pst. by the professors of technology and 6 pst. by the Professors of Mathematical Science. The report also shows that the proportion of female professors rose slightly in all areas in the 1960s and 1970s. In the 1980s, the proportion rose somewhat faster, which means that the number of female professors rose relatively sharply. But in the 1990s, developments stagnated somewhat. The government proposed several important measures to strengthen the proportion of women in this message. One of the most important measures was the earmarking of scientific settings for women, which could be an important tool for initiating a change towards more women. The left regrets that ESA has seen one stop for this. The government also wanted, if possible, to develop a consistent incentive scheme to stimulate institutions to facilitate more women to obtain the formal qualifications for peak settings. In dealing with this message, a number also underlined the need for women’s empowerment to be a priority area for institutions. In addition, the majority emphasise the importance of good welfare provision for small children’s families, for example: kindergartens, as a tool for recruiting women and helping them to pursue a scientific career. The left hand side is of the opinion that the Government is following this message in a good way. State councils also include in their contributions the Committee for Gender Equality in the university and higher education sectors, as well as the preparation of action plans with concrete targets within different levels. Recruitment schemes are, after Left's view, one of the most important recruitment schemes for more women in the leadership settings. However, it is important that we follow developments closely, and if numbers do not get better, then an evaluation of other measures and a reinforced effort must be made. The left has been overstated that the Government will follow closely, and that the Government will implement the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e315	The theme of this interview debate is important, and there are good reasons for showing impatience in the development of the Norwegian university and higher education system at this point. I want to point to a fundamental problem, which I think has been taken too lightly so far. We simply have too little knowledge of the reasons why the career course for men and women is marked differently both in academia and in other parts of society. Too little serious research has been done to find out why there is a much larger proportion of women leaving a track that would lead to a lifelong academic career that ends with a top position. What we know is that it's actually going to be like this. It is easy to make percentages of it, but then, if you want to move on, you have to do proper interviews to find out why it is. Because it is only when the reasons are known that it is possible to find effective measures to correct the imbalances. At one point, I don't think there's much to pick up, and that's when it comes to the problem of calling compared to the usual call. First of all, it's right that the Council pointed out, that when it comes to calling ordinary professorships, it's such a microscopic feature statistically that it won't give us any results. Where the caller has entered and used to some extent, in the case of ancillary services, i.e. 1/5 annual positions, where the rules require that the person to be added is to have a principal position at another research-related institution. I think it will be a clear step back for the Norwegian system if you return to more rigid rules when it comes to collecting the top competence that exists outside of the academy, pick it up to make use of it for the guidance of doctoral students – that's essential. I don't think it'll improve the gender balance. On the other hand, there will be greater difficulties in cooperation between universities and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e322	Rolf Rikvam has asked for the floor. Sorry, Reikvam, but you only get the word once in an interpellation change. Derogations from this general rule are interpellant and State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e325	This indicates that the involvement in the hall is great in this matter! I want to thank you for this little round we've had on a theme that I think all the parties see as very important, and I would like to say very much in agreement with the representative of Skjellaa and the representative of Reikvam said in his contributions. But then the representative points to the important thing at the end, namely that if we are to be able to take targeted action, we need to know something about the reasons. After following the debate on the clamps of time in the last few days, one might say that the answer is quite simple, that women actually say no in some contexts if the choice is between the children and taking on demanding positions. I hope at least that the Council of State will follow up on what the representative on the pay side said. It would have been interesting to get a broader survey on that background. Then we also have to add up to a broad set of instruments, as Rolf Reikvam said, so that women can thrive. I think we need to dry using carrots as economic incentives, so that we can get more women out of the disciplines that we see are dominated by men today. When it comes to the question of calling, I guess there's a little bit of different perceptions in the hall at that point. We're going to have to follow it carefully. We see at least that the developments we have had in the area of calling are going in the wrong direction, and I hope that the Council of State will also follow closely on that part.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e334	I would also like to thank you for this debate and would just like to comment on a few points. First to call, as the representative Inge Wohnung and now also the interpellant was in on. I just want to refer to an exchange of letters that has taken place between the Equality Ombudsman and the University of Oslo, in order to take one institution, where it appears from the University's side that, after going into it, they do not find that there is a statistical basis for claiming that calling leads to negative discrimination. First of all, it's right, as the representative for the payroll was about, that there's not much going on in the ordinary position, but where it happens, it's for the benefit of women. It's a marginal overweight of women. In addition, Professor II, the difference appears to be small when it is checked for the subject area, i.e. that we need to address the underlying problem, which concerns recruitment into different disciplines. So there was someone in the allowance. This ESA judgment is about some sort of radical quotaing, which I fought for in the light of the fact that there had been an undisputed arrangement that the institutions themselves seemed to work well, but I do not hide that I think it has fundamental difficulties. But what all institutions can do is do moderate allowances, where you prefer the underrepresented sex to equal qualifications. It is totally undisputed in Norway in all sectors. Thirdly, many people have come up here with their manuscripts and said that we have 13 pst. female professors. I'll say another time that the number is now 16.3 pst. 13 pst. was slightly higher than the European average; 16.3 may be even higher than the rest of Europe. Then we can get used to it, because after all it's a little bit more positive, and that's the last number, from 2003. So it was about patience here. I'm not hiding that I'm emotionally more involved in some other equality issues. It's related to the fact that in the area we're discussing here, we're on the right track. But in the second field I mentioned in my post, we're on the wrong track. In other words, when it comes to the gender balance at school, or in kindergartens for that part, it does not evolve in the wrong direction, in the right direction. Then I get more worried. When discussing reasons for which Inge Wohnung was involved, I believe that a cause in the short term is, of course, a time squeeze, but a cause in the long term, a real underlying reason, is that Norway has one of the world's most gender-segmented labour markets. We show that to our children. They see what the role models are, and it reproduces to new generations. Then we can wonder how we've got such a sex-segregated labour market. It's an interesting discussion, but I don't think we have time for the remaining 20 seconds. But when it comes to investigating the causes more in the short term for the women concerned, who are going to make a career, I mentioned in my post that NIFU has been given such a mission, to investigate women's way into, within and out of the academy. They will provide their investigation and report in the autumn of 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e349	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e367	Lack of space and ill-organised outdoor areas are a general problem in many schools. This prevents children from being physically active. The government has adopted a manifesto against bullying, and there is a cross-political desire for more physical activity in school. Through formal objectives in L97, outreach activity is encouraged through the objective of health promotion, physical activity, play, practice and experience. It is our responsibility to provide quality outdoors in our schools. Now, if we're going to meet the goal of the single school and the common school of organized education, we're going to have to look more closely at the schoolyards and deliberately bet on the schoolyards and the outdoors there. Space has been partly a neglected area, and there has been far too little focus on outdoor areas as areas where both resources and resources should be used to get good, qualitative uplifting of the school. Children and young people spend more and more time at school, both in educational and leisure settings. School days have been extended from first to fourth grade, and large numbers of students are in the school leisure system from first to fourth grade. The school's outdoor areas have therefore gained increased importance, not least for physical activity and thereby for children's health and well-being. NIBR has studied four schools and revealed major differences. In some schoolyards, children have nine times as large an area to cling to as in others. Some schools are characterized by asphalt, while others have large areas of nature. NIBR believes that the design of schools has a major impact on children and young people in being physically active and on the social environment at school. When space is scarce, the activity pattern is limited, and there are more rules on where to go and what to do there. Other research has shown that there is a lot of bullying in schoolyards, which can simply be because children are bored. NIBR has not studied bullying explicitly, but they have recorded higher activity levels and less frustration and pushing where there is enough space and a diversity of activity opportunities. Where there was limited space, the football was a dominant activity for the boys, while the girls were standing on the sideline as passive spectators, afraid to get the ball in their heads. In an interview in the evening post a few weeks ago, a teacher from Skøyen School, one of the schools that has a large and good outdoor area, said that he ‘very much notices that there will be fewer conflicts. They're running out of things. They get to go on without too many rules, then the people who apply become folk." It said a happy teacher to the Evening Post. This teacher has also worked at different other schools in Oslo and is well aware of what the outdoors do with the students. Is there a requirement for the size and design of the school's outdoor area? No, the authorities have not required or established standards for the outdoor area of the school. For livestock – for comparison – e.g. cage hens and other types of animals, there are standards and requirements. In 2002, an addition was adopted to the Law on Primary and Secondary Education of 17 July 1998, chap. 9a, about the students' school environment. The Act entered into force on 1 April 2003. The following is stated in Section 9a-1: ‘All pupils in primary and secondary schools are entitled to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning.’ Section 9a-2, on the physical environment, states: ‘Schools shall be planned, built, organized and run in such a way as to take care of the safety, health, well-being and learning of students.The physical environment of the school shall be in accordance with the professional standards recommended by the competent authorities at all times.’ Professional authorities do not have such standards as regards outdoor areas for schools. I know that the Learning Centre has established a web portal on school facilities. On these websites, outdoor areas have been mentioned, and some recommendations have been made. But there is more to availability and universal design, not standards and requirements. The Social and Health Directorate has recently produced a report focusing on the need for land standards and instruments for school outlying areas. One of the key questions is whether to impose requirements on the outlying areas of the school and in case of what requirements. The issue is discussed both in terms of area per head. students, lighting conditions and the possibility of physical activity. It is pointed out that the challenge is highest at secondary school level, as students are at least physically active. The report recommends that concrete requirements be made for the school's outdoor areas in several areas. It is recommended, inter alia, that: in the report setting an area requirement of at least 50 m2 per. pupils for new school facilities. I would like to quote from the introduction of the foreword to the report of the Social and Health Directorate: ‘School’s outdoor areas, such as the arena for physical activity among children and young people, are a central theme of the Social and Health Directorate. The background is that children and young people spend more and more time at school, both in educational and leisure settings. As a result, the outdoor areas of schools have become more important, not least for physical activity and thereby for children’s health and well-being. At the same time, we see that the areas are under pressure and are often worked up in a way that is not appropriate in relation to today's needs." The aim of my interpellation is to focus on an area that I believe has been neglected for a long time and which should be focused on. The external area of schools is an important theme and should be an important theme in the setting up of the Quality Committee this spring. The outdoor area has not been seen as part of the school area. As I pointed out, laws and regulations have been passed on the physical and mental environment in the indoor areas of school, but not in the outdoor areas. This is why my challenge to the Council of State is: What concrete action will the Council of State take, and what plans will it have in the future to set out standards and standards for our students?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e410	Government policy emphasises local freedom of action and trust in local solutions. Norwegian schools and schoolyards are – and must be – very different, depending on where they are located in the country, how many children are there, what age levels schools are arranged for, and how old the buildings and facilities are. Differences are positive, but at the same time, the physical environment must, of course, be well-organised both indoor and outdoor by school owners. The new provision of the Education Act on the school environment requires that schools be planned, built, organised and operated so as to take into account the safety, health, well-being and learning of students. It further states that the physical environment must comply with the professional standards recommended by professional authorities at all times and that deviations from such standards require evidence from the school that conditions are still satisfactory. Regulation for environmental health protection requires good functions and safety. It says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘The outdoor areas of kindergartens and schools should be designed to provide good opportunities for play, social contact and recreation for all seasons in all types of weather.’ In addition, user involvement has also been strengthened in the new legal paragraph, as a provision that a student, parent or one of the advices of the school can ask for measures to correct physical conditions and have them dealt with as a single decision. In his question, the representative Jensen assumes that narrow school grounds are a direct cause for a poor social environment and thus bullying. The image must be more nuanced. There are many other known causes that affect the psychosocial environment in a school, and we have many examples that a conscious effort on the part of the school has a positive impact on the environment regardless of physical conditions at school. That being said, it is, of course, true that some school owners face major challenges in facilitating the physical environment for a good social environment. In the large cities, schools are often large and outlying areas are small, and land expansion is not possible due to surrounding settlements. But this isn't the picture anywhere else in the country. Throughout, many schools have very good areas at school and right around the school. The government is concerned that children and young people will also have opportunities for physical activity within the school day. In its study, the Quality Committee has proposed physical activity for students every day. The organisation of this activity is, of course, easier in rural schools with a liberal outdoor area than in major urban schools, but it is of course equally important for all children. The topic will be discussed in more detail in the main message on initial training, which will be presented later in the spring. I have just, together with the Council of State, launched the project ‘Physical Activity and Meals in School’, just to try out different models of daily physical activity. The project will go over the school year 2004/2005, and I will follow the project and the experience done there carefully. My hope is that the different models tested in the project will also show what opportunities are available in schools that are narrow and where students have limited areas to develop. There is already some activity in the field of physical activity in many schools, including: based on the Swedish ‘Bunkeflo model’, where cooperation with sports teams is an important element. I was with and launched something similar in connection with the EU year ‘Education through sport’, also in Norway. However, it is not the case that the school should take over responsibility for the level of activity of children and young people. Most of this has to be organised at school in any case during leisure time, and parents have the primary responsibility for the physical and mental health of their children. The government is a central party in the Manifesto against bullying. The Ministry of Education and Research has the coordinating responsibility for manifestry and has supported various measures to reduce the incidence of bullying and unwanted behaviour in schools. The various measures have proved to be effective, and both the Student Inspectors website and other well-being studies show that bullying is gradually being reduced. Targeted school effort results, regardless of the size of the outdoor area and equipment. The 2004 government budget continues the system of interest compensation for loans to school facilities. Until 1 August 2003, 294 municipalities and counties had applied for support under this financial instrument. The selection of demonstration schools also focuses on the physical and psychosocial environment. The documentation must make efforts and results visible in relation to work with values, including: to combat bullying, racism, violence, crime and the use of drugs. The school should be able to refer to work on physical activity and diet, and to efforts to create good training situations for all groups of students, including: for disabled and linguistic minorities. Documentation demonstrating systematic work for a safe physical and psychosocial school environment is also a requirement for the school owner’s price to be distributed annually in cooperation with the KS. The Educational Centre has been entrusted with the task of developing a school facility supervisor as part of the further development and provision of counselling services for new buildings, rehabilitation and upgrading of school facilities. In this context, the Learning Centre has also established a dedicated website with much useful information. At school facilities.ls.no, school owners can get tips and guidance on school facilities. They can ask questions and discuss issues. Norwegian Form has the secretariat function for the award of a school construction price, which is also one of the tasks of the Educational Centre on behalf of the Ministry. I have just received a report prepared by the Social and Health Directorate, with proposals for the design of the schools' outdoor areas, and will consider how the proposals in the report are to be addressed, but already signal that I am not initially very attracted by this type of management of the municipalities. The school port.no website, which is used during the spring as part of the national quality assessment system, shall provide information on different aspects of learning outcomes, the learning environment and resource use in Norwegian schools. If information on the physical conditions of schools is considered interesting for the overall assessment of the quality of training, this can be included as a theme in the school portal.no. In this way, both national and local school authorities and the public will be able to learn how school owners have organized the physical environment, and comparisons could be made if desired. The content of the school portal.no will be subject to continuous assessment and development in relation to what we want to know. The Government has a number of measures to refer to in terms of organisation, incentive schemes and support measures in the area referred to by the Interpellation. It is important to stress that the outdoor area around a school is the school owner’s responsibility, but often more actors than the school are users of the area, and it requires the organisation of coordinated efforts by the actors concerned. Such joint efforts have been facilitated at national level, in particular through the scheme of support for community facilities, which can also be used for school facilities administered by the Ministry of Culture and the Church. I am concerned that we should show up and disseminate the good examples, as well as stimulate good development and exciting actions through various incentive schemes, but I am not a member of detailed management in the development of Norwegian school, whether content or physical framework. I think we can safely say that new and rehabilitated schools in Norway today are very nice, with a high emphasis on outdoor areas and location – to the extent that you can decide. This does not indicate that local politicians are less concerned with this than we national politicians are – perhaps rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e451	I thank you for your answer. First, if there is any doubt in the House, I would like to state that SV stands for municipal autonomy. We want to strengthen it. This proposal and the theme I am addressing today do not go against strengthening municipal autonomy, because both municipalities and schools work actively in relation to outdoor areas. But there's a fact today that there's a very big difference between the outdoors from school to school and for the individual student, as I mentioned in my introduction. The Council of State says that she will not support what the Social and Health Directorate's report recommends, that for new schools to be built, an area requirement of at least 50 m2 per. student. We have many bad outings in schools today that need to be done with. In many places it is difficult to expand the school area, but it is entirely possible to do something about the content. In a lot of schools it's asphalt, and it's not organized for physical activity at all. I believe that some standards, both for the indoor environment and in a variety of areas that you want to prioritise, are precisely something that the Storting has to adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e460	I think that the shelves of municipal self-government are easy to become a party speaker, if you say a minute later that you have to make indicative demands and set standards for the municipalities. I just want to comment on two sides of this. The interpellant here says there's a difference in outdoor areas. Yes, of course! My kids live in this town. They go on -- I saw that in the paper -- the school that's going to have one of the smallest outdoor areas in Oslo. Then it's probably one of the smallest in the country. It's just that it's built around the school. We live in a town. It is probably also so that I can claim that my children have more traffic than many other children in the country have on their school path. But there is simply a difference between city and country, and we cannot lift all the laws of nature. That's why it's in itself also free for people to choose whether they want to live in the country or in the city. You can have different priorities. I think, as I've said before, that I have a high visiting activity behind me in Norwegian schools. My claim would be that it is primarily a city phenomenon that the schoolyards and the outdoor areas are narrow. The normal picture is, when you travel around, for the first major school areas, but also often very large areas right around the school, sports facilities, etc., which seem to be a city man to be very safe. It's the picture around the country. However, it is difficult to impose, for example: Majorstua school to expand its outdoor areas, because there are simply buildings there that have to be demolished in that case. So the question is, are we going to make demands on new schools that are being built? There's my claim that that's not necessary. My impression is, when I visit new schools, that they are very nice, and that local politicians have been concerned that the location is good and safe, and that there are outdoors in the vicinity of the school, whether it's forest or other, that give students a rich opportunity to stay in a safe environment, and also get education and training out there. So overall, you can regret that there are some places that are tight, but that's basically the way it is, and all the inconveniences can't be lifted by the politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e473	The Labour Party believes that both the physical and psychosocial environment in school are of great importance and that all students in Norway should be guaranteed a school environment and a health-friendly training situation, promote social protection and well-being and provide good conditions for learning. When amending the Training Act in spring 2002, it was established that students have the right to a good physical and psychosocial environment. The treatment focused on the physical indoor climate, with a background in the situation of school construction, and focused on the psychosocial environment — the pupils’ relationship — linked to preventing bullying, violence and harassment. But the committee also stressed that one had to look at the students ’ school days as a whole. Of course, outdoor environments will also be included here, and this has a significant impact on, among other things. the psychosocial environment. But I'm afraid that a focus of x is the number of square meters per. students and key provisions on this will easily derail the debate on many other factors in order to ensure a good working environment for students. We know that physical activity and fresh air help to boost learning outcomes and ensure health and well-being. The working party will therefore be involved in the follow-up to the quality selection process in order to increase physical activity in primary schools, among others. in the case of increased hours in primary school. Of course, outlying areas are important, but there are many possibilities for physical activity even if the physical outdoor area can be restricted. It's a fact that our schools are scattered across the country, and that's good. At the same time, of course, it means huge inequalities in outdoor areas, but it's not necessarily an obstacle to getting a good outdoor environment. It is now the case that a school in the capital centre and a school in scattered areas have quite different conditions for outdoor use and use, but this does not prevent a person from maintaining a good outdoor environment. That's what needs to be focused. The outdoor environment is not solely dependent on physical constraints in the outdoor area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e484	Many measures have been taken to improve the school environment of pupils. A government loan scheme for the renovation of school buildings, a new work environment law for pupils have been adopted today, and the Government’s commitment is to improve the psychosocial school environment for students. These are actions that have been launched with a background to identified needs and to improve training and well-being for students. School owners today have a responsibility for the school environment, both for teachers and for students. This also applies to the part of the school environment that the representative Jensen addresses today. I'm not quite sure what the Socialist Left signals, as the interpellation text is formulated. Is there a need for a stronger standardisation of the design of outdoor areas? Or do you want to introduce stricter minimum State standards also for school farms? The design of outlying areas is, as mentioned, very different at the different schools in Norway. This is positive in itself. In addition, the physical conditions of the outings of schools are very different from those of schools to schools, and, as mentioned above, also from municipalities to municipalities. Of course, urban schools face greater challenges in terms of space than non-pressurised schools. This is in many ways an advantage for the schools outside the city. It has been said that idle time is the root of all evil. It's probably as important in school as it is in society. Experience shows that students with a good outdoor area that facilitates activity reduce the possibility of conflicts between students. It is therefore important that school owners also focus on the outlying areas of the schools when designing school offerings for students. There are many schools today that have a good offer for the students, even when they are out. It is therefore important that good ideas and solutions are spread to all school owners, so that both new and old outdoor areas can improve. The right is skeptical in specifying key detailed requirements for the design of schools, but it will also take into account that good examples and experience are to be disseminated to as many school owners as possible. Although there are some schools with poor outdoor areas, there are countless examples of the opposite. It was mentioned from the interpellant that an area requirement of 50 m2 per. students who have been identified in a report. One has to be very careful about making specified demands because some other interests may conflict when building new schools, for example.: Should the school be close to where the student lives, or do you make such strict demands that municipalities and school owners have to build the school so far away that the students get a long school route? That's why I think this is a topic where it's important not to be too rigid and make for detailed rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e499	It is true that the interpellant refers to a change in the law in the training law that gives students the right to a good physical and psychosocial environment, and it also refers to a manifesto against bullying. These are good measures that have improved school conditions. I also think that in many places the schoolyards can be made even better, among other things. to strengthen the physical activity. In many places they are doing this well, including: because there has just been a focus on bullying. Studies show that bullying and conflict are decreasing if schoolyards are made larger, more varied and challenging. It can be read in the report to which the interpellant refers, from the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research, called «Skolegården – Jungl or Luftegården?». It says that in a number of schools, children are not given the opportunity to expand in their spare minutes. Strangling outdoors makes students passive and destroys the social environment at school. Of course, opportunities to be in physical activity will help with this, we have a lot of examples of that. So the most important measure that we in the Christian People's Party see now is just to spread the good examples, just as the Council of State was about. I want to refer to the Landslag Physical Fostring in School that helps schools to facilitate student activities in school. An example is the information brochure for the Winter week, which is now sent out to all physical exercise teachers and to the FAU at all schools. Technical information is provided on winter outdoor life and ideas for the teachers in planning and project work. They also provide a ‘leakperm’ with teacher guidance on how to stimulate schools to use time to play. It's simply to put these things into practice! Students taking the physical training course at our teacher training institutions also learn about arrangements for outings in schools. And in many schools, physical exercise teachers are taking the initiative to improve the outdoor areas of schools. Sometimes it's the municipality that's behind it. I can mention the municipality of Karmøy. They called for inspirational courses, including: school leaders, teachers, parents' committees, technical offices and cultural offices to gain an understanding of the importance of a good outdoor environment. Both funds and municipal funds have financed the project. I have seen the same in several municipalities in Vestfold. At Kjeldås school in Sande, for example. in a few days' time, they will dedicate their new outdoor project, which will include both a jumping hill and a slab, a climbing wall and a football wall, a youth spoon and a table tennis table. Many hours of hard work are behind both parents and teachers. But they've been together from the very first moment, and the municipality has followed up when the principal has inspired the school community to engage in a good outdoor environment at school. They've gotten funds both from the county game and from the tipping agents. Yes, often there are fire souls that set in motion, and the spirit of hard work. This creates a good social environment where parents, students and employees at school work together, because they have seen that a good physical and mental environment is important for getting a good learning environment. This can also be referred to by several demonstration schools and bonus schools. So there's a lot of examples. And it's not hard to find this on the Internet either – even I found out several of these examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e510	This has become a bit of a strange debate. The government used most of its responses to frame up a lot of good things that the government has done. Some of that had something to do with the interpellation. Here it is about lifting natural laws, like there is a lack of trust in local politicians. The most important thing this interpellation is about, I think is the view of learning. What kind of vision do we actually have of learning? And when is learning going on? That's the basic question that we should really discuss when we talk about the school yard – both learning and learning situations. The outdoor and outdoor areas of a school yard are also an important learning area for the children at the time they are in school. But this probably shows that the right and the left have a slightly different view of learning. I'll probably think that the right is largely concerned with what's going on inside the traditional classroom, about the relationship between teacher and students inside the classroom. But there's a lot of learning going on in the schoolyard as well, and it's important that we add the right schoolyard so that this learning venue is also a good learning venue, and that one avoids situations that prevent learning, for example, from trying to avoid situations of bullying, etc. That's what this is really about. Then we can discuss whether it's right to give rules on the number of square meters or how to set up the schoolyard, and we can disagree on the trust or lack of trust in local politicians. I belong to those who have great confidence in local politicians. Nevertheless, sometimes it may be important, even though I have great confidence in local politicians, that we give some leadership, give some recommendations, provide guidance and advice to those who are going to decorate and facilitate the schoolyard. That is the kind of debate we are inviting. Do we want to be part of this? Could it be a task for us to share in giving some leadership, giving some recommendations and giving some advice, assuming that the schoolyard is also a learning venue?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e522	After all, Rikham's speeches turned the debate in a slightly different direction. Because I have actually perceived this debate and the post from the interpellant to that one in a way invites the Stortinget to go in for some minimum standards and some norms that will apply to the whole country. I take a great distance from that. The centre party does not want any minimum standards or standards on the layout of the playgrounds in the schools around it. Physical activity, in the opinion of the Centre Party, is very important for children in school, and the Centre Party has actually presented it in several contexts. We've actually suggested one hour of physical activity every day, and I'm glad the government seems to be following those intentions. I also think the combination of healthy food and physical activity, which there have been some attempts here in Oslo, is exciting. It actually means a lot to children's ability to learn. So I also think, like what the interpellant and others have said, that the outdoor areas around the school are important. But it's important to realize that the surface area is different depending on where we are. It has been said in the debate several times in the past that in Oslo there are clearly limited opportunities in terms of area. But the experience we do when we're around and we see is that there are a lot of exciting outdoor areas around the schools, large areas with sports facilities, etc. related, which really provides opportunities for the school to also organise physical activity, where children can really be allowed to unfold. Strict requirements for the design of toys are not mentioned. But it is not something we have decided here in Norway, it is an EEA directive that has led to toys and equipment actually having to be reduced in many places – and it is expensive to acquire new ones that are in line with the rules, etc. But there's nothing that we at the Stortinget have decided, that's something they've decided in Brussels. And you can ask questions about some of those directives. I also want to say that. However, my impression is that the school owners, i.e. the municipalities, in fact, place great emphasis on securing the outdoor areas of the schools. One sees, in particular, when new schools are being built, that really exciting measures are being put in place. Something that has also secured good outdoor areas is that we have a lot of small schools around. Centralisation often reduces the transparency of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e536	As I said in a previous post, I have traveled this interpellation because I see the outdoors as part of the school area, part of the learning and the possibility of learning that students are to be given. When the Council of State says that all the inconveniences you can't decide from, it's probably right. But something actually needs to be fixed, both as a norm and as a rule. It's actually not like I was in favour of a work environment law for the students because I didn't trust the schools, the parents and the teachers to organize the school environment for the students they could best, but because I wanted to focus on the students' inner environment and the students as individuals. When I travel this interpellation, it's because you see that the outdoor areas of the schools are so much different around. In the context of school contents, you talk about what kind of tools you need to get a good school. We've been talking about school library, and we've been talking about books, but we haven't talked about outdoors. A lot of schoolyards have only one football field, but you don't have balls, and you don't have loops for the girls. It is not typical to have organized school areas and tools that make students active. These are the tools I want the Council of State to grasp, and these are the tools I want the Storting to take a discussion about, and that you also look at the development of the field at school as part of the school and part of the activity that's going on there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e547	I'm not hiding that I think this may have evolved into a bit of a strange debate. Rolf Reikvam says that this is about the view of learning and the schoolyard as the learning arena, that it's where we have different views. But I have to remind you that the question asked in the interpellation is: ‘What are the plans of the Council of State to improve the land, equipment and facilities of the schools, and what action will it take?’ Four pages of text I answered that question. Then I got a follow-up question about what state standards we were going to impose. I replied that I am not a supporter of such measures, because I believe in municipal autonomy. Then Rolf Reikvam says that we have to be able to discuss, and then many fine words come like norms, rules, guidance, advice, leadership and recommendations. But I think we have to hold on to the fact that the state can govern through laws, regulations, etc., and then it's de facto to override municipal autonomy somehow, that is. Depriving the municipal self-government of freedom of action. The other way we can control is not to do it, but to give advice, spread the good examples, etc., but that's fundamentally something else. This is to turn open doors, it has all been discussed in this matter. I put great emphasis on the importance of giving advice, giving advice from professional environments, spreading good examples, using demonstration schools, websites, etc. – My answer was full of those kinds of examples. I even went so far – when Lena Jensen finally talked about that when we otherwise discuss quality, we are willing to discuss all sorts of tools – that I said we could consider implementing this kind of thing in the national quality assessment system. It seems to me that Stortinget here agrees quite well, but that it could be a good idea to have a very small group meeting in SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e563	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e577	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The rapporteur on the matter, Aud Gaundal, is stuck on the train, has been notified to the President. That is why the first speaker is Grethe Fossli.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e588	I do not need to spend 5 minutes speaking time in this case, since I am standing-in for the case rapporteur and have been informed relatively late. It is true in this case that an almost unanimous committee is satisfied with the response of the Council of State, that he will make temporary derogations from the procedural requirements of the Procurement Regulation when purchasing health and social services from non-governmental organisations. The majority of the committee is therefore very satisfied in the matter. There is really nothing more to say about it, since the matter has also been raised before by other big business representatives by letter to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e595	Then the next speaker is Øystein Hedstrom. The list of speakers is not entirely in accordance with the representatives present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e598	I am pleased to get to the early part of the debate. The proposal of the Socialist Left on a general derogation from the public procurement legislation for the purchase of health and social services will not be heard in the Stortinget. Although EEA legislation, including the Services Directive, does not oblige the contracting countries to put health and social services out of competition, the Economic and Social Committee opposes the complete exclusion of these services from the rules on public procurement. On the other hand, an overall committee supports a temporary derogation from the procedural requirements of the Procurement Regulation concerning the purchase of health and social services by non-governmental organisations. The amendment to the regulation has already been introduced with immediate effect. The government’s justification is that it is important to assess the important role of humanitarian organisations and how they are to be carried out, by avoiding negative consequences of competitive outsourcing involving purely commercial activities. Of course, Christian and non-profit institutions have responded positively to the exception. They call it a saying of reason and hope it will be permanent. Now they drop some of their exposures and concentrate as much on economics. On the other hand, there is the National Association of Service Companies, which organizes businesses that run private care businesses, where you are in ethnicity. The director of the association Petter Furulund assesses actions to stop the exemption provision. He states to the Municipal Report that if the Council of State believes that NPISHs should live a protected life on the one hand and in the next round be involved in tenders and compete with members of the National Association, for example. on the operation of nursing homes, everyone understands that this is unprincipled. The Progress Party supports the temporary derogation for non-governmental organisations, but we are uncertain whether it should be made a permanent derogation. Good use of resources is also important. When the public sector chooses a more expensive supplier than necessary, it means higher costs for taxpayers, a reduced service offer or a combination of both. Countries, counties and municipalities act annually for approx. NOK 220 billion. Even without the temporary derogation now in place, studies show that public agencies and politicians often do not follow the law when they acquire. There are indications that cartel activities and camaraderie continue to be practised and that the masculinity factor and lack of local competence flourish. It would be unfortunate if the exemption introduced would result in far fewer citizens being able to receive healthcare at the right time and at a reasonable cost. Today, we have an estimated 380 nursing homes and institutions run by Christian and humanitarian organisations. They're making an important effort. At the same time, many of these organisations are professional and experienced actors and have good opportunities to assert themselves in healthy competition. Nevertheless, it is important to assess the significant efforts of humanitarian organisations. Not everything can be assessed on a competitive basis. It is also necessary to look at possible societal impacts and specificities related to the role of non-governmental organisations as service providers in order to avoid potential negative impacts of procurement rules. The assessments carried out should also discuss the options for alternative support to the abovementioned organisations. In conclusion, the work now carried out by the Government in relation to the evaluation and revision of procurement legislation must also mean that the position of NPISHs is fully assessed, including possible long-term consequences and effects of exemptions. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party, referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e621	The representative of Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to. Now it looks like the speakers have arrived at the hall, so let's see if we get a neatness in the order.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e626	I really didn't intend to spend so much time on this matter. I should not say that it was the representative Hedstrom who provoked me. He didn't do it in any way. However, for the sake of order, I think it may be correct to simply state that although the Progress Party has promoted an alternative proposal, there is a broad consensus in the Chamber on this matter. Knowing that we have a procurement code, a tendering code, with thresholds to deal with, and that we have an EEA law to deal with, which, however, exempts the purchase of health and social services, I believe that we are very much in agreement to follow what the Government is actually putting up with here. The Government has decided to introduce a temporary derogation from the obligation to conduct open competition in the purchase of health and social services from NPISHs, and the Government shall return quickly with proposals for the implementation of measures in this sector, so that the requirement of open competition does not go beyond the social involvement of NPISHs. In fact, I think this is going to happen before this two-year deadline that the Progress Party is proposing here. That's why I think we all have the same approach to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e633	This is a case promoted by SV, a so-called Document No. Eight proposals. We are very pleased that there has been such a positive response from the Council of State that one is willing to do this exception for non-governmental organisations. For us this is therefore a good day. There are not always such suggestions getting such a quick and positive feedback. This way, I could really just have stopped here. But I want to say a little about the voluntary organizations that many of us admire for the idealism and efforts that are being put down. The fact that we have liberality to treat them in some way other than we treat commercial organizations, I think it's important. We hope from our side that this exception will not only be temporary, but that you will be able to have a duration beyond what it is now added to. My call to the Council of State is that it is being worked for this to be a permanent scheme that the voluntary organisations can use in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e642	First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction with the value and appreciation of private organisations’ importance for Norwegian social development in general – and especially before this sector – that underpins the outcome of this case. It's very joyful, and it's a necessary recognition. The issue of whether it should be possible for municipalities to enter into contracts with voluntary organisations on health and social services without outsourcing is exciting, but also very topical. We have a discussion about the design of a future pension system, because population trends show that fewer and fewer young people are going to finance the welfare of more and more older people. This means that we need all available hands – and a little more. Nothing needs to be done, and the worst thing we can do is to put obstacles in the form of laws and regulations restricting this. When we look at the needs of the health and social sector in the future, it is easy to imagine what kind of opportunities and challenges we will face. As stated in the Minister's letter of reply, public purchases of goods and services amount to no less than 200 billion kroner a year. Of this, the health and social sector again represents significant amounts of money, which will not be reduced in the future. What is important is that authorities and society provide the best possible use of available resources and that voluntary organisations become secure frameworks that support the broad societal exposure of such organisations. For the Christian People's Party, the voluntary work that is put into teams and organizations means a lot. It represents an idealism and an understanding of and a concern for others whom we greatly appreciate. It's about what kind of values we have for our fellow human beings, but also about what kind of societies we want. With regard to EEA legislation and the Services Directive, it appears that there is no obligation for EEA countries to put health and social services on a competitive footing. Although there has been a variety of, and partly limited, experience in organising competition in health and care services in the public sector in Norway, I see that, in the future, there may be a need for specific measures of competence relating to the ordering and definition of such services. I also understand the view expressed in the Minister's letter of reply that the best possible use of resources, openness, justice and transparency is important in areas where the public has decided not to do the work on its own, but to open up to competition. The advantage of the form of competition may be that it both stimulates the public to define the service better, and makes the providers provide their best. Having said this, I am very pleased that the Minister is opening up in the short term to suggest to the Government that one can make a preliminary derogation from the procedural requirements of the procurement regulation when purchasing health and social services from voluntary organisations. That the Minister will further look at a more comprehensive assessment of the possible long-term exemption from the purchase of health and social services from such organisations, and assess the economic and administrative consequences of such an exemption, I am very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e659	There is reason to be very satisfied with the decision taken today. In fact, it also gives a certain hope that the Minister of Industry is exceptionally willing to use reason in relation to his usually Negroic admiration for the blessing of competition in an important matter like this. I am very pleased about that. What remains is to make this exception permanent. I think there is a common desire in this room that the position of voluntary and non-profit organisations in the care sector be properly taken care of. That will be the next challenge for the Minister of Health. That the commercial actors are dissatisfied, I can in a way understand, but that may be the case. On the part of the Centre Party, we want to strengthen the public operation of the care sector, and we want to maintain the position of the ideal and voluntary organisations. This can be ensured by the decision taken here today. Then it says its test that there are some who are dissatisfied with today's decision. There's every reason to be satisfied with what's happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e668	The representative, Mr Enoksen, spoke of the Council of State’s ‘normally necesary admiration’ for competition. I think I share that view with probably the entire storeroom that it is very wise that we manage the public funds as rationally as possible and ensure that they reach as far as possible. The starting point also for the provision of services to the health and social sector should be that, in cases where you wish to have it for account other than that of the municipality itself, you have competition for this, in short and well in order to create the best possible offer for the money that Stortinget has granted to each municipality. It is and will also be the basic in the future. So it's saying that in this sector we don't have to forget the historical reality, that non-governmental organisations have actually been with and built up very large parts of what was both care and social care, and in other ways. There is a historically long link to the fact that these have made a great effort through volunteering. Then we have a regulation for public acquisitions that I do not want to use the expression nesegrus admiration about. But the undersigned is very careful to ensure that these rules are complied with, because public funds, tax revenue collected, must reach as far as possible in order to provide the best possible range of services for the care of drug users, for social protection, etc. We can do that in a good combination by now taking a review and looking at these 380 institutions to see if this is a difference. There may be reason for some to have permanent exemptions, while others operate more commercially, and then that purpose is not so necessary to be achieved. But the most important thing is that this is really just giving the municipalities the freedom to choose for themselves. It is not a requirement not to put off competition. The municipalities that want to do it, of course, have a full opportunity to do it. I see in the settings that it is a unanimous committee that thinks it is a wise idea The government came on 11 January, that we take a review to see what we are going to do permanently. I believe that I can already promise to be over-filled with the proposal to limit the temporary testing procedure to two years. It's probably going a lot faster than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e687	It will be interesting to see developments and the role that humanitarian organisations will play in the future in this huge market. I've been thinking about it a little bit. We support, to underline it, the setting – which is unanimous – but we have been unsure whether to make it a permanent arrangement. In some municipalities, it may not be possible to launch competition but to go directly to a humanitarian organisation. You can imagine that the organisation, which does not have competition, increases its margin in that municipality. Then you have other municipalities that are non-socialistically overthrown, for example. Oslo Municipality, where there is a sharp tendering process. One might imagine that the same humanitarian organization is in competition, for example. in Oslo, and because you can take high margins in other municipalities without competition – that is, some kind of cross-subsidisation – you can get the lowest bid in Oslo. Does the Council of State consider this to be a matter of principle and could it break EEA law?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e694	The representative Hedstrom began his line with ‘in an imaginary situation’. Then I came up with a formulation that I have read in a book by Trygve Bratteli: he always failed to answer questions that began with ‘in a thoughtful situation’. In an imaginary situation, you can actually think of anything. The possibility of cross-subsidisation, which the representative took up as an imaginary situation, will not be different for non-governmental organisations than for commercial companies, which have both received a job without a tender in one municipality and a different contract for a tender in another municipality. With regard to the possibility of cross-subsidisation, there will be no difference, whether you are a voluntary organisation or a commercial company.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e701	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e706	As co-sponsor, SV and I are very pleased with the outcome of this case. We've seen for a number of years how humanitarian organisations, non-governmental organisations, have had a strong social commitment, both in Oslo and around the country. I have seen in my own municipality of homes, Alta, how in its time the Church of Freedom and Pentecost helped to build up orphanages, nursing homes and old-age homes, in a strong social commitment. Then the municipality has come into stronger and stronger cooperation and has partly taken over the functions of humanitarian organisations. In Oslo you can see how the Salvation Army is out in the environment of the most vulnerable, whether people are struggling with alcohol abuse, or people with substance problems, and taking them into the heat, taking care of them. They've built an organization to make sure they don't fall outside. For SV, it seems quite absurd if you were to put the services of organisations that have done a job that no one else could have done after. You couldn't have done it more reasonably, and you couldn't have done it better. Instead of creating the kind of insecurity that would only have resulted in a reduction in the provision of services to those who needed it the most, it has been important for SV to provide predictability to the organisations so that they can continue to operate, keep their premises and be in the field and provide humanitarian assistance over time. I record that the Progress Party, as the only party, has a completely different approach, and I have to say that I'm very surprised that you don't see these aspects. Whatever else one might feel about putting out competition, it may not be appropriate to undermine the ability of humanitarian organisations to make just a humanitarian effort over time. That would be the consequence of not exempting them from normal conditions of competition when it comes to putting them out of competition. I record what the Council of State says about volunteering in relation to individual municipalities, but it is clear that SV will be of the opinion that if individual municipalities launch competition in relation to the companies we have mentioned here, it will be unfortunate. We hope and believe that with the changes that come here, this will not happen in Norwegian municipalities. It will ring the bells of voluntary organisations and ensure that they still have the opportunity to assist in humanitarian work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e721	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1873]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e736	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e743	I'll try to use less than five minutes and just say that the committee is cool, and especially sober, with St. gendi. No 17, which shows in a clear and proper way the implementation of the raw fish laws and the fish export laws in 2001 and 2002. There's a couple of things we can notice. It turns out once again that the fishing industry is one of the pillars of the Norwegian economy, and will be in the future, if we make sense of the renewable resource. The Committee has also chosen a transit system for EU vessels from 1 May 2004. The Committee is satisfied that this is being implemented by the Norwegian Governing Board and that requirements for resource and veterinary controls are being identified as the key elements of the scheme. We have also noted that the European Commission is united in this view. We hope that the Government will take an evaluation, and that we will receive an appropriate response to the Storting on how this has been done. Furthermore, I think it is important to note that the regulations put in place by the control body and the government in the case of fish poultry, both on land and at sea, seem to have an effect. Similarly, the revision work that has now been done in relation to the landing seat seems to be a reasonable revision. The Committee asks that the Storting receive feedback on how this has worked and will work. Therefore, a group committee will only raw to St.meld. No 17 will be added to the meeting book.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e756	I wondered for a moment whether we had become the second largest part of Stortinget, but I understand that I will take the signal and limit my post as well. I could almost have signed my statements by the case manager. We have a minority comment in the form of the Senter Party that problematizes the transit system that was a consequence of the extended EEA agreement. We believe that allowing transit is directly contrary to the Raw Fish Act, and we are therefore promoting a proposal to deal with the extended EEA agreement last week in relation to this. But what we're busy about today, in this case, is that one gets in place control systems that are good enough. Sallagen has as its job to ensure that the quantity of fish landed is recorded. It's an important control function, and we can't see that this will not apply to transit landings as well. I'm going to be careful in this round just to say that this is something that we hope to get in place in a satisfactory way. This control is incredibly important, and it also applies to transit landings. And then we'd better deal with things at later conditions if it turns out that one doesn't get in place a satisfactory order in relation to this. The case-speaker might have given a few words in relation to how the raw fish law works, but it may be contrary to the case-speaker's party program. We will also have that debate later, when we do not have just an ordinary annual report to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e767	If I understood the case rapporteur correctly, he said that the committee was pleased that a transit system was in place. If that is what the rapporteur said, it does not apply to a unanimous committee. The Committee has noted that a transit system was in place, but, as was stated by the previous speakers, the Central Party and the SV have a specific comment that goes on this with the transit system. The rest of the implementation of the raw fish law is history. It is possible that I have heard errors in relation to what the rapporteur said. Our objection is in relation to several points. It's still going to be 20 pst. of the quantity landed in Norway is landed by foreign vessels. Now there is relatively little of this coming from EU vessels. What will happen in the future, when one opens up for transit, is difficult to predict. But I think there is indeed reason to fear that at the moment when transit has been accepted for EU vessels, it will be extremely difficult to say no to transit from other countries with which we have an extensive trade relationship. I think first and foremost of Russia. Acceptance of transit also for Russian vessels will have a major impact on the Norwegian fishing industry, which today receives a quantity of up to 20 pst. of the total quantity landed on Norwegian soil from foreign vessels. So I'd like to think of challenging the Council of States to say a few words about what the Council of State thinks will be the consequences for the fishing industry, if such an outcome would be the result of having now opened up to transit. The transit of fish was one of the major issues in the debate on the EEA Agreement negotiations and in the negotiations on EU membership at the beginning of the 1990s. The fact that we have had to accept the transit of fish is a major step backwards in relation to the trading system that we have had, and the control systems that we have had, by recording everything through the raw fish layer and the sales organisations. It is also, in my view, a real threat in relation to the possibilities of saying no to transit from other countries that have a significant fishing activity in these sea areas that we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e776	I only have five minutes available. I should have had the whole day at my disposal! But this is a typical example: when I look away at the press release, it's empty. We're actually discussing what's most important to District Norway, but no one cares, at least not the press. I'm glad there are so many in the room. I have, as the only one in the hall and at Stortinget, been in the board of directors of a sales team. I've been in the management of the Raw Fish Team. I must say that I fully agree with those who have had the word to talk about transit. I did not believe my own eyes when I saw that the government has accepted the transit of fish that will be landed in Norway – send it out of the country, without it being processed! We don't touch the fish, we just send it out of the country! It's almost incredible that it's going to work! I didn't think my own ears and eyes. In return, we're going to get an increase in the rate of frozen pill shrimp. At least it is not the coastal fishermen in North Norway who fish the shrimp. When we introduced the tariff quotas – we come to a new issue, which I'll talk about a little bit – it was to provide the communities with raw materials. It was for nothing else. It was to get the stockholders in the trawls raw material for processing. It has been the melodies of the coastal fleet, for all those who have supplied fish, that it has been to create work for those who live along the coast. After all, that's all along the coast you're fishing. It wasn't to make the shareholders bigger and more powerful, but it was to create work. And we have indeed done so! When the raw fish layer is blamed for the fact that the fish prices are high in Norway, I must point out to the assembly that it is on the first hand the raw fish law regulates the price, not on the last hand. In the final analysis, it's the free market that determines the price. For example, cod is today paid at 17 kroner per year. kg in the first hand, determined by the type of sale. What you have to pay in Oslo, you know best yourself, but 80 kroner is not rare. It is the free market that has decided that the price should increase from 17 kroner to 80 kroner. It's the free market, it's not the raw fish layer! So those who go around saying that it is the raw fish law and the raw fish layer that have made sure that prices are so high for consumers are wrong. It's the free market that decides that the price should be so high. This applies not least to the fish, but also to the liver, for which you almost get a couple of pounds, and to the fish, for which you only get seven to eight pounds. You even know what you're paying. It's the free market. We know very well, and we know it all since I was a glont kid, that the fish could be picked up by a few units. It's nothing new, it's old. But we've chosen the opposite path. We have chosen to create employment for the people, for those who needed it. But today we experience the opposite. So now it's the shares that are going to rise and become valuable. In the case of illegalities in the industry, this is the only industry I know where to be fined for guessing errors. If you estimate that you have 30 tons on board and go to the buyer and deliver the fish, and it turns out that you deliver 20 tons, you get a fine because you have a 10 tons underreport. If you go to the buyer and you deliver 40 tons, and you've guessed that it's 30 tons, you get a fine. It's the only industry where you get a fine to guess wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e791	I think we have been siding, which is almost like a blind road, when we focus on the concerns of Norwegian sales teams regarding landing, possibly a lack of landing, of EU fish or other fish in Norway. This is a case that has remained unresolved, which was originally part of the EEA Agreement, but which has been unresolved since 1994, and which really does not interest anyone other than Norwegian sales teams, in particular the raw fish layer. In fact, it should be believed that those concerned by this were more interested in improving conditions in order for both Russians and EU countries to be more able to land fish in Norway. This is fully possible, insofar as you are able to pay more for foreign fish in Norway than is the usual when they deliver the fish outside Norwegian ports. I think it should worry more, including Mr. Bastesen, that it is not foreign fish that are mainly transhipped without processing. This applies largely to most Norwegian fish. At least you could have taken some time and asked yourself the question, why has it become like this? It is quite correct that the Raw Fish Act prohibits the production, placing on the market and export of fish without initial authorisation. But it is very little fish from the EU that is landed in Norway. It is clear that as long as there are no Norwegian buyers, why should EU countries bear the additional costs of unloading, control, transport, etc.? We should also look at the problem in the opposite direction and worry that you, for example. in the case of Russian fish, it appears more attractive and profitable to pass outside Norwegian ports, other than Norwegian fillets, except Norwegian factory hands, etc. But those who are concerned about this matter must realize that with our eyes open, we have arranged conditions so that it is more attractive to land this fish beyond the borders of the country. Who is concerned about this matter? At least they are not Norwegian industrial holdings. It is not those who report concerns in this case. They don't see any threat, because there's simply no extent to this relatively constructed problem. We should perhaps be more concerned that Norwegian vessels land fish beyond the borders of the country. 20 pst. by Norwegian shrimps landed on Iceland. We're sending coal and other pelagic fish to Denmark and the United Kingdom. They are not concerned that Norwegian fish are landed there, but in Norway we are creating completely different concerns. I see that there is a great interest in safeguarding the interests of the sales teams, and at least one line in the setting could have worried a little about the business side of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e798	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e801	I have asked for the word, because if Ivar Kristiansen does not understand what has happened, I can refresh Kristiansen' memory. It was Thor Listau as Minister of Fisheries who lifted the freezing concession law. Ivar Kristiansen should know that. That's why the fish get landed and leave the country in frozen form, and there's no job creation. He just concentrated on talking about shrimp and cob, which is a pelagic fish. I have to say again that it is not the coastal fishermen, and not at all those in North Norway, who fish neither collegiate nor shrimp. Yeah, it's worrying. What was the main reason for my post was that we cannot create jobs in the districts and in North Norway, and that the fish are sent out of the country. But would it have been better if the entire EU fleet had led the fish from Norway without creating a single job? Would it have been better then? That's what Ivar Kristiansen says here, "All fish out, nothing in Norway!" That's what's the alternative, not to create a single job. But those who own the boats are getting fatter and fatter and more powerful and their shares are becoming more and more valuable, because they can land fish largely uncontrolled in EU countries. Yeah, I'm defending the sales laws. The sales teams have been created by the small ones in order to safeguard the interests of small ones. There's no problem for the big ones, because they take the fish on board and can do exactly what they want with it. But it is the small ones who cannot take care of the fish that have formed the sales laws. They're the ones who need the sales teams the most. They need a guarantee for the price and for the settlement. So I'm amazed at the articles of Ivar Kristiansen. But when he has kept it, I sincerely hope that the voters understand what the Right really stands for: the fish out of the country, not creating a job!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e812	You probably shouldn't help prolonging the debate. But that was part of what Ivar Kristiansen said, which I simply cannot let stand undisputed. It is in so far as a fair division of labour that Ivar Kristiansen is concerned about shrimps and colmules, and that others are concerned about the rest of the Norwegian fishing industry. It's probably saying a little bit about the dimensions of what you're dealing with. It is not primarily the future of the sales laws that take up the signatures, although the sales laws and the trading system we have in Norway are particularly important to maintain the structure we have in the Norwegian fishing industry. It's not for fun. However, it could be timely to ask the question: when Ivar Kristiansen believes that the EU fleet should not incur costs by following the Norwegian trading system, how will Ivar Kristiansen defend next time that Norwegian fishermen have to deal with the same costs and the same regulations – thus giving the EU fleet a competitive advantage over the Norwegian fleet by exempting them from the schemes that Norwegian fleet and Norwegian fishermen must be subject to? It is primarily about industry, the workplaces and the opportunities for value creation in Norway that occupy me. It is true that a large part of the quantity that the country was going to process goes out again. But I don't think the industry in Norway that buys this fish is doing it for free. In fact, I believe that Norwegian industry and Norwegian fish buyers are making money on the foreign amount they take in, and that it matters to their business. It remains to be seen what will be the consequences, and what will be the Government's position at the moment when Russia knocks on the door and asks for the same access to free transit as EU countries have now received. In this case, it will have far greater consequences for the Nordic industry and for the fishing industry in Northern Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e821	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1873]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e837	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, and the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e848	First, I want to commend the Worker's Party for a Document No. 8-proposal that looked at the finger on some vital questions for Coast Norway. There is a group of committees that go in order for a groceries message to be processed. There is a certain disunity between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party on the one hand and the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party on the other hand when it concerns the scope of such a message. What is important to address is that along the coast of Norway there are large resources of both a renewable nature and a non-renewable nature. I also think it is important that we see the relationship between the various resources and their exploitation, and that we facilitate the future of Coast Norway. What is important, however, is that coastal policy is not just fisheries or shipping, but includes enormous amounts of gas, oil, shipping, tourism, agriculture and transport in the broadest sense. This means that making a big message to cover all of this would be a huge job. Besides, it would actually be a little bit of a double job, because a lot of these areas that I'm talking about are getting their own groceries messages. We have NTP, the transport plan, which deals with everything that's involved in transportation, we have a travel message, a shipping message, that's just around the corner, and we have messages for oil and gas. This means that me and what can be characterized as the multiple in the hall, which is the minority in the committee, will claim that there will be double work when one is going to produce a magnification message for all of these areas for which there are already processed messages. In addition, I would also like to mention that a regional communication is to be drawn up, which is based on regional policy. But it's important that we in Stortinget look at how we can manage to stimulate the areas in Norway where it doesn't work as we like. It's clear that in some coastal areas and in some places it's going to be susar, to use a popular expression, and we may not need to give so much stimulation, while other areas wear and need stimulation. That's why it's important that we look at this. When the minority in the committee will limit a big message to the fisheries and the marine industries, it is, as I said, because we get messages in the other specific areas. But it is clear that when the Council of State and the Ministry are going to prepare this message, they must beg to the other messages and see the soundness of this, so that it will be the best for the coastal communities. I don't think there's any doubt that the whole committee thinks one has to see the health, but in this message it's enough to put the main emphasis on fishing and marine industries, and then seen in conjunction with the other messages coming on the various areas. With these few words, I will only address the minority proposal on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e866	The representative of Lodve Solholm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e869	In Norway, we are so lucky that we have a coast that is abundantly equipped with important natural resources, resources for which there is a great demand, and for which it is well paid. Norway is what you can call a power force in terms of natural resources. We know that many coastal communities have a positive development, but we also know that many coastal communities are characterized by significant stagnation and degradation. It's e.g. a paradox that Finland, which has its richest natural resources, also has its highest unemployment rate. Fish is a very important resource, but we know that the coast is rich in so much else and thus has many other opportunities. Here is an important agriculture, which produces clean food, and which can be developed further, here are great opportunities for industry, here are large oil and gas deposits, here are mines, here are travel life products that can develop far more, and here are important competence companies that can develop further, to mention something. In order to exploit this through active value creation, it is important that the framework conditions are in place and that transport offers are available that are appropriate for employment and housing. For me, it is incredible that we have come into such a situation that coastal communities that are close to such vital resources, and which have such great opportunities, are almost undermining. Why do not areas with so many natural advantages see results in the form of strong enterprises and a solid settlement? What are the lack of framework conditions and the need to reverse these developments? It's just a complete review that can give you the answer. So I'm not with the whole phase, but in the Labour Party, we feel a responsibility to get this on the agenda. I think we all have to realize that the Storting cannot discharge itself of such a responsibility. We all often talk about using the whole country, and there is a broad consensus that the main features of the housing pattern should be maintained. That is why, in my view, there is also a responsibility of the government to address the situation in a more thorough way and to be willing to put in place the means to achieve the objectives and to exploit the values of our resource-rich coastal communities. I am amazed and disappointed that the Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party do not see this serious situation and are willing to initiate a process that can counteract further stagnation in some coastal areas. The Workers' Party proposed the treatment of St.meld. No 20 for 2002-2003 on structural measures in coastal fishing fleets to focus on the societal implications of the decisions taken, but this would not allow the government parties and the Progress Party time to do so. Now we find that the same parties oppose the presentation of a big message on the situation of coastal communities and on the whole of coastal policy. The size of the population deals with a number of individual cases from many departments each year, as the rapporteur pointed out, relating to coastal communities and coastal industries, but the whole is not being sufficiently debated. When we constantly deal with individual matters and make individual decisions, there is a danger that the whole thing will go away, and that one decision will take the other. I believe that the coastal people who live in larger and smaller coastal communities now expect the Storting to start looking at the whole and to put in place the framework conditions needed to exploit the incredible possibilities of national value creation on the coast. It is this Workers' Party that wants to get a big message on a comprehensive coastal policy and on the challenges of coastal communities. After all, this proposal will be voted down by the government parties and the Progress Party today. Instead, we will have a decision asking for a new sector notification, which does not take the whole picture into account. I hear what the rapporteur says today, but this is not related to what he and his party will vote for later today. I had thought that this time we would have the whole map put on the map and get the coastal people really serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e899	I think the case rapporteur has presented the matter in an excellent way, which I feel gets a very positive follow-up. The background is actually a document number. Eight proposals from the Labour Party. I think the party should have made a little effort to give a positive impression that you are happy that this case is getting a much more positive follow-up than that series of other Document No. Eight proposals which are annexed to the Protocol, which are largely of a general nature, or rejected. I believe what the representative Arnesen is now making himself a spokesman for is a pre-judgment of the product that we – fortunately – are going to get, that is, our own big message that will focus on the framework conditions of the fisheries and marine industries, and the development potential of these industries for value creation and settlement along the coast. I think that if we go into the problem of the message that Arnesen presented here, we see that it is the coastal communities that unilaterally base themselves on fisheries that have been the most confused and threatened settlement societies in this country over the past 35 years. There is no shortage of groceries, commissions, etc. They are now becoming increasingly intertwined, taking into account the sector by sector in areas that, of course, the entire Norwegian coast will now be affected and affected. That is why I cannot share the concern that the representative of Arnesen is speaking on behalf of the Workers' Party regarding the document that is now coming. Because I think that, through what is now going to be a majority in this Chamber, we are getting a much greater level of success around what can become the situation of the coastal communities we are all so occupied with, and their fate, as opposed to a document with a breadth that is so large and so low that the Ministry of the Interior is likely to be turned into a product to analyse the societies from Svinesund to Borders-Jakob. I'm afraid that it's going to be a product that doesn't focus enough on or provide a hit security compared to the vulnerable communities that we're all so concerned about. Nor can I have the same negative starting point as the proposers in this case. We are familiar with the distance problems and climatic problems that, in particular, the coastal communities in the northern part of the country have been and are affected by. After all, we've got the basics in place more in the last two to three years, which can have positive consequences. In the Norwegian economy, interest rates, interest rates, payroll calculations have made it natural that part of the coast that is most vulnerable, most export-oriented and most competitive has been through a fall in purchasing power in the markets that supply 95 pst. of its goods and services. We've been given a focus on that situation. The basic conditions have come into place. That is why I believe that we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, from this Chamber, must help to improve export conditions for this industry, which is equipped with the worst export conditions for all industries. If we were to ensure that the hands that should be at work in the vicinity of the resources, which certainly were in the presence of the representative Arnesen, could process the fish and the resources that the marine sector provides, we would give these coastal communities something more to risk with and a better and safer future. I also believe that once we have launched Innovation Norway, the innovation 'kick-off' that was presented the other day, we will be able, in terms of research and development, to focus more on the northern part of the country, on the marine sector and on coastal communities, and thereby to be able to exert increased pressure and to increase efforts in this area. Finally, is all this concern to be delivered on behalf of these communities? I think we're going to stop it, because at least there's no contribution to stopping either the relocation or the closure of jobs. One has to try to encourage optimism, and I think the Ministry of Fisheries will be able to do so through the coming big news.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e914	I think there's going to be a little academic discussion, this about how to present these challenges to the Storting. I think, like speakers before me, that this has been presented enough. It's been written up and down and down and back about this, and how to get it presented is really secondary to me. The question is whether we can tackle the challenges that are real. We know that we're about to get a report from the district commission, which will come back in a big deal. I have nothing against the fact that we get a separate message in relation to this matter, but the messages in themselves are not the interesting thing. What's interesting is if we tackle the big challenges. I would like to point to two of them. Firstly, should coastal communities have their own natural resources? That's really the main question. Today, a number of coastal communities experience that fish resources, which is the basic resource for them, are being disposed of by others, and that fish are not even landed in the fisheries that can receive it for various reasons. There is no longer the right and the ability to exploit the fantastic natural resource located just outside the municipal boundaries. The second thing I want to point out in this connection is the farming industry, which is the new industry. Breeding has in some ways seen as a golden opportunity for a new growth along the coast. My party has been somewhat skeptical to the pace of farming, because it has some environmental consequences, but of course we are positive that you have a limited breeding. But what's going on in the breeding industry? Well, it's that the coastal communities that have invested in this with a lot of planning and spending a lot of money seams, feel that the jobs that were promised and that got started are suddenly gone, because there are also restructurings that make slaughter and further processing go beyond where you are. Let me take an example from my own county, from Leka, which has farming facilities all around the island and great optimism about getting a lot of activity in the small coastal municipality with approx. 700 inhabitants. In a short time, the whole sea has been covered, and almost all jobs have disappeared. So once again, you've lost control of your own natural resource, and that leads to an incredibly big problem. Then you can say that you can put different measures in place, but then there will be quick artificial action and not natural advantage you choose to bet on. I think the big challenge is that we have to give the coastal communities back the natural resources. That's why I think it's going to be wrong that the state, when you're putting out new farming concessions, has to have 5 million. of those who receive the concessions. Of course, it should have gone to the municipalities. Therefore, it is wrong that those who have old concessions do not pay anything to the municipalities when they actually move the jobs from there. It should have been a land tax or concession fee that would have meant that every year a sum had to be paid to these coastal municipalities, so that they could use the money they received to other types of business development to compensate for the loss of these types of jobs. What I'm trying to say is that the most important thing we can do is take some clear action that will give these coastal communities the right to rule back and value their own natural resources. Then I think actually they'll be all right. We have examples of that being done. For example, I want to do this. mention Lovund in Northland. There it has been exploited, and in fact it has succeeded in turning a negative population development into a positive development. And Lovund is as far out in Utkant-Norway as you can get at all – it's almost two hours by boat from Lake Sandness, and far, far into the sea. Then we have another area that I think we need to discuss further, and that is whether we want something with Norwegian district policy and Norwegian instrument use. There I also think the Stortinget has been characterized by a surplus of words and a deficit of action over many years. And that applies not only to this government, but also when the Workers' Party has been sitting at the rudder. I think that when we are going to discuss Norway's new district policy about approx. A year, we have to be a little bit more honest, and we have to be a little bit more direct. We have to stop walking around the cave, and rather go straight to what's going on in order for us to be able to maintain the settlement throughout District Norway, which then also includes Coast Norway. There, I think we've been far too little willing to use instruments that have been monneted. We've kind of spoken in fine words and phrases, but we haven't been willing to take the necessary steps. But we'll get back to that discussion. I look forward to the discussions, debates and votes that come here in the United Kingdom, both in the area of the Regional Commission and the subsequent communications, and also in relation to this specific issue of coastal communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e929	Our coast has assets and resources that represent a significant undissolved potential for value creation in the future. At the same time, we see more coastal communities experiencing a difficult situation, with challenges in terms of jobs, industrial development and housing. When we talk about a comprehensive coastal policy and the challenges of coastal communities, I quickly get associations for Tuesday's inspiring seminar with Innovation Norway. I hope that the optimism that emerged will follow the rapporteurs and all the other participants up along our coast. The challenges facing the coast include, as we have heard earlier today, many policy areas at the same time: fisheries, aquaculture, agriculture, shipping, transport, etc. How are we going to get increased value creation out of this? The values and resources are there, but how are we going to be good at what we have tradition of along our coasts, and how are we going to think new and develop new products and services in a market that is so global? How are we going to create the values we need to distribute? There are many questions, and the message to be provided, I think will give us many important answers. The challenges today, and not least in the future, are high in relation to the coming wave of old age, increasing globalised competition, technological development and regional development. Interplaying across and between actors is invaluable in increasing value creation. At the same time, we see that we need to take a closer look at how we deal with the market and competition. We must dare to think more and more both in terms of challenges and opportunities. We have to learn to see new opportunities and dare to put less emphasis on traditional thinking. The District Commission will have a comprehensive review of the problems of districts and current bets. We also look forward to what comes out there. At the same time, I am concerned that we need to adapt to a reality of globalisation, see the importance it has for us, and see how in this new situation we can contribute to housing and jobs in the districts. We are concerned that there should be equivalent opportunities for those living in the districts. It is then dependent on the authorities to provide profitable and safe jobs. If we don't have it as a starting point, there will be no basis for living along our coast. Who, then, will be able to trigger the potential for value creation in future generations? Authorities need to focus on the framework conditions for business, while at the same time facilitating people with skills and education to live in this country who want to live along our coast. As far as research, development and commercialisation of products are concerned, I fully agree with what Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen claims that we need to increase the commercialisation of our research. This is not least the industries that we're concerned with here. In addition to all the exciting and interesting things that are happening in relation to Innovation Norway, I believe that the challenges our long-range coast can face are both fair and reasonable to specify and make visible not only the framework conditions for fisheries, but also the importance and development potential of marine industries. I look forward to an interesting and important big message and the debate we have in connection with it. A clear communication on key rural policy areas and the challenges to our coastal communities is important. I look forward to that message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e948	It is positive that we get a big message about the situation on the coast, and it is very positive that the Workers' Party has taken the initiative in this regard. But I have to say there's reason to be surprised that, among other things. The representative Arnesen is amazed at the developments seen along the coast over the last ten years. This is a result of economic driving forces along with a policy that has been pursued in this house, and the Workers' Party has been a driving force in relation to the centralisation policy that has been pursued. In fact, the Labour Party has, on a case-by-case basis throughout the 1990s, joined forces with the right-hand side in the conversion of Norwegian policies in important areas, whether we are talking about health policy, telecommunications policy, or about petroleum policy. There has been a change in agricultural policy, and important changes have taken place in the local economy. Regional policy instruments have been reduced, while an increasing share of the country’s funds has been used in the Oslo area, not least in transport, which has contributed strongly to centralisation and a deterioration in economic development and housing in District Norway. The Labour Party has thus been a leading party for both the 1980s and 1990s, through changing governments and changing political majority. So there's actually more reason to take self-criticism than to be amazed at evolution. But in what has been presented on the part of the Workers' Party, there is a bit of self-criticism. In any case, it is positive that this initiative has been taken and that we are now receiving such a notification, which must necessarily include very many elements, not just the conditions of the fishing industry. However, when, unlike the majority of committees, the majority of the population now wants to limit this industry especially to the marine sector and to the fishing industry, it requires an even greater focus on the challenges facing that industry. I would like to ask in particular that the particular issues raised by Inge Ryan in his post be taken into account. The owner configurations and the owner concentration we have seen in the breeding industry are, in my opinion, an important reason why we have had a situation where this resource base disappears from the countryside. We know from experience and from the figures presented, that the economic results are far better in the small and medium-sized farms in the farming industry than they are in the large ones, not only because they have as much debt as the large companies have, but also because they focus more on business than they are able to in the large companies with a passive ownership. These are elements on which such a notification should focus to the greatest extent. One must seriously consider how to organise ownership, and how to take back the local ownership of the breeding industry, in order to ensure value creation with a local anchoring and not least a healthy business-economic development within this industry where one does not believe that in the future one can grow greatly through borrowed foreign capital and where one puts oneself in the situation in which we see several of the large breeding companies now come into being.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e961	We are discussing today a communication to be submitted by the Government on the importance of fisheries and marine industries. If we hadn't had the fisheries, which I had in mind in my article on the previous case, we wouldn't have had people in the districts, and especially not in the coastal areas of North Norway. I am a little surprised that the sitting government has not understood that. I hope the message that is being put on the table will contain a little about it. But I agree with Bendiks H. Arnesen, who said that the message should be considerably wider than what we have on the table today. If we hadn't had the fishing industry, we wouldn't have had any employment either. But the question is, who should own the natural resources? The grandma has said that they should be for the good of the people. But the government hasn't added up to that. It's a privatisation going on. It is the privatisation of fish resources. It's the privatisation of the coast. It's the privatization of the sea. It's a privatisation of the minerals. Is that really what we want? But it's the voters who decide. Every four years they decide whether to privatise it or whether to own the natural resources. If we had not had the fishing industry, we would never have had any employment in District Norway: we had no schools, we had no teachers, we had no municipalities, we had no hairdressers, we had no transportation, we had no transport, we had no communication, we had no rescue service, we had no security guard or defense, we had no pollution preparedness, and we had not had the police to look after our livestock. That's the whole system it's all about. I think it is well done that a message should not cover all of this, because it is of importance for employment and for the whole of District Norway. Without good territory, we don't get well-functioning cities. The cities have become for people to need a place to trade, to exchange their goods. That's why the cities came. Without the fact that we have districts that produce raw materials, cities have no production to do with either. We need both. We need both the districts and the cities. Without districts, we don't get cities either! If we – unfortunately, I have to draw the EU debate a little into the picture – become a fringe of Europe, it is only a matter of time before Norway is closed down. But the shareholders that can reap from the natural resources, they won't be small. There will be a few boats, and they can take up the entire fishing quota. Is that what we want, as we now depopulate the coast and depopulate the districts? Is that really what we want? We're big-time representatives who usually decide this right here in this room. But at the end, the voters decide, every four years. But we can give some signals to our voters, and we will do that when dealing with that big message. Eventually we come to the processing of a maritime message, but I have to anticipate the event a little bit. Without a crew, we don't get an officer. At all times it has been that to get officers on merchant vessels and fishing boats we must have crew. We need youth, or we don't get officers. Do we really want foreigners to complain about those positions? There are, for the most part, foreigners who are the crew of our boats on international voyages. In a few years, there may be foreigners who are crews on the fishing boats as well. Can the representatives see this separately?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e982	We are in a rather paradoxical situation: many coastal communities wear out heavily because there is a shortage of labour and capital. At the same time, coastal communities have a great potential. It's actually along our coast we find our most powerful business environment. It is against this paradox that the Labour Party believes that a holistic coastal policy must be developed immediately, carefully analysing the challenges facing coastal communities and proposing measures that can lead to positive changes. In this way, we can provide the basis for the coast to be the driving force in national value creation. There's a chance we definitely don't have to play from us. Many coastal communities wear out heavily over time. The decline in the population has affected many municipalities and communities. Most importantly, we see this in coastal communities in Finnmark, where eight of the municipalities have a decline in the population of 25 pst. or more in the last 20 years. It's a dramatic development. But we see similar challenges in coastal communities also in the West. In the dynamic fishing municipality of Vågsøy, there has also been a decline in the population over the last 20 years. New technology gives rise to new conditions of production. The need for competence increases, and distances play a smaller role than before. What used to be natural district location models is no longer. Higher levels of education and changes in the family pattern also make new demands on each worker and cage. Districts must be able to offer interesting jobs where both women and men are provided with knowledge and creativity. These facts are very challenging for many coastal communities. If the degradation is not to be taken over, the areas along our toughest coast must be encouraged to exploit the potential that exists. In many communities, fishing and the fishing industry are seriously failing. There may be a periodic lack of resources, a lack of ability to further process the products or a lack of access to capital for fleets and fish processing plants. Private capital escapes from many communities. These are examples that we'll find in many places, especially in North Norway. In other places, the engineering and supply industries are faltering. The demand for e.g. specialized ships are currently very low. In particular, coastal municipalities are affected in the West. In Flora, for example, more and more workers are thrown into passivity. The aim of the Labour Party is to maintain the main features of the busses pattern and to create equivalent living conditions in all parts of our country. The biggest challenge in relation to this objective is now to be found along the coast. The basis for developments in coastal communities must be strengthened. This must be done primarily through the sustainable use of natural resources, by strengthening skills and by inspiring innovation and economic development. This must be a major strategy. The second central approach will be to develop business where we have special competence or advantage. Therefore, along the coast, we must invest heavily in the marine sector, the maritime sector, the petroleum sector and the tourism sector. Of course, other areas of activity may also play a role in some districts, but searchlights must be directed to areas where one has a distinct advantage. The Labour Party must, however, focus strongly on those areas that have particular difficulties with employment, and where there is a strong decline in the population. So for the Workers' Party, it's up to us to use the coast to create new activity and optimism, and to counteract the negative trends. It is on this basis that we are committed to a holistic coastal policy. It is striking that the Government Party and the Advance Party reject this approach. Actually, it's sensational. When many coastal communities struggle with deportation, lack of work and lack of capital, the government must use all the tools that exist to help them out of the miscarriage. It is then not satisfactory to limit work to assess the framework conditions for fisheries and the maritime industries, as proposed by the Government Party and the Advance Party. It's a negative signal to the many employees and business leaders along our coast looking for new opportunities. It is too passive an industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1010	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1013	The rapporteur was very concerned in his speech with holistic thinking on the challenges facing coastal communities. The problem is that he lands on supporting a proposal that will have a majority in the Chamber today, because in a way it only takes fish. Odd Roger Enoksen also says that the current government is not doing its job, and he asks a little question about whether we in the Workers' Party did the job when we were in government. What I think we're going to ask ourselves is, have we built up the departmental structure so that we're not able to see the whole? Should we somehow recognise that it is a problem that we only see sector by sector? This could have been expressed in a communication, because once we deal with fish, through the municipal committee we deal with district notifications, and we deal with agriculture, but we don't look at the whole. That's what's not good for us. Take, for example: agriculture. It was claimed at an agricultural conference in Bodø last week that there is 179 dairy farms left in Finland. It is clear that it is dramatic, dramatic because we thought we had a channelling policy that said that the most intensive and labourless agriculture was to be in the districts, and then grain, etc. produced in the south. We have to see the whole of what we're doing. That's where I think we're doing a bad deal with what the majority is doing in the hall today. As representatives Sandal and Arnesen were both involved, it is important to look at the tourist industry. I think maritime tourism – we can call it that – is important. It's becoming more and more important. But it's not important just to see dead settlements and dead coastal communities along the coast of Norway. It is important to see this as a great industry in the future. We do not get that with the proposal that exists by looking at fish. We have raw materials. How we deliver raw materials is worrying. We're raw materials suppliers. We have to take a different grip and say, "Should we talk about the raw materials?" How are we going to be able to process them ourselves, so that we can't send them out of the country? It could have been part of a holistic thinking, whether agriculture, fish, oil or gas, etc. Therefore, I regret that we have come into a situation where no one will see the whole and no one will say how difficult it is to see the whole – because that is it. We also have to admit that in the Workers' Party it is. But at least we could have taken the time to try.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1026	The reason why I asked for an additional post of 3 minutes is the partly unfair and exaggerated attacks that are being made by the Workers' Party in the discussion here today. An impression is that the government party in the Progress Party teams will not take a holistic approach to the situation in which the coastal communities are. I think that's a distortion of reality. What is happening today is that we have a district commission working to see and analyse the health situation in the district communities, so that the state can provide some systematic measures. This long-term part gets us to respect. This has been agreed upon in the Storting, and we shall do so. Then suddenly a district commission will take this out and create a new big message, while we have a commission working on these questions. In my opinion, there is no need to talk about a sensation and to regret that a person now wants to take a deep dive before fishing and marine industries and see what they can do especially now in this situation in order to raise coastal communities. I feel it's completely natural, what's happening today, and I also want to point out the action that is making innovation in 2010, which is being launched by nine state councils. So one aim, through a dedicated working group, is to launch immediate action to promote industrial development in coastal communities and marine areas. That's the answer to what they're asking from the Labour Party today. And there's no need to talk about sensation, indulgence and passivity. It's just empty rhetoric. I am pleased with the decision that will be taken here today, that a request for a proper professional hearing on what fisheries and marine industries can contribute to raising these important coastal communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1033	I may not want to prolong the debate, but I feel that it's a little upbuilt when one hears, especially from the Labour Party's side, that the rest of us are not willing to look at the health of coastal development. I tried to find out in my main post that a lot of messages are being processed in the vast majority of sectors. I also said in my post that when the Council of State is going to prepare this message, we would ask him to look a little bit at the other messages to pull up a cure. What we need to be aware of is that fishing and the marine industries are the starting point for coastal Norway to exist and continue in good development. If we don't look at it specifically, it doesn't help either. If these industries do not have a framework that makes them viable and that we can house resource-efficient, agriculture, service industries, tourism and so on will be of little help. It's important to see. Therefore, I believe it is important to have the confidence of the Government and the Ministry that when they make this big message, they will be mindful of what the other messages have to do about how to further develop Coast Norway and the coastal communities, and then address those communities that may have the most problems now. But – as I also said in my contribution – we should be aware that there are some coastal communities that are suspenses of the garden, where there is no need for us politicians to interfere, because they manage themselves. The industries are doing their own thing, and the politicians in the community are doing it very well, without one we're getting involved in it. We have to help where it's going to go a little bit, but the main pillar to get this done is fishing and the marine industries. Going deep into them, looking a little from the outside and taking the other industries into this image, we will be able to get a good big message, and we will be able to get a good setting from Stortinget when we're going to process it if not for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1044	Just let me point out in general that for coastal industries, too, the general framework conditions are crucial. Many of our best export industries, which live along the coast, are now seeing a number of brighter signs of the situation, both in terms of earnings and provision — a degree of interdependence — than they did a year ago. Let me also point out, as it says in the position, that coastal policy obviously involves much more than fisheries policy. However, we do not see it as appropriate on the part of the Government to present a comprehensive communication on coastal policy and the challenges of coastal communities, when such broad discussion is covered by the statements made in the past in the area of regional and regional policy, and the Commission now working on the same theme will lead to a later issue for the Stortinget. In addition, the Government has notified the Stortinget – in part, there are also requirements for Stortinget – messages in wide sectors such as shipping, oil and gas and transport. National transport plan is not a sectoral plan. After the discussion of the Storting, the national transport plan will now cover all parts of the transport industries and will see them in context. There are, of course, areas that are also important for the nutritional basis of coastal communities. Therefore, we consider it most appropriate to focus a new notification on the framework conditions for fisheries and other marine industries, focusing on their potential for development as a basis for value creation and economic activity. At the time of this announcement to the Stortinget, the Stortinget will also have discussed, among other things. maritime policy, and – as was said by a previous speaker – it would be natural to draw attention to that position and to make a significant emphasis on what has been said, as a basis for the communication to cover the framework conditions for fisheries and other marine industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1053	I realize that you don't get what you want with this proposal. Now we have many important industries on the coast that should be future industries. Nor does anyone agree that these industries and businesses should be profitable. However, there may be reason to ask, especially when the Minister of Finance acts as Minister of Fisheries, if for example: Is the fisheries policy to be based only on business-economy conditions without taking into account the socio-economic and socio-economic impacts? What does it mean that we in the fisheries must have more shop and less policy, as the Minister for Fisheries has said? Does the Council of State think that a fisheries policy that focuses only on a business economy is the best for our coastal communities? This is a core core of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1060	This will be ample opportunity to discuss in the context of the communication that will now focus on the fishing industry. In general, I would say that the fishing industry has been through a positive development, from a support industry to an industry that stands on its own feet and is one of our most important export industries. It is true that the industries that are economically profitable also make the best contribution to socio-economic profitability. But, as I said, this will be a better opportunity to discuss in connection with a big message that concentrates on this, and not at the same time includes, among other things. agriculture, shipping, transport, oil, gas, tourism, mineral extraction, public services, government and structure, landscape protection and industry — as noted in the remarks in the vote. Such an all-encompassing message, I think, would get the focus away from the problem that the representative Arnesen was now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1067	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1873]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1082	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1873]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1098	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1111	Then we are ready to vote on the issues on today's map. In Case No. Case No. 1 and Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1120	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government requests the Government to propose the introduction of a temporary derogation in the public procurement legislation, enabling contracting authorities to conclude agreements with NPISHs without initiating a traditional tendering procedure. The scheme shall be applied as a two-year testing scheme, which shall then be evaluated.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1159	During the debate, Mr Solholm put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a comprehensive communication on the framework conditions for fisheries and the importance and development potential of the marine industries in terms of increased value creation and coastal bushing.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-12.ana.ud769e1216	There is no record. So today's map is finished, even though the president would have thought it would take longer. We thank the nutrition committee for that – it can be a good thing to thank them for once!
