ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e57	Three permit applications are available: from the representatives Morten Højlund and Bjørn Jacobsen on leave from 14 June to 18 June, both to take part in the 11th session of UNCTAD in São Paulo, Brazil. from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on Permits for the Representatives of Thore A. Nistad from 14 June to 18 June to take part in the Economic Forum of St. Petersburg. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. - It is deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the More and Romesdal counties, Ingrid I. Opedal is requested to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Bjørn Jacobsen, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Moor and Romsdal County: John Knudseth For Uppland County: Morten Ørsal Johansen3. John Knudseth and Morten Ørsal Johansen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Bjørn Jacobsen and Tore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e110	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be a change of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e121	I would like to start by thanking the representatives of the government parties for constructive cooperation with the intention of reaching goals. Thanks also to the other parties for boundless patience, but also cooperation in areas where there is a broad consensus on both structures, principles or location. Then I'd like to add that I'm very proud - once again - to be able to present to the Stortinget a long-term defence plan with a broad and solid majority behind the further modernisation. It ensures stability and the necessary parliamentary basis for the structural changes that are a prerequisite for a timely defence - a defence that can ensure the security of Norwegian citizens, Norwegian territory and Norwegian interests at a time when the threat picture is diffuse and unpredictable, where the defence in cooperation with civil protection and our allies must be prepared for the unknown, where our forces must be mobile and mobile, where we must now put quality ahead of quantity. May 1st this year marked the definitive end of the Cold War. Europe was reassembled to one continent when the EU was enlarged by ten new Member States. One month earlier, NATO got seven new countries into the alliance. Several of the countries we're talking about were not even independent countries 15 years ago, and this is actually not that long ago. We kept talking about the Iron Curtain, and we had cold war and terror balance. We had a divided Germany -- is there anyone who remembers it? And we had the Warsaw Pact. Whatever the individual may feel about the EU or Norway's relationship with the EU, the EU enlargement to the east represents the greatest solidarity promise since the Marshall Plan and is an important contribution to a more peaceful and stable Europe. Together with NATO enlargement, the EU is now the guarantor of continued democratisation in former Eastern Europe, including well-being, human rights and democracy - a prerequisite for peace and stability on our continent. NATO's contribution as a stabilisation factor in Europe cannot be underestimated either. The Eastern European countries that have been involved in membership have not only done so to participate in a defence policy community but to ensure that they are part of the democratic world. Nevertheless, the future-optimism that marked years after 1989 is weakened. Wars and ethnic cleansing in the Balkans, extreme poverty in post-Soviet areas, nuclear materials on the way, nuclear waste in the Kola Peninsula, the situation in the Middle East and the emergence of terrorism create uncertainty and uncertainty about the future. So we're in a transformation of the Defense to just create security and have a preparedness for the unknown. When we spend almost 30 billion dollars a year on Defense, the common man and woman must be sure that those funds are relevant to their security in everyday life. It is the further reorganisation of the defence. That means that we must have the most operational capacity out of the defence budget. It means new forms of cooperation between civil and military preparedness and increased emphasis on intelligence as an important part of the fight against terrorism. It means military transformation to lie ahead of evolution and not staggering in established thought patterns. That means international cooperation, both civil and military. In fact, civil cooperation between peoples and countries is an important part of Norwegian security and foreign policy. In addition, the Committee attaches particular importance to the development of the northern regions. The Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea are among the world's most productive sea areas. Climate conditions make the areas particularly vulnerable, and transport of oil and spent nuclear fuel must meet with offensive measures. Keywords here are cooperation between the Defence and the Coast Guard Agency, the Maritime Defence vessel, the North Territories and continued concentration of defence facilities in the North. That's why Troms is probably now number one in defense, among other things. additional concentration of the forces in Brigade North. The south journey is maintained. Coast Guard helicopters, or svadron 337, shall be on Bardufoss, even after the phase-in of the new NH-90 helicopters, when they are not on board a coastguard vessel or for repair by the manufacturer. The Northern Nordic Region and the Southern Troms region is a strategic area that the Committee majority has not wanted to weaken. The coasters remain in Harstad, and we have marine hunters in Ramsund and coastguard base in Blackland. In addition, we are adding the new HV district for North Nordland and Troms to Bjerkvik, and are asking the Ministry to help secure the workshop there in an interaction with Natech in Narvik. Finnmark continues to have strength concentration in South Varanger, and we maintain two HV districts there. Let me express the concern of the Lakselv community, and I ask the Council of State to look at a possible strengthening both of the garrison in Porsanger and of Banak Airport as we move forward. The maritime defence comes naturally well out of the reform. The first frigate is now finished, and we have started the production of missile torpedo boats. Since the dry dock on Haakonsvern is too small for the new frigates, there is now a Roman decision in today's setting to build a new dock. I now assume that the progress that was adopted two years ago in this big business is being followed as foreseen. Although we are a small country, Norway has a significant defence industry. It's actually an important part of our preparedness. The defence industry is forward-looking innovation that benefits both civil and military. Norwegian research and development opportunities are essential. Similarly, repurchasing agreements and other industrial return are crucial in the case of major purchases or development agreements. The Norwegian authorities, in my opinion, have been too bad about it, compared to having an facilitating role for the defence industry. We need to get to a forum consisting of, among other things, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Industry, Prime Minister's Office, representatives of industry and trade union movement. Such a forum must include, inter alia: look at the technological needs of defence and where Norwegian industry has competence. In my opinion, what was previously SND, now Innovation Norway, must also be used to secure research and development agreements, both for its own technological development and where Norway has a repurchase agreement in an international project. Although Norway is not going to decide for many years on new fighter aircraft - it would be thought that when you read the newspapers - this is about a possible purchase of such a magnitude that the struggle between manufacturers is in full swing, accompanied by various media. May I stress that it is not even certain that we will buy new fighter aircraft, whether we will buy them in cooperation with e.g. Denmark and the Netherlands, or if we get into expanded Nordic cooperation. There are at least three alternatives: Eurofighter, Joint Strike Fighter and Jas Gripen. It's even French planes. One option is also to buy new F-16 aircraft. We're not going to hit the hand of any of these fighter flight options. So maybe we're going to do something like this. in six years, choose the Swedish option. We don't know this today. But this has costs that are of such magnitude that the political climate will be absolutely crucial to how this case develops, and I also believe the economic situation. We are in an industrial cooperation agreement with Eurofighter and a development agreement with Joint Striker. The prerequisites when we signed the agreement with the Americans two years ago were that Norwegian industry should be withdrawn. It's only in the last few weeks that it seems that Lockheed Martin has understood this. They were here last week, and we give them the chance to put into practice the offers they had. We have a new possible crossroads at the autumn budgetary procedure. The agreement has been provisionally paid for out of the year. An important part of the restructuring of a timely defence with anti-terrorism preparedness is the quality reform of Heimevernet. This is to the extent an order shop from Stortinget. Two years ago, we asked for an investigation into the future of HV, based on, among other things, differentiation, more special forces and fewer HV districts. Higher quality, more training, better equipment is the key to an anti-terrorist HV that can interact with civil protection. Another important part of the modernisation of defence is an assessment of several resources for operational activities and less for support structures. We still have a support structure that is adapted to a large invasion defence. Of course, it must be built down. We have dealt with this mainly in December. That doesn't mean the same thing as privatization. That is why, in our demands for government parties, we have been concerned with the majority of comments that can provide guidelines for the exclusion of tasks. A majority believe that the prerequisites for the purchase and outsourcing of support functions are the need to demonstrate that they provide more cost-effective and better quality services. It is necessary to place a critical focus on preparedness and security of supply, and socio-economic considerations must also be taken into account in such assessments. This note must lead to all issues where there is a discussion of exclusion from work or privatisation. I would ask the Council of State to be extremely restrictive with regard to exclusion. She does not have the support of the Workers' Party for extensive privatisation. Finally, the position we are discussing today well clarifies the principles of participation in international operations. A broad majority believe that such participation must be based on both legitimacy and legality and be clearly enshrined in international law. The UN gives the mandate and chooses to whom the mission is to be given. We have seen this on many occasions, and it has been largely indicative of the international operations in which we have participated. That also applies to the forces we have out today. Within the capacity limits we have, however, we believe that our participation in UN operations should increase. The same majority also believe that Norway should refrain from participating in so-called preventative warfare and pre-purchase or assault wars. Personally, I am very pleased that it is so clear in this setting, and that this will be the basis for evaluating new international operations. At the moment, there aren't so many forces we have abroad. This is also a capacity limitation, of course, but in any case we have got clear guidelines. Ultimately, the most important security policy work we do through international cooperation, and through international driving rules, is to create societies based on democratic states where all people have social security and the right to work, and where human rights and fair distribution are put into focus. Because that is how we prevent the breeding ground for terrorism. Other representatives of the Workers' Party would say a little more about the Workers' Party's position. Even I want to come back to a few 3 minutes post and talk more about the FLO and about staff policy, which will also be discussed later in a public meeting. With this, I recommend the position of the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e184	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e187	In the context of the new long-term proposition, the government has given a decisive emphasis to the balance between defence tasks, structure and resource availability. We have mainly joined this in the setting. So the preconditions for resource access are not just what we grant in the annual budgetary negotiations. It is also the rationalisation to take place through all stages of the Defence Organisation and the liquidation of a very large building stock, camps and other facilities owned by the Defence. I would also like to ask the chairman of the committee to confirm from the Chair of the Storting that the Workers' Party stands firm in that, when the Defense withdraws its assets, according to the guidelines given by the Storting, it is to be made at the market price, and that the precondition for financing the Defence is that it happens without the Storting entering and imposing restrictions on the charge imposed by the Storting itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e196	I think I have to start by answering the representative herenæs in the same way as I have the black media, and as my colleague Sylvia Brustad has also said, when selling the properties of the defence -- and there are a lot of them -- it is actually with respect to notifying the difference between the Eujemo and a coastal pearl that should be open to the public. In the setting that we have just given up, and which we are dealing with today, there is a comment under Defence Building, where we strongly stress that in the event of the disposal of defence properties, attention should be paid to both leisure and all-person rights. We also have a note in this setting where we once again point to the management of our defence works, museums and fortifications, which we have been waiting for quite a while. It was in 2001 that Stortinget asked the government to come back to how we would manage the attachments that the defense is now leaving. But with these constraints that we now believe lie there, it is clear that we believe that the market price should be taken into account in the disposal of so-called common defence facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e205	In the opinion of the Progress Party, today we have a defence with a very good command training with a natural progression in the system, first command school, then practice, then war school, then practice, and then staff school for those who aim higher. Does the Workers' Party believe that the new command system that the Government is now proposing, where, among other things: Requesting people with a completely different reference background than is currently provided for in career development in Defence may attract elements that the Defence would not regard as a resource? So a little question in the end: I think, it's possible it's my fault, it's a little unclear what the Workers' Party means about the location of the 337 Quadron. Do they want it to be placed on Bardufoss?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e214	If I get 10 minutes, I can answer those questions. To the last question: Yes, when the helicopters are not on a ship or for maintenance by the supplier. As far as the education system is concerned, I think the most important thing about what's happening with the war school is synchronizing and harmonising the education system in Defence with the degrees and structures that are now new at universities and colleges. The universities went away from a four-year cand.mag.-grad and to a three-year Bachelor degree. I'm going to believe that young people want to have the same race in Defense. In the case of command training, I have to say that I wonder a little about what the Progress Party mentions. The Progress Party enters into this setting in order to recruit contract orders for one year, two years at a time and three years at a time, limited up to 15 years, without any rights. We have entered into an arrangement where it is erased is not such that you have the recruitment that the representative mentions. We are relatively satisfied with the arrangements we have received for the order, which include: must be able to take a bachelor degree while being a departmental commander. Then it will go back to the Survey for Evaluation in close cooperation with the employees' organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e230	There is considerable opposition to the obligation to order international operations among officers in Norway, not least from a number of professional organisations, which consider that there are no major problems in obtaining volunteers for such operations today. Now, the Workers' Party, together with the Government, is in favour of the obligation to order. It must mean that the Workers' Party assumes that more would be reserved to participate in future international operations than at present, or that the Workers' Party believes that participation in international operations should increase and that, for this reason, it would be more difficult to obtain volunteers. Does the Labour Party believe that Norway should participate in international operations to a greater extent in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e239	To the last question, my answer will be no. I think we're going to participate in fewer international operations in the future. It has a little bit to do with the arrangement of our defense, with small, qualitatively good strengths, and that we should be very, very careful with the starting point for participation in international operations. International law must be founded. We are not going to engage in preventative war or pre-emptive war, and it must be clear that the United Nations has asked for us to do so, and that this may also be NATO missions. With regard to the obligation to submit a complaint, it is true that anyone employed after 1999 has an obligation to submit a complaint. We have put in some limitations or some reasons for what we have written about the obligation to order. I think you get a fairer distribution of those sent out, when you get an order for everyone. So I think it'll be more family friendly, because it's not the same that has to take the load every time. I also think that the selection or quality of our forces is getting better.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e255	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e260	Essentially, I agree with the statement made by the committee director and the case rapporteur. I am also very pleased that we can once again continue a broad settlement. This is important, not only for the Defense as such, but also, and not least, for the Defence crews at the different levels, who know that they can trust what is adopted in the Defence. In other words, it is very gratifying that the further modernisation of defence is ensured. It is ensured because there is agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party on the need to continue the important change that has begun, so as to adapt defence to relevant security policy scenarios. Today, this is mainly related to international terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, as well as to the challenges of traditional peacekeeping and nation-building with extensive civil-military cooperation. The majority will adapt Defence to future security challenges. New safety challenges have resulted in quality becoming more critical than defence capability. The ability of the defence to perform all its tasks shall be strengthened, inter alia: by transferring resources from logistics and support activities to operational activities. The extension of the defence agreement for the current period to the future period also leads to stability and predictability of the most extensive reorganisation of the public sector in modern times. So there is agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party on the whole structure for the next four years. With the grip of the bulk of population now doing, we are putting the one-sided emphasis on invasion defence behind us and putting in place a flexible response defense, a defense that can be used both nationally and internationally. In the view of the Right, there is no contradiction between national and international missions. Participation in international operations strengthens the defence's ability to maintain security at home. The government has had an impact on all the main points of the proposal for a new long-term plan. It's not bad of a minority government. It includes the financial framework, the personnel reforms and the modernisation of the Home Office. Thus, the adaptation of defence to the current strategic framework and a change in risk profile continue. Let me start by saying something about the long-needed quality reform of the Heimevernet, which the Government has now put in place. I would quote from a letter I received from someone who has been rolling in the Home Office for over ten years and belonged to different HV areas. In connection with major winter exercises in North Norway, he has served as a lead commander in the framework group of the Hunter Regiment in the 6th Division, where he has also become acquainted with HV departments from other parts of the country, and has thus gained a broad knowledge of the situation with the Home Office. He says the following: "The protection of the world as I know it has major problems with the lack of modern equipment and lack of money for training. Home security has been organized and dimensioned for the threat image of the Cold War throughout the period I have been associated with HV, that is, after the end of the Cold War!" Unfortunately, this picture of reality is striking as to how the Homeland Protection system has been put in place in recent years. And so there's this home security minority in this room that wants to keep. The realization of the intentions of the new long-term defence plan will lead our Homeland Protection into a new era. Home protection has already been given a very central role in the defence of Norway. The problems are many and varied. As the Army's activities have been brought together in Inner Troms and around Østerdalen garrison, the Heimeverten has taken over the responsibility for the regional and local sovereignty. In addition, the assistance of Home Security to civil authorities in crisis management and general social security has become more relevant. For the first time, the strengthening of the Home Security shall be through the use of more money for training and new equipment than today. Secondly, the reform involves differentiation and quality-enhancing in terms of training, equipment and response capabilities. The establishment of the response forces will significantly strengthen our defence capabilities in relation to today's situation. These forces, which will consist of volunteers on contract, shall be reviewed from 6 to 20 days of training per year and equipped with the most modern equipment. These shall be of high quality and preparedness. In the event of terrorist attacks or other precarious threats and crises, these could be deployed quickly and effectively. The more traditional HV tasks can be carried out by reinforcement forces and follow-up forces. I would also like to say a few words about the important personnel reforms. First, to the introduction of the Title Command. This is a system that will provide the soldiers with better education by providing continuity at the departments and even greater skills building at the command. The alternative to the introduction of a departmental order is to continue the current system of extensive use of short-term contracts, which means considerable uncertainty for the staff as well as for the employer. The introduction of the Title Command will increase predictability, both for the individual soldier and for the Defence. In addition, the new scheme grants the rights to the establishment and training bonus, rights to which the current contractual order does not have. The defence is, as we know, a security policy tool that the authorities have at their disposal. The right starting point for a debate on referral to international operations is strikingly clear: it is essential that we have mechanisms and provisions that enable the defence to carry out the tasks assigned to it by the Stortinget and the Government. The obligation to challenge is a necessary mechanism. By imposing an obligation to submit a complaint, the defence as an employer will be able to allocate the burden of international missions to more people, while at the same time providing much greater flexibility in terms of job solutions. The committee leader and the case rapporteur were involved in future fighter aircraft. As she quite rightly pointed out, it is a decision to be taken by a future magnification. It is not certain that we will all be in that decision in 2009! But there are several considerations to deal with this. The most important thing is operational considerations. But of course, industrial opportunities must also be taken into account. The choice of fighter aircraft shall not be made until 2008 at the earliest. The discussion is now going on about and in which development program we're going to participate in. We are currently participating, as we know, in both the Eurofighter and the JSF programmes, the F-35 programme. Participation in the evolution of JSF - or F-35 - gives defence important knowledge. It allows large contracts to Norwegian industry, and it gives us advantages if JSF were to become Stortinget's choice of new fighter aircraft. In the meantime - regardless of that - it gives us great opportunities for technological and research development. Ending our participation in the unfolding of the JSF today, as proposed by the Progress Party, is a very poor solution. It would effectively put an end to Norwegian industry’s opportunities for participation in the subsequent production of JSF. That the Progress Party is proposing to end our participation in the project is not so surprising, as they are already in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 55 for 2001-2002, cf. Inner. S. No 232 for 2001-2002, it was considered unfortunate to commit to the JSF project. The right-hand side is per. At the same time, we see that the main contractor, Lockheed Martin, and the subcontractors have recently contacted the Norwegian industry to secure more contracts. In this context, I do not think we should underestimate the very clear messages given from all the political levels in Norway in relation to Lockheed Martin. It started with the Secretary of State, it continued with the Minister of Defence. There have also been high-ranking representatives from other departments in Washington, and that was, as we know, exceptionally clear speech from the Defence Committee during our visit to Washington a few weeks ago. It is my very definite impression that this agreement by the Norwegian side has given the necessary understanding not only at the political level in Washington, but above all at Lockheed Martin, that this is a prerequisite for us to be able to move forward in the longer term. However, I would like to stress that there is a considerable responsibility here also on industry itself. It is primarily an agreement between Lockheed Martin and the relevant Norwegian industrial companies that can get these things in place. We cannot and should not, on the part of Storting, regulate in detail the contracts to be concluded by the industry. But based on the benefits of our participation, the defence and the opportunities for the industry in the participation, as well as on the initiatives taken by Lockheed Martin in recent times, as I just mentioned, is the only right thing today after the majority's view that we are continuing our participation in the development of the JSF.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e319	It's going to be a string shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e322	The representative Hernæs touched on many important issues that I agree with, but he did not affect the sale of military properties. There's been a lot of talk about Bolärna, and in the South there's been a lot of talk about Marvika. The fatherland friend of 4 June reads: "I don't understand what's so wrong with selling to private people.Who owns the area is not material," says Hernæs." When I read it, I came to think of Oscar Wilde, who said, "A cynic is one who knows the price of everything, but not the value of anything." Is it just money that matters to the Right in the sale of properties? Don't social interests, like all human rights and community, have any meaning for the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e339	I heard that the committee leader in his post had a very great sense of coastal pearls, while inland pearls, which we farmers from the interior also believe have qualities - the committee leader mentioned Evjemoen - did not stand high in the course. Now, Marvika is connected to salt water, so it has a value that goes beyond what you can get for it. But I want to repeat what I said in the reply to the rapporteur. The majority has ordered the disposal of properties as part of the financing of the modernisation of the defence we are facing. We have so many possibilities through our regulatory capability and the limitations that lie there. Kristiansand municipality will have full opportunity to decide what Marvika should be used for. That they should also sit and own the building stock on Marvika, it is still not possible for me to understand. But that we're going to take social responsibility, that's for sure. Otherwise Oscar Wilde is a wise man--or was it at least!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e353	The representative Hernæs wanted to share the Army's Transformation and Doctrine Command, TRADOK, both for Linderud and Østerdalen garrison with smaller elements in Base Troms. The Progress Party is of the opinion that TRADOK, with the exception of the War School, should be gathered in the Base Østerdalen and not split into different parts of the country. This includes, inter alia: because St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 provided the basis for the development of this area as the core area of the Army in South Norway. The Progress Party believes that it is appropriate to bring these together, inter alia: to make use of the resources invested in the area, such as the construction of a tactical training centre. The professional-military environment will benefit from it, it will have economic benefits, and it will mean a lot to a local environment where you have invested so much just to get the Defense coming. The question is then: What advantages does the representative here feel is breaking up TRADOK? And now he's going to attach how many numbers are being placed in those places?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e362	Until last, the answer is no. Of course, it could have been tempting to have been the head of defence, but there is no very likely development in the career cycle! And I have absolutely not thought that I should be on, from the Parliament's pulpit or in settings, trying to control in detail how the defense performs the tasks they are charged with from the overthrow and government. I think there's so much positive happening in the Østerdalen garrison that there must be a very special ability to see negative features when you can't rejoice that in Hedmark, which is one of the great winners in this for many other parts of the country painful process, there is a development that is to great delight for the whole area and in particular the Østerdalen garrison. That one could wish even more is probably a human trait, but at least there will be no more activity in the Østerdalen garrison by undermining the decision that we are now making in relation to the development of the Army in East Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e371	The representative, Hernæs, as head of defense - that was also a thought! The Minister of Defence said something about the frigates in Stavanger Aftenblad on 4 June that she was pleased that she did not make the decision on the frigates, and a little about the new tasks for the frigates. This is in line with the proposition we got a while ago about some optional equipment for the frigates, which had not yet been defined. The right went as far as I understood for the project when it was established. What does the representative here mean that these frigates will be used when they arrive at the water and incur annual operating costs of between 800 and 900 million. kr, according to the department? And is herenees happy with the decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e380	The representative Bjørklund can be absolutely sure that I'm not just happy, I'm very happy that we decided to acquire frigates. What are they for? If you read the setting, there are many words from all parties about the significance of the northern regions, the difficult areas that we have. And the frigates, along with the unit helicopters that we're going to acquire, that are going to replace the old Lynxs, and that have a completely different range and capacity, to my best belief, will be a very strengthening of our ability to enforce Norwegian sovereignty in these vast seas. That we get modern ships to, as it's called "nynorse", show the flag, will be of great importance. - So it's a decision I'm very pleased with. The Minister of Defense pointed out quite correctly that she was not the Minister of Defense at the time we decided to buy the frigates. But she was a member of the Stortinget and was involved in this decision as a wholesaler.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e394	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e397	In recent years there has been a broad consensus in the United Kingdom on the security and defence policy framework for defence activities. Since mid-2001, the defence has carried out one of the most extensive conversions in the history of the Norwegian public sector. The party considers it necessary to strengthen the defence capabilities. This implies that the economic framework must be regulated in relation to the tasks of the defence. On the other hand, the government is adding to a reduction in the previously adopted structure. I'm thinking in relation to St. Prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, cf. Inner. S. No 342 for 2000-2001, and St.prp. No 55 for 2001-2002, cf. Inner. S. No 232 for 2001-2002. What the Government is now doing, and which gets a majority in the Grand Duchy today, in the opinion of the Progress Party, will have serious and profound consequences for the Defence. We are therefore in favour of strengthening the structure in relation to the Government’s 2005-2008 proposals to EUR 124 billion in 2004. We would point out that a strong and long-term reduction in defence will have a serious impact on the flexibility of defence. It will be very difficult in a short time to build a strong defence if you reduce the stock to such an extent. A need for a significant strengthening of defence may be required as a result of unexpected changes in the everyday security policy. In this context, we will emphasise that our neighbourhood with Russia must give leadership to the task priorities of Defence. Russia has no democratic tradition and will have to prove its democratic anchoring over time. There has still not been a situation where a President-in-Office has spent a period of time, re-elected and lost to another candidate, and where the President-in-Office of the Council is passing the presidency on to the newly elected President. Only when there is a tradition of a democratic transfer of power through free elections will we be able to see that the democratic tradition has settled in the former Communist state. Until such a consolidation of democracy in Russia, we must have a critical attitude to the possible change of the current political line that is leading Russia. This is what the Government and the Defence must take inwards. We see major challenges in our neighbourhood, in the north with unexplained fishing zones and ongoing challenges in resource exploration and mapping in the north. Maritime defence has and will continue to have important tasks of ensuring Norwegian presence in these areas. The Coast Guard is a central resource here. Maritime defence will need more resources for operations in due course as the new frigates are phased in. It is important to take this into account in the future budgets. The Air Force contributes for its part to the lifting of sovereignty in the case of surveillance flights and the presence of fighter aircraft. Future challenges will require more air defence. New assignments and new times require the renewal of fighter and transport aircraft. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is important that a real initiative is now being taken to acquire transport aircraft. The acquisition of new fighter and transport aircraft must, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be financed outside the defence budget. The strong use of defence as a political instrument also leads to a change in the view of the Norwegian population on Defence. That's why it's a challenge to keep the popular link to the Defense. This is best ensured by general protection obligations and must be ensured through a scattered presence, distributed across the country. A strong HV will help secure a popular anchor for the Defense. Furthermore, HV is an important resource in the fight against the new threat, namely terrorism. In addition, the representative, Mr Bredvold, would like to say more about HV in his statement. Historically, Europe has been marked by wars and hostilities. Through EU and NATO enlargement, opposing states have gained common security policy interests. Democracy in the Member States is firmly anchored by links with the EU and NATO, and this helps to strengthen the new democracies. In the proposition, the role of the reserve order in the future defence has been mentioned under chapter. 6.4.3. When this section has not received any specific mention in the statement, it is naturally related to the fact that the committee, as I see it, supports the Heggheim Committee's recommendation on the future application of the reserve order in the new structure of the defence. It is beyond doubt that the reserve order will continue to play a significant role in the future as a well of strength for defence, as has been the case so far. It is worth noting that the reserve order has made up the majority of the order in the international commitments in which the Norwegian defence has participated throughout the post-war period. Furthermore, as indicated in the proposal, it is considered that appropriate contractual arrangements are to be drawn up for reserve orders, both for national and international services. These staff will be a valuable resource, especially in the case of low-interest actions and traditional UN peacekeeping missions, bringing with them both military and civil competence. It is therefore important for the Ministry to follow the intentions of the Proposition to establish and attach procedures for the recording of competences and development of competence on the military side. The obligation to provide protection will thus have a key role to play in this respect. It is important to note that the entire total defence should be able to draw on the use of the reserve order and thereby to make optimum use of the individual's overall civil and military competences. It should be noted that the available reserve order amounts to a number of more than 30000, including HV order. These are command-trained personnel in all grades that are often found in management positions in both public and private activities. Therefore, this is an important resource for the Defence in the future, and the Ministry is expected to follow up on the proposition at this point. The Party of Advances is very concerned that the Defence is to attract the most appropriate command. The proposed new chain of command thus raises concerns. The proposition says that the departmental order system will reach large groups who are not motivated for a longer theoretical education, but still want to work in the Defence. Furthermore, it states that this will increase the area of defence recruitment and provide a much better range of services to this group of young people. As we see these plays, it seems that in the future defense you don't need well-educated, resource-intensive command. This is also worrying in view of the impact of technological developments on defence equipment, as well as the ever-increasing requirement to master different types of advanced technology in everything from communication and control functions to the performance of tasks on the ground, at sea and in the air. It is difficult to imagine that youth education is a major resource for the defence as future leaders and executives responsible for the lives and health of others. The Committee has also stated that greater emphasis needs to be placed on the training of command in safety regulations such as the UD 2-1, as it is important that command has the ability and resources to absorb, understand and exercise these in-depth and highly theoretical but practical provisions, which, in our opinion, are not appropriate for school pupils. The Party opposes the imposition of an obligation to order for all orders, as well as for skilled and individual groups of civil servants. Today's law on the service of peace operations covers the need for defence to place Norwegian departments in international operations. Traditionally, the defence has been based on voluntary service abroad. The Progress Party considers that commissioning for service in international operations still needs to be voluntary for those who have employment from past regulations. Commands that have served internationally often see this as a natural part of their career development. Until now, there have been no problems of importance in recruiting voluntary orders for international operations. That's how we think it'll be in the future, too, as long as the defense facilitates practical and economic relations for further voluntary recruitment to foreign service. The Progress Party sees the potential challenge of ordering involuntary foreign missions as a passing phenomenon, as all professional orders after 1999 are automatically subject to mandatory order. This also applies to all those serving in e.g. The Telemark Battalion and other Development Units. The Progress Party is concerned about the feedback received from a study carried out by the BFO of the Recommendation, in March 2004, which shows that only 27 pst. the officers believe that the defence as an organisation is able to meet the needs of the officers for support and health follow-up after participation in international operations. Furthermore, it's only 17 pst. who believe that the management of the defence can take the necessary account of the social needs of the officers and their families if they are to be given the opportunity to order the officers for international operations. We believe that there is reason to stress the findings of the BFO study, and expect the defence to take action to address these issues. In addition, as a Vestfold representative, I am very pleased that the entire committee now wants to maintain both Mågerø and the marine music in Horten. I present the proposals included in the vote by the Progress Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre Party, and by the Progress Party and the Centre Party. There is an error in the configuration. Proposal No. 17 is a proposal from the Party of Advances and the Party of Centers, and not as it is set up, from the Party of Centrals and from the Party of Centrals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e434	We're going to do our best to correct this before we start voting, so there's no confusion. Otherwise, the representative Per Ove Wideth has taken up all the proposals he himself has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e441	The representative of the Progress Party exhibits a unique fascination when he talks about human resources policy. The Progress Party states in its recommendation to resolve the need for departmental order ordering short-term contracts of one, three and five years respectively, limited up to 15 years. So these are people who don't have any rights at all, and then you can really discuss whether it's school-based youth that's going to be recruited. The majority of the committee is not in favour of the Title Command Scheme described in the Proposition. In fact, the Roman Numeral Decision states that the current command system is adjusted as described in the suspension and that the scheme is to be evaluated during the period in cooperation with the organisations. Does the Progress Party still believe that the Stortinge is in favour of a school-based scheme for recruiting young people, when we actually say that they should be able to take a bachelor's degree while they are a departmental order?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e448	Yeah, that's right, as the representative Nybakk says. So we've recommended a different departmental order than the one that's going to have a majority today. But it's a paradox when it says at the same time that the defense wants to attract young people who are schoolchildren. How in all the world should young people who are schooled be able to take the Bachelor's and Master's degree in Defence? That must be my answer. I don't see any context in this, I just see a paradox.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e455	It's just to say that for the Progress Party, it's impossible to imagine that in a short period of time, young people can be schooled, and then later get the urge to complete high-level education. The rest of us have discovered that this could be the case. With regard to what has been the subject of debate in the last week, the JSF programme and the development project, the majority of the Committee, all except the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, joined the Government's desire to participate in the JSF programme. So the progress party was against. The progressing party further stated in the vote that they wanted to make a quick decision on the fighter aircraft project, and that they saw the need to make a principal decision on such an acquisition. And they also said that the choice of cooperation projects has to be seen in the context of subsequent acquisitions. I would like the representative Width to tell us now which cooperation project the Progress Party is in favour of, and which fighter aircraft the Progress Party thinks we should acquire in 2008 or 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e464	It may be, as it now seems, that this fighter aircraft problem will take so long that eventually we will not need either fighter aircraft or pilots. But as we've always pointed out, we haven't made any decisions about fighter planes. It has to be clear. We have said that we want real competition between the projects that are proposed - sentence finals. On the other hand, it may seem to me that the Council of State signaled at an early stage what type of aircraft she wanted, and it has worried the Progress Party. So there is no decision here, as the representative Hernæs says, until 2008-2009, but the debate has reached quite high levels in these days. But we haven't taken any stand. As I said, we only want real competition, but we think the situation shows a quite skeptical distribution between these tenderers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e469	In the vote, a majority, with the exception of the Progress Party, advocates that international operations should be anchored in international law through a mandate from the UN, without which we should refrain from participating in preventative warfare and pre-purchase attacks. So the Progress Party is now left alone to defend the behaviour of the United States in Iraq. Does the Progress Party really believe that pre-emption attacks create a safer world and that Norway should participate in them?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e474	Yes, it's no secret that the Progress Party supported the United States and the action they took in Iraq, which has proved to be absolutely necessary, even though it is possible to discuss what has happened afterwards. I think it is of great importance to world peace simply that the Americans take an initiative. With regard to preventative warfare, in some cases it can be right, not least with regard to the new threat that now exists, i.e. terror. If you can get rid of terrorist networks in this way, it's clear that the defense must have the opportunity to deploy resources so that it doesn't get to evolve.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e481	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e484	What does the future look like? Will we ever experience a world without war and conflict, where all people live in peaceful coexistence, a world where resources are spent on what can create good lives for all, without overexploiting the riches of the earth? Or are we going to have a world where greed is growing, where few experience limitless wealth, while more and more are experiencing distress and poverty, and anger and hatred are going to increase until finally it is not possible to continue? Maybe we should be happy that we can't look into the future. But unfortunately, it is often that I think that the time we live in is the same situation we think we will experience in the future, and therefore have to plan in relation to it. If someone had told us a generation ago that in 2004 we would be able to send a picture over a cell phone from across the globe and receive it on a street corner in Oslo the next moment, we would hardly have thought so. There are many such examples, and there's a lot of things that have happened that have changed our lives just since the wall between east and west disappeared. Many of these changes could not be predicted. Nor was what has happened in recent years since the United States Presidential change, with the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and severe international destabilization, easy to predict. This is a big challenge for us who are trying to figure out what could threaten the social order and the values we are so happy with, and in what way we're going to prepare for what might come, or in what way we're going to prevent it. It was maybe easier the time we had one enemy, or at least thought it, and also that the enemy would come from the east. Now it's not that simple anymore. The threat picture is more complex than before, and what are the real threats, it's not entirely agreed on. There is no full consensus, it shows the attitude - although I am pleased that there have been major changes in the understanding of this after the Minister of Defence presented his framework conditions to the Military Investigation a year and a half ago. Others are given their views, but for SV, the main security policy challenge is climate change, the growing prosperity gap, extreme poverty, the emergence of social unrest in our neighbourhoods, international crime, weapons of mass destruction, the negative effects of globalisation and proliferation of weapons. Most of these key security policy challenges cannot be solved by military means; they can, on the contrary, be reinforced by military warfare in some cases. It never means that we should not engage internationally, but it often means that there are other things than military instruments that we are going to offer to the international community. The most important thing we can offer to the international community is almost never special soldiers, but it's almost always the tools that come with good peoples and diplomatic, legal, economic, political and political instruments. You can't fight terrorism with frigates. Then it's too late, and that's why SV is so critical of fighting terrorism with military power. We have to ask ourselves, has the world become safer after the war in Afghanistan, and have we secured our security, or has it been weakened? I'm not going to let this slide into a foreign policy debate, but I'm very happy. I am very pleased that a majority in the Committee has taken a clear distance from Norway's taking after our leading allies and open to pre-emption attacks against countries on a false basis, and that it has been stated that international operations should be anchored in the UN mandate. I'm very happy about this, because it sends a signal. It sends a signal that we will take the UN seriously, and that has not been done by our leading ally in the last year. It has created enormous problems for the international community, caused enormous damage to be repaired, and if they are not repaired, more and more countries, such as Israel in Palestine and Russia in Chechnya, will make up for themselves, and we cannot live with that in a world where at present there is only one superpower. Some have said that in this situation NATO is more important than ever, as a kind of moderating force towards the United States. I have no faith that this is the case. But I'm recording that NATO has changed significantly in recent years. NATO still has nuclear weapons in its strategies. NATO has established its rapid reaction force. NATO is investigating its missile defence, setting up new capacities and making its out of-area strategy. It is not reassuring, in a situation where most of the challenges we face cannot be solved with military force. NATO now appears to be a politically weakened organisation, split over the Atlantic, but the instruments are sharper than in a long time. NATO is not going to be the solution to our security policy challenges. That's why our resistance to NATO stands firm. This long-term defence plan is a continuation of the reorganisation that started in 2001 through St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001. That plan was the beginning of a farewell to a defense designed to deal with invasion, and this plan is a continuation of this. But instead of the result being a smaller defence, based on the real challenges, it has become a costly defense, intended for international operations. It's sad, because it wouldn't have been necessary. SV also supports a change of defence, but believes that it is the real military challenges to be tackled militarily and that the rest should be handled in other ways. Norway is in a special position, with sovereignty over sea areas seven times the land area. The best legitimacy we can have for continuing to manage such huge areas is that we manage them well, against overfishing, against pollution, etc. Today, coastguard ships must still be at berth because we cannot afford to use them, and instead we are building new frigates. What is it that requires us to manage frigates better than coastguard ships? The defence structure will be heavily altered in this proposition. Many of these changes are sensible, and they also receive our support. Then there are some issues where the government's original proposal has changed. That's good, too. Of the most important in this category, I would like to mention the Coastal Chef Command, which remains in Harstad, the mid-level maintenance of F-16, which remains in the Urland, the musical orps and the activity of Mågerø, parts of the Defence Logistics Organisation, which remains in Kjeller, and the Lillehammer warehouse, which is maintained. But there's a lot of things in this proposition that there's a lot of disagreement about, and I'll mention a couple of them. Some of the things that surprise me with the proposition, and in part also the position of the majority, are the rather obscure flirting with the outsourcing of competition and privatisation that we see. Not because I am not familiar with the government's positive attitude towards privatisation and outsourcing of competition - it should be done without having had it - but the defence is in a special position in relation to other public activities. When it comes to extensive privatisation and outsourcing of competition, I find it alarming, not least in the light of the fact that there is very little consistency in whether increased purchases of private services and the exclusion of civil service tasks would actually lead to efficiency gains for the defence. And with the waste we have seen in some contexts within Defence, the Government should ensure that it at least knows that privatisation and outsourcing provide savings or not. But the government doesn't know that. And not only that, the government also has no visible desire to clarify it. This is remarkable. The defence's tasks are largely linked to vital social interests and fundamental social security. Now I am not aware that parts of the defence business without significant organisational problems can be seen as separate from other activities, which necessarily need to be more integrated into the defence's overall activity. However, what is alarming is that this moment in itself seems to be sufficient as a basis for privatisation by the Government. Finally, a little bit about the fighter planes. The matter of the fighter planes is complicated. And of course, these are huge economic interests in this matter. We have to live with that. But there are also defence and security policy dimensions, and that is far more important. What we need new fighter aircraft for in 2015 is a key question. Today, I see only two arguments being put forward for new fighter aircraft - and we are not the ones who put them forward. One is that Norwegian industry needs fighter aircraft contracts, and we need fighter aircraft to perform the kind of operations we did in Afghanistan from Kyrgyzstan in connection with Enduring Freedom. None of these arguments are good enough. We can't buy fighter planes to employ Norwegian industry. We could rather build something we needed. What we need to focus on is what kind of challenge we face in the future that requires capacity to have control of airspace, and essentially this must be linked to our large northern regions. Therefore, we should now take two steps back and make an overall assessment of what kind of needs we want to meet. Now the proposals on which SV is co-sponsored have been addressed. I would then like to address the proposals that SV has made on its own. Proposal No. 17 I want to make it clear that SV is not behind it. It's promoted by other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e518	That's what we've got. The representative of Kjetil Bjørklund mentioned the suggestions he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e525	The representative, Kjetil Bjørklund, introduces his contribution by saying that it is difficult to predict the future, but we actually have a case in the setting that is concrete and close, and that is important for Norwegian industry, and that industry needs a minimum of knowledge about a more or less close time horizon. It's about frigate purchase. Today, the frigate purchase has led to one vessel being seagoing, and we are still waiting for four more to be sailed. These are to be largely inserted into our northern regions, an area of which Bjørklund was busy. Norway, and not least the Norwegian industry, has also noted well about this purchase. The repurchase agreement ensures Norwegian industry, and the same goes for the Norwegian defence for the years to come. But how does SV think that their proposals to cancel the purchase of frigates will affect Norwegian industry, and not least the ability to monitor our northern regions, and my SV that it would be reasonable to use money to pay large amounts for marine vessels we don't get? I didn't think SV had such a big defense budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e535	The size has adopted a project related to the establishment and acquisition of frigates that will become a headache for a long time to come. That's the situation. SV did not agree with that decision at the time it was set up, because we believed that frigates would not meet the needs we are actually facing. I was interested in it in my post: How can we manage frigates better than we can, for example. with several coastguard ships, which could be an alternative? The situation now is that we have problems in being able to reverse a decision. And then there's a question of how we relate to it. We rely on it in that way that we go into the matter and start to assess what alternatives can be available for termination, for sale, for construction to other capacities that we need more, or are we going to let it scour and go? I record that it is most interested in the latest in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e542	The representative of Bjørklund confirmed the resistance of SV to NATO. It was okay to clarify it, and I think it's fair and quite natural. NATO resistance and resistance to defence and Norwegian security policy were well-intentional and birth aid for SV in its time, so it is okay that he takes care of his past. It likes a conservative party. Now I understand that SV is also not a hot member of the EU and the security and defence cooperation that is developing there, and I have registered that SV will cut the defence budget by at least NOK 18 billion. Then my question is: who does SV want us to cooperate with - with a possible exception of the Nordic Council? All our other neighbouring countries, all the Nordic countries, are involved either in the EU or in NATO and thus have committed cooperation with other countries in relation to their security. Does Kjetil Bjørklund and SV mean that Norway should stand alone in a world that he himself is uncertain about what will look like in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e549	So SV wants another defense. SV wants a defensive defence where it is the domestic challenge that is dimensioning the defence structure and where we establish cooperation with the neighbouring countries that have interests in common with ours. To meet the domestic challenge, I might particularly mention the need for credible lifting of sovereignty and control in the areas of the north that need to be emphasised. Of course, we want cooperation with other countries. But as the representative Hernæs so well knows, our answer is often not narrow geographical or security alliances, but the great international community, through the UN. That's where we want to get legitimacy for the dispositions of world security in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e556	One thing I agree with Kjetil Bjørklund in, and that is that we need to focus a lot more on the domestic challenges. The defence must not only be based on foreign operations, but we have huge tasks at home and in our neighbourhoods. But I wonder how SV has intended to fight terrorism -- that's the great, unbridled danger in today's society -- other than to fight back by the same means. The simplest thing you can do about it is terrorism. Shall we talk about solutions? It hasn't worked so far. Then it just has to be turned back by the same means and well and well. You have to use military power. There's no other way. I would like an explanation of what other possibilities SV sees.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e565	Thank you for the invitation! SV believes, as you know, that terrorism is essentially unsolvable through military use of power, and that in some cases military use of power can actually contribute to strengthening that type of activity. We believe that terrorism cannot be dealt with by military means, because once the estimate has been made, it is too late. That must be prevented. It can be prevented by means other than the military, through the international community, through legal, diplomatic, political, economic and political instruments. It's the most effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e572	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e575	The Christian People's Party is satisfied with a settlement with the Workers' Party on the long-term proposition. This means that the broad political consensus in the security and defence policy will continue. Modernisation of defence depends on stable and predictable frameworks, defined and concrete objectives and adapted instruments. The conversion process in the Defence was necessary in order to establish consistency between defence structure and funding. It is important to shift the costs from operation to investment. That's why the goal was to cut operating costs by NOK 2 billion, cut down by 5000 a.m. and dispose of $2 million. m2 building mass. You don't go through such processes without pain, but it's important that the money that's given to the Defense provides the best possible operational capability. Developments must be based on the capabilities needed by the defence in order to perform its tasks in the most efficient way possible. Therefore, the priority is now to deployable capacities, with high mobility and response capacity, quality and availability. The Christian People's Party will underline the importance of a modern and flexible, high-quality Norwegian defence that can effectively contribute to the preservation of both Norwegian and international security. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that a majority in the Defence Committee believes that Norway should refrain from participating in preventative warfare and pre-emptive attacks that do not have a clear foundation in international law. It is essential that all military use of power has a clear foundation in international law. In addition, political and moral legitimacy is necessary. In addition, military engagement abroad must be the subject of a broad and open debate, because popular anchoring is necessary to ensure the legitimacy of the operation. Preventive warfare should, in principle, lead to a legitimate government. When the war itself becomes an attack on human dignity, it loses all legitimacy. We must insist on respect for human rights, even in war situations. Here, Norwegian defence has put good principles into practice when it becomes clear that respect for human dignity applies even when power is used. I am pleased that the defence's value base is actively used in both education and service, and that the majority of the defence committee follows up with political framework conditions that give Norwegian foreign exposure a clear anchor in international law. The proposition emphasises the defence's value base, and the formulations that stand there are important. It says that the values of defence must be "based on the values of society and given attention to all education, as well as in the service of the various departments and institutions of defence". I would also like to refer to comments both in a position of the Justice Committee and here in the position of the Defence Committee, pointing out that it is essential to build good teaching arrangements relating, among other things, to this issue. international policy, international law, multicultural understanding and crisis management. There is a study at the Hedmark College that captures this and is used by the Rena Telemark Battalion. The Christian People's Party sees that this arrangement can be further developed and offered to other target groups in the Defence and others who need it. The field priests have a very important role in relation to training in the religious and cultural knowledge of soldiers and commands to carry out foreign operations. Self-understanding and foreign understanding are in a clear context in meeting the challenges posed by foreign service. Knowledge and awareness of one's own cultural and religious roots make understanding of another's religion and culture easier. To a large extent, the moral qualities of crews and command will determine the outcome of the defence mission in the years to come. Therefore it is important for the Christian People's Party that mind-creating work is continually followed up at all levels of the Defence. The Christian People's Party believes that the UN is the main framework for global security work and that NATO remains a cornerstone of Norwegian security policy. Both diplomatic, economic and military instruments must be exploited in the work of international peace and reconciliation. The obligation to submit a complaint is necessary to ensure access to, and interest-rate units to, all of the defence’s tasks, both nationally and internationally. In addition, the obligation to challenge will be important in order to ensure the allocation of the competence of international operations, to allow the right person to be placed in the right place and to impose fair burdens on the personnel. However, it is important to stress that family obligations should be taken into account when ordering abroad. The imposition of an order for Norwegian soldiers will only apply to operations with a clear international legal base. For the Christian People's Party, a comprehensive security policy thinking is very important. A comprehensive defence concept must strengthen cooperation between civil and military preparedness, and the total resources must ensure that society is equipped to meet the challenges posed by the new threat and modern terrorism. Defence is a central security policy instrument. Within the framework of the overall defence concept, the defence shall have as one of its tasks contributing to social security. A comprehensive and modern concept of total defence will thus consist of mutual support between defence and civil society throughout the crisis spectrum. Home protection has a central role in social security work, with its territorial responsibility. In this context, the Christian People's Party believes that the adopted quality reform is absolutely necessary. The modernised structure of the protection structure shall consist of 50000 active staff and 33,000 reserve personnel. Given the budgetary profile to which this proposition refers, the Home Office will have a certain increase in its budgets, so that there is room for increasing quality. As early as 2005, approx. 150 million. kr is set aside for tangible investment by the Home Protection Agency, a sum which is increased to approx. 250 million. kr in 2008. This is a significant increase from the current level of less than 100 million. kr. A new organisation chart for the Home Security will be ready by 1 January 2006 at the latest. As regards the Home Security Reserve, the Swedish Defence Agency will have a key role to play in establishing a competence database and maintaining contact with the personnel. It is necessary to further develop cooperation between the Home Office, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and the Police Directorate. In the development of a new overall defence concept, all back-up schemes should be seen in the context. Home security is an important link between defence and civil society. The county shall work for civil-military cooperation locally and regionally, maintain good contact with Home Affairs and take initiatives to coordinate plans and exercises in the area of total defence. Following the new division of districts, it will be important to look at areas where vulnerability and social security go across borders, for example: Kongsvinger region. There are many border crossings in the area, and the high-traffic rail and road go to Oslo and Gardermoen. Therefore, close cooperation with Akershus is still necessary. This last, but important sentence: "That is why close cooperation with Akershus is still necessary," has unfortunately been removed from the final position, but the reality is still the same. I therefore ask the Council of State to note this and to pass it on. St.meld. No 39 for 2003-2004, social security and civil-military cooperation are addressed in the United Kingdom. The Committee considers the Communication to be so important for our overall defence that we need time to continue working on it, even though it would have been best to deal with the long-term proposition of defence and the social security message in parallel to make it easier to see the whole of the overall defence concept. The northern regions, with our large seas, are important in the overall defence concept. That's the sum of what the different departments and directorates do, which shows how we deal with the challenges in the area. Norwegian social security is directly affected by the potential pollution hazard associated with military or former military activity in North-West Russia. Increased oil and gas extraction in the northern regions and extensive shipping of oil and gas along our coast will increase the risk of pollution. Multinational cooperation and continued joint efforts to reduce and eliminate potential environmental threats to the vulnerable ecology of the Barents Sea and to social security are crucial here. Coast Guard is one important contribution that needs sufficient resources to ensure safety and preparedness along the northern maritime corridor and along the coast, but defence has many important tasks in the area. Finally, the Christian People's Party is in government and is therefore part of the political basis of the proposition. In the setting, we're part of the majority comments. That is why I have not gone into detail, because I wanted to bring the peace dimension of defence into the debate as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e630	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e633	The representative, Wisløff Nilssen, has always been concerned with social security, and the theme of the article. She is also the case rapporteur for the vote on St.prp. No 39 on civil-military cooperation. My question is: how does the representative Wisløff Nilssen view the organisation of civil-military cooperation between the police, the Home Office and the county council, both nationally and not least locally? After all, HV is the most important link between defence and civil society. My main problem with this is that the Constitution says that one cannot use military power against Norwegian citizens. Then the question is, can HV be used against civil, Norwegian citizens in a terrorist situation? There is a question that stands unanswered for me, whether it is actually possible to bring Home Protection against Norwegian citizens with military power.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e640	It's true that I'm concerned with social security, because I want to see the overall defence concept as a whole. It goes so far that each of us also has a social security responsibility in the job we do. But this we can discuss further beyond the fall. With regard to Home Security and civil-military cooperation, I feel the need for us to take some seminars and meet beyond the fall to discuss just this. When it comes to not using military power against their own citizens in relation to terror, it's clear that it's the police who's responsible, and they have to ask the defense when they need it. But I think we should get to some meeting places before we give the position to the autumn, where we get a discussion of both thoughts and ideas and can get a little response not least from the police in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e649	Of what is mentioned in St.prp. No 42, no field of defence has been as affected as the Home Guard, with a reduction from 83,000 to 50,000 men, the division of crews, etc. as well as a large reduction in the number of Homeland Districts from today's 18 to 13. In contrast to the Progress Party, which still wants 18 districts, the representative Wisløff Nilssen sees the advantages of reducing by five districts, among other things. HV-04 in Kongswinger is being wiped out? Here, a well-functioning district is being removed and a new Hedmark/Uppland district is being created. The districts are going to be large. Previous investment in personnel and buildings/infrastructure has been wasted and there will be a fastening without military activity, with the exception of a commanding team of three persons. The costs of operation and maintenance of the fastening remain there. Why this aggregation of districts? And if it's time, I'd like to hear a little bit about the 33,000 that's going to be a reserve-- I'd rather maybe put them in a mill bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e657	The government actually got an order that the districts should be seen, so they've just followed it up. What I see as positive in this district division is that it largely follows the county boundaries, but there are several counties that are merged into one district. It's okay with social security, where the county has an active task. So that's where I think you should get good solutions. But, as I also said in my post, sometimes a look has to be across the county boundaries, and I expect that to be done. In the case of HV-04, there is no doubt that I have worked to preserve the Home Protection in Kongswinger, but when it did not work, I have said yes, it is allowed to stare a day or two, but then we just fold up our sleeves and see what we get for further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e664	It is rare for me to hear representatives of the Christian People's Party who trouble our relationship with NATO as a defence alliance. NATO has a strategy for the use of nuclear weapons that opens up the use of nuclear weapons in given situations. Nuclear weapons are the weapons that can roll this entire globe into chaos, if it comes into operation. Does the Christian People's Party believe that NATO should abandon its nuclear strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e671	I see NATO as important for Norway's security and for our security policy. I see it as an important alliance for defence cooperation where we can also cooperate on defence materials and in many other areas. Then such challenges as nuclear weapons come in as something we have to discuss with NATO. There we just have to say what we mean. In the Christian People's Party, we are clear that we are against nuclear weapons. We also have to look at it in a larger context, and try to make the NATO alliance strong and good in a sensible way also in relation to the defense capabilities that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e676	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e679	Today’s approach demonstrates agreement on a good part of the security policy challenges and the defence-related developments. It's positive. At the same time, however, the setting also shows a strong distinction between the government parties and the Workers' Party on the one hand and the other parties on the other hand in relation to some important aspects of defence and security policy. With the limited speaking time I have, I will choose to concentrate on what separates. In particular, there are three issues that create a distinction in the position of the Committee. One is the question of whether a good balance has been found between national and international defence tasks. The second is whether the structure to which it is now added will lead to a more centralised and vulnerable defence. And the third is that many of us would think that the degradation that is now proposed in Homeland Protection is both unfortunate and unnecessary. Swallow if we can agree that the security policy image has changed, and sail if we can also agree that the defence is no longer affected by a single threat, which should once again be the dimension of the defence activity, then there are actually aspects of our defence policy situation that have not changed. It's Norway's geographical location. The fact that Norway is in a strategically important maritime area, that we are at the brink of a major act, and that political attention is increasing around the north should also have implications for our threat assessment and our defence policy priorities. In the opinion of the Centre Party, these conditions are not sufficiently addressed in the long-term plan we are discussing today. The Central Party considers that such considerations should be better reflected both in future defence planning and in the actual presence of defence units. The second issue that also distinguishes within the Committee is the question of whether the structure it is now included in the long-term plan will create a more centralised and vulnerable defence. Some of us think that would be the case. We all agree that the conversion of the defence is necessary. No one's going to make it all the way to the old one. But I have to ask if one really creates more consistency between defence structure and funding when the ambitions for material investment are very large, and when in some cases there is an insistence on centralisation of tasks that in themselves are cost-intensive. I think in this context, for example. on the movement of the 335-square drone from Gardermoen to Rygge. The centre party is of the opinion that the transition is now so rapid that new expenditure and additional costs are created only because of it, while the uncertainty among employees is reported to be very high. I believe that there is reason to question whether the money that is now being granted gives the best possible operational capability, because it is also, of course, a question of what operational capability we actually want. The third relationship that also creates separation in the Committee is the issue of the future organisation of Home Affairs. Some of us believe that this long-term plan is an unnecessary and unfortunate downgrading of Homeland Protection. I also do not think that anyone disagrees with the need to change and change their home protection, but at the same time it must be possible to do so in such a way that one does not destroy the HV's peculiarity and advantage. HV's peculiarity and preference is the popular anchoring, it's local knowledge and it's volunteering. HV is also important for building a willingness to defend in the Norwegian people. It can be a willingness to defend and a legitimacy that the Defence in the future depends more on than they might think today. The center party thinks that the reduction of 50,000 men is unnecessary, and we believe that there does not seem to be any place to be documented that one needs exactly 5,000 men in a new effort force. Another possible combination that would have been better would have been to reduce the number of people in the so-called intervention force, and rather to choose to have a larger standing HV strength. I must also say that with the strong centralisation of districts it is no longer exhaustive to say that HV is a nationwide element within the Defence. So the central party believes that the government and the bulk of the population here are going too far in both the international and the deplorable and the so-called power collection, which is only synonymous with centralization. They are not willing to problem the question of which units we should actually deal with internationally, and whether centralisation actually saves costs. I must also be allowed to correct a small error that is in the setting. On page 73, first column, it appears that the Center Party is united with the Advance Party to terminate the fighter aircraft development project. We're not going to do that. So there's been a mistake. Otherwise, I would like to raise a point of order. 29, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e707	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e712	When you hear the Central Party talk about defence policy, the Central Party could have basically made only one position where it could say: the Central Party supports today's structure in defence and has the following minor changes. It's just that we no longer have cold war, and we have an unpredictable enemy. We don't know where the enemy comes from, and we need high-quality mobile forces that can move quickly, for example. from the inner Troms, and out into the North Sea, if necessary. This also applies to Homeland Protection, which has not been changed in any particular way since World War II. The back then was adapted to some kind of April 9 situation - which is also the current one - in the case that we were to be invaded from the east. Does the representative not understand that 50,000 HV soldiers - well-equipped, better trained and of higher quality - and a special force of up to 5000 people are better adapted to today's threat picture?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e723	I must first be allowed to say that I believe that the comment of the chairperson of the Defence Committee on the defence policy of the Central Party was unnecessary. It is not that simple, and it also knows the chair of the Defence Committee - if she has read the position. It's not that any of us want everything to be the way it has been. Neither does the Center Party when it comes to Homeland Protection. We say that you can reduce the strength of today, from 83,000 men to 70,000 men, but we can't see that it's in any way proven that you actually need exactly 5,000 in an effort force, for which the Workers' Party is in favour. Not even civil authorities have demonstrated the need for such a strength. Neither from the hearings we've had, can I see that it's been demonstrated. It must then be allowed to ask questions about whether it is necessary to build up an effort force of 5,000 men - which will be very expensive - at the expense of the standing Home Office, which has many advantages. As far as districts are concerned, it is possible that the head of the Defence Committee of the Workers Party thinks that we are unnecessarily conservative. But I can assure you that many of her party members across the country are in complete agreement with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e732	No one has said that the intervention force should be of exactly 5,000 men. I think Marit Arnstad knows that. What I want to address is that throughout the post-war period, there has been a very broad anchoring in the Storting in terms of defence and security issues. There's been one exception, and that's SV. The centre party has been part of this broad alliance for the entire period - under different governments. This time, the Center Party is breaking diametrically with that attitude. They are now promoting together 20 proposals - together with the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, together with only the Advance Party and alone with the Socialist Left Party. What's the challenge in such a context is that we understand that Marit Arnstad also has an ambition to form government at some point in time. Of course, it should be forbidden by the voters, but if the unimaginable happens, you can't ignore this. Then my question becomes: what defence policy does Marit Arnstad intend to put on - together with possible partners, such as Sv?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e741	It is right that we, together with other parties, promote a number of excellent minority proposals in the vote - for example. continuing Hauk-class MTBs, 335-square at Gardermoen, maintaining LDKS at Trondheim and establishing ARBC school at Rena. These are suggestions that I also think Right -- if it had been the good, old Right, maybe in opposition -- would have supported. But they don't dare anymore. Then it becomes the Progress Party, the Center Party and the SV that are united in this. Otherwise, I do not see anything at all dark about possible government cooperation with the Workers' Party and SV in terms of defence policy. But I hope that the Right can give me some advice on the cooperation with the Workers' Party, because they are working well with their so-called main enemy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e748	The Central Party has district policy as one of the most important messages. Then it is very strange that the Centre Party - unlike the Advance Party - opposes the increase in the purchase of private services and the exclusion of tasks for civilians, which will mean great financial savings for the Defence. Local communities are given a job and earn money. The population and the service offer are maintained - as well as that the defence gets more for the money. Another important element is the possibility of public/private cooperation or public/private partnerships, which will strengthen already existing private companies in rural areas. For the Progress Party, this is the right way of thinking about the use of funds by the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e756	We do not have district policy as the most important thing. We have a broad and good defence policy as the most important thing - which takes account of the geographical location of Norway, which strengthens the northern regions, which strengthens the Home and Maritime Protection, and which does not create a centralised and highly vulnerable defence. With regard to the outsourcing of tasks and public/private solutions, I am afraid that the process is now overstepping, that a person simply uses that type of project to ensure that the manning process is reduced in an easy way. Then the number of employees who are actually out of the defense is getting better than the Storting. I think that one here should have ice in your stomach and rather wait, evaluate the ongoing launching projects you have, and see how they have turned off - not least for those who are affected - before a goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e763	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e766	The left is pleased that there is a broad majority in the UK that supports the government's proposal to modernise the defence. After the cold end of the war, Norway is facing an extended security concept, where military risks are less, while environmental risks, risks of political, social and economic instability, among others. in our neighbourhoods, is larger. The new threat picture is largely about conflicts of interest, scarce resources, ethnic conflicts, limited armed conflicts, ABC weapons on the wane and, in particular, terrorist actions. The left considers that Norwegian defence needs to be transformed, modernised and streamlined in order to meet these new challenges. Within an economic framework of the defence budget of less than DKK 30 billion, the objective must be to create a modern and effective defence, based on the resources available. The left also believes that it is important to continue a turn away from a unilateral invasion defence towards a smaller and more flexible defence. We are therefore pleased that the proposed mandate has been given a broad majority in the Committee's position. On the other hand, an expanded ability to order personnel for operations abroad requires clarification of the types of operations in which Norwegian personnel can be employed. The left fully supports the majority of the Defence Committee, which states that Norwegian participation in international operations must be based on both legality and legitimacy. The left, like the committee, is of the opinion that Norwegian participation in international operations must be enshrined in international law. In addition, political and moral legitimacy is necessary. Furthermore, it is important that military engagement abroad is the subject of a broad and open debate. This is essential to anchor a Norwegian foreign policy in the people. The left also believes it is good that the majority of the committee states that Norway must therefore continue to abstain from participation in preventative warfare and pre-emption attacks, which do not have a clear foundation in international law. However, I must be allowed to wonder why the Progress Party has not found it right to support such a formulation. Among the traditional challenges, the Left is satisfied with the special focus on the north and the strengthening of coastal protection in the north. While the defence priorities must meet Norway's international obligations, we must also ensure stability in the northern regions. The left is also well pleased with the majority's agreement on the modernisation of Home Protection, a reform involving a differentiation of Home Protection while raising quality, in terms of training, equipment and response capabilities. This is completely in line with the view of the Left. Finally, it is important for a liberal party that any body in our society that exercises authority, whether it be the teacher, the police or the military, be recruited as widely as possible, both socially, culturally and geographically. The current system of safeguards is not sufficiently adapted to the needs of the new defence. Today, about half of all Norwegian men serve first time, but there are still too many in relation to defence needs. At the same time, the term of protection becomes too short for many guardians in relation to the training needed with the new advanced technology. The Norwegian defence of the future requires fewer but better trained mobile forces, which are well equipped and trained in cooperation with our allies. The left will continue to base the Norwegian defence on the general duty of protection for men. Most guardians, on the other hand, can serve a short service in the future, while others can choose longer service with pay and training opportunities. This will ensure the need for the defence for better educated and better trained soldiers, such forces as there is also a broad consensus that we need to tackle the international tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e792	We are debating the modernisation of defence. It is a little strange that the outreach service is given priority. We're at war in other countries. Our soldiers are on war missions. No, they're not at war, says the Prime Minister. Our soldiers who are out, and who lose their lives in war, should at least have been told about it, but they don't. In my military service one was to die for the King, the flag and the homeland. I wonder who they're gonna die for, the soldiers we've got out now. It cannot be for the King, the flag and the homeland they die. We're a great force on the ocean. Together with Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, Iceland and Russia, we manage enormous values of food, energy and transport. This is to be taken care of by the Coast Guard, and they get little money. I guess they'll get 2 pst. of the defence budget, which is just under 30 billion kroner. 70 pst. of our export income comes from the sea. We have obligations under international law to preserve values such as oil, gas, shipping and food. And this is to be done by a coastguard who gets little money. They'll get 700 million. kr of a huge defence budget. It is less than what has been allocated to the State budget for parental education, i.e. 785 million. kr, while the Coast Guard gets 700 million. kr. Now I'm not going to set one group up against the other. But just to put it a little bit into perspective, we're going to spend 785 million. kr for mother tongue training, while the Coast Guard receives 700 million. kr. Think about it a little bit! The local is suffering while we are engaged abroad. We cut the guard, and we cut the Home Guard and give them a bigger job. We're weakening Homeland while we're giving them more to do. This is not a good priority, to say it mildly. I refer to the proposal that has been distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. There should have been a lot of suggestions, but I don't have any more today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e813	The representative Steinar Bastisen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e816	I don't intend to talk about FLO or TRADOK, ISAF, ESDP or other tribal abbreviations, or other important things. I'll try to see the further modernisation of the Defense from a helicopter, try to get the big, overall picture. After having followed the defense for many years, I have observed that most debates tend to end with two clear fronts. In one camp, which we can call the blue camp, find a frequent old generals, or officers who think they've been generals, and SVs. The new thing now is that the Progress Party has ended up in that camp. Those who make up this group will have a defense that can meet challenges as they were on April 9, 1940. In the other camp, the red camp, those who have taken September 11th and the new threat picture of international terrorism are inwards and adapts the Norwegian defence to this. In my opinion, the majority of the caste, the government parties and the Workers' Party, also in this plan, have put in place a proper priority, with more resources for operational activities. Norway has never been able to defend itself. We have always built our defence and security policies on alliances where NATO has been the most important thing. Now we want to see more and more cooperation between some NATO countries, as we have seen between Norway, Denmark and the Netherlands. Material acquisitions are expensive and European countries have misinvested so that a division of labour in the alliance is correct and necessary. We must realise that Europe is growing stronger and stronger together and will eventually become a more equivalent and balanced partner to the United States of America in NATO. It is crucial that the defence leadership succeeds in conversion and innovation. There is no doubt that the threat picture has changed dramatically. "Nine-eleven," they say in America. It was 911 days after "nine-eleven" that a train was blown up in Madrid. There was a merchant who had opened his small shop there twelve years earlier, and who all looked like a nice guy, who was on the train and blew up. The cell had been ordered to strike. According to experts, it only takes six months to build a new cell. It would be naive to think that Norway is not a target of terrorism. New and enhanced cooperation between military and civil protection is therefore necessary. In the United States, Homeland Security has been given great authority, and in England, the MI5 is strengthened by hundreds of postures. It is necessary that we also pay greater attention to intelligence and closer cross-border cooperation. I started by saying that I tried to look at the defense from a helicopter perspective. I'll now try to land. The question arises as to whether I land on private grounds, in public or military matters. I don't understand what the Government has after selling out public-owned recreational areas. We have money in the treasury. It can't be for the money that we sell. The Labour Party will have to review the decisions we have taken, as they are interpreted by the Council of State. My opinion is that the Council of State should take into account the rights of all persons when selling. This has not been done by the Council of State, and it is regrettable. I have met many motivated and competent employees in the Defence Department. I therefore believe that the Defence will deal with the major challenges and changes that come closer and closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e837	I would like to start by thanking the Committee and the rapporteur for a very good attitude. It achieves the main objectives that the proposition drew up. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent presentation on the individual points. So I can also focus a little more on the overall. I want to start by saying what Gunnar Halvorsen's representative said, that the world was significantly changed after September 11th, perhaps primarily in the way that we took inwards that the world had changed. This means that there are three main objectives for defence policy. One objective is to reconcile structure and funding at home in Norway. To this end, it is also necessary to have a defence structure at home in Norway that is modern and adapted to the new era, a defence we can be proud of, and that increases operational capability. The second objective is that, as a NATO member, we must also ensure that NATO undergoes the modernisation and the change required by the new era. Because we know that we've always been dependent on an alliance, we have a self-interest in making sure that happens. In addition, we know that we best care for our interests in NATO by being a solid and proper member, who helps to provide the other dragons, in fact, also in their modernisation. That is why we have supported the new capacity initiatives in NATO, we have supported the creation of the rapid reaction force in NATO - and then we must be able to contribute to the rapid reaction force - and we have supported a new command structure, which is a more efficient use of resources. That brings me to the third objective. In order for us to meet the first two objectives, we have to have first-class personnel. We have to recruit the best through the duty of protection, based on the needs of the defence. Then we have to ensure that we have a command-school education that gives people the competence that is also relevant in a civil education system. We need to have a departmental order to bring together, through their working conditions, a competence that is useful both civil and military. We simply have to have the best personnel. We're a high-cost country, i.e. that there is the right man in the right place and the high level of competence that is our priority, our advantage. Based on these three overall objectives, I have developed some strategies that I am pleased that the Committee has joined. One strategy is the Jåtta strategy. The Jåtta strategy is about making sure that we get a NATO headquarters on Norwegian soil that helps to link the experiences of the operations with the exercises we set up. That means that the Jåtta strategy also provides leadership for which other NATO countries are extremely important to us, and it is European NATO countries that are close to us. That's why the second strategy, namely the North Sea Strategy, is approaching countries like the Netherlands, Denmark, the United Kingdom and Germany, because it gives us greater defence capacity, because it gives us cost savings by getting our logistics easier, taking more action on operations, and getting more help at home when we need it. And to realize these overall strategies, we need a third strategy, the Akershus strategy. We need effective management. We need to have an integrated defence department at Akershus with military leaders embedded, so that we can get the ability to fast decision-making, rapid conversion, in line with the world that has changed, the new goals we have drawn, and the need we see to save costs and spend money better. That's why this proposition had three main objectives: More tangible forces. That's what we get. A personnel reform. That's what we get, and we get an increased operational capacity by shifting resources from support structure and logistics structure to the pointed end, from 60-40 to 40-60 percent. We get that, and it's very good. St. pp. No 55 for 2001-2002 marked the first step in the broad alliance. St. pp. No 42 and the settings that have been delivered mark step 2, and it's a very good continuation of the reorganization we've started.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e854	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e857	The defence support functions have a lag in relation to the military organisation. There's a broad consensus here. There is agreement that the support functions should be built down, but that does not mean privatisation. As the representative Arnstad said earlier here today, the defense is in a special position. So we're not talking about Rimi or Rema, we're talking about Norway's defence. If it is that massive privatisation is now taking place because the defense is not able to reduce the number of 5,000 men, among other things. military employees, maybe we should look at expenses instead of on the number of people in the future. At least it hasn't been our intention. The State Council Party participates in an obliging remark in this suspension, where cost-effectiveness shall be documented as a prerequisite for outsourcing of work, where any outsourcing should provide better services, taking into account preparedness and operationality and delivery security. Can the Council of State promise that this will be taken into account when considering any outsourcing of tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e868	I can confirm that we base the setting on the further process of modernising and downgrading the support structure. It is important that we agree that the support structure and the logistical structure should be reduced in terms of resources and personnel. It's solid. In fact, the Committee goes even further than the proposal, saying that if the cost-reduction measures mentioned are not managed, it is possible that the support structure and the FLO may need to be strengthened. At the same time, I can confirm that this Council of State is not a party to privatisation for the sake of privatisation. I fully agree that we need to establish an emergency link. We're going to be able to deal with both an article 5 situation and another situation, where we have to react quickly, and we're going to assume that we have a real savings. But sometimes you get a real savings by being able to buy the service when you need it, instead of having the staff available all year round.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e878	After hearing the Council of State now, I have to say that I have received a further emphasis that the Council of State is a champion of a reduction of the defence that I think is completely irresponsible. It's not just September 11th. We also have a defense that has been under restructuring for a long time, and I think we have to take it inward that it's not just to throw the old and say that now it's something new, because if we've had 11 September in between. That's it. So to something else. It is a fact in Norway today that, at Telemark battalion, we have very good elite soldiers who are both suitable and trained for sharp assignments, for example. in Afghanistan and Iraq. It is claimed that soldiers from the 6th division with a much shorter and less operational background will replace these forces. I have to ask: does the Minister for Defence think it is right to send soldiers with this background out in sharp assignments, as a substitute for the Telemark battalion?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e887	To the last question first, there's a difference between Telemark battalion and 6th division. But both Telemark battalion and 6th Division have taken on international missions. They've rotated for each other. They have done so in Kosovo, and we are planning to do so in Afghanistan. That doesn't mean that 6th division doesn't have a high enough quality compared to what they're going to do. In particular, I would like to point out the 6th Division unit that has been responsible in Kosovo this spring. It has perhaps been the most demanding mission ever in Kosovo. There have been riots. We've had to perform dangerous mass services, and our people from the sixth division have the best character of all NATO forces, from the top general himself, SACEUR. There's not necessarily a difference between age and quality. The questioner is right that Telemark battalion is more specialised and older, but also Telemark battalion cannot be out continuously. They also have to be home and retrained, and they have a right to rotation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e896	Our leading ally, the United States, is breaking the Geneva Convention in both Iraq and Guantanamo in Cuba, a situation and a type of attack that the whole world is taking a break from. At the last meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, there was a fierce debate on other NATO countries that could gain insight into such a treatment of people as that of Guantanamo. But the United States said no. Is the Minister of Defence saying that a NATO country can do anything, as long as it does without NATO being directly involved, or can take an initiative to lift these abuses on a principle basis, for example. at the NATO summit in Istanbul, and gain clarity on which country in the same alliance can allow itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e903	It is no secret that the Norwegian view of the treatment of prisoners is different from the American view. There is no secret that inside American prisons there is a completely different situation than in Norwegian prisons. Nor is it a secret that Norway has reacted very strongly to the revelations from the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq, and that we have demanded both that the guilty be punished and that it be cleared up in the command lines. Norway is an important player in ensuring that human rights and humanitarian rights and the Geneva Convention are respected. I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs uses all the opportunities he has in the international forums, just to address these questions. As for the part of these questions that sort under me, the operations we're in, we've clearly addressed the questions related to Abu Ghraib. I can't rule out that this will be one of the discussion themes that comes up in Istanbul, but it's too early to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e910	The centre party is afraid that we are now getting a more centralised and vulnerable defence. There are a lot of redundancies and cancellations of units. The link between structure and costs is justified. At the same time, there is a large question mark on the effective control of the costs of both investment and operations in the defence sector. We're now facing frigates that can cost not 12, but maybe over 20 billion kroner. There is an overtime use and a consulting practice in the defense only the last year of nearly NOK 1 billion. It's 15 times as much as you'd save to drop the District Command in Trondheim. It's a salary increase of 1 pst. above the average in the country. Only the transfer of the 335 Quadron to the Back could cost hundreds of millions. kr. One of the most important things is a government and a government council has responsibility is control of costs in the country. In this respect, the Council of State can guarantee that it has control over the costs associated with, for example: the conditions mentioned here?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e919	It is right, as the representative of Marit Arnstad says, that defence has a cost-related challenge, in particular operating costs, and in particular wage-related operating costs. For this reason, the Ministry of Defence has also provided information on issues raised by the Committee, for example: that there are more than 1000 pay codes in the Defence. It is only cost-effective to fill in 1000 wage codes, but it is also an expression that one has negotiated to a set of supplements and special schemes that are not appropriate in today's situation. I am therefore very pleased with the very clear observation the Committee has made that this system needs to be revised and amended, and almost given an order to the Defence to do just that. As for the frigates, I'm less concerned, because the cost increase that has been from 12 billion to 16 billion is not a cost increase, but a consequence that implementation costs have been included. We've got Link-16, and we've got a lot of other things that Stortinget has approved. But the most important thing is what I mentioned first. We take that challenge, and we are pleased with the clear support of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e928	Neither the Council of State nor the representative Hernæs mentioned the Eastern Bolärne, which has become a hot potato in Norwegian policy for the past few weeks. The matter has several sides and points of view, some more unexpected than others. Yesterday, the self-employed turbocapitalist Trygve Hegnar went out in his own newspaper and said that the Eastern Islands should not have been sold to private people. But it doesn't seem to affect the Council of States, which repeats that you have to sell at market price. I would like to ask the Council of State if she thinks it is a paradox that she insists on market prices on coast pearls, while the Minister of Industry sells SND Invest at a price that is so low and controversial that the Enlarged Council's control committee deals with the matter. Is this good right policy? Is this the right thing that means you're going to get the most back for the money?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e935	If there is something this council is concerned about in relation to the Farmers, there is access for people most and boaters. There's 45 islands out there. I was there myself, watching them on Tuesday. I have sailed past there many times, and every time I have sailed past, I have irritated myself over these signs where access is prohibited, bathing forbidden, mooring prohibited, military area. What happens now is that in the agreement that Defence Buildings have negotiated, we have taken 44 of these islands and made them 100 pst. made available to the public. The last island we have also made available to the public through regulatory provisions and contractual arrangements, and we have made the ports available to the public. Then we are left with a few buildings in the middle of the last island, and it is a course and conference centre. There are buildings that have to be maintained and there are buildings that it will cost to own. Therefore, no public agency that has the right to do so wanted to take them over at the rate. Therefore, it is sold at market price. Should this entire area have been sold at market prices, 2 600 targets in the middle of the archipelago, this minister had had much more than 26.5 million. kr to walk with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e942	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e945	Modernising the defence should and should lead to something positive and better than what you have, in terms of budget, framework and opportunities. If the outcome of today's debate and vote only leads to positive decisions on military matters, the Progress Party raises a small question mark. The question is whether it's right to forget what works well, just to do things differently and in a new way, and to move business from one place to another. Unfortunately, there are not a few places where the defense has invested millions, then to move or shut down the business. You've even closed the same day you've opened. You have e.g. moved a workshop to a new location, modernised for nearly 80 million. kr, opened and a few days later assessed whether the establishment should be moved to Troms, Bergen or stay where it is. Such decisions damage the defense. It creates frustration among employees, both civil and military, and their families, and it creates negative attitudes among people most in terms of defence, the role of defence and money consumption. Some have said to me, let the defense get 5 billion dollars less per. years for some years, so that they get better at spending the money. I'm afraid that more people think like that. Therefore, the procedures and decisions of the defence and the decisions of the politicians must be very carefully considered. Of many things that occupy me in St. Prp. No For example, 42. The further role of Home Protection in Defence. From being a strength of 83,000 people, it now amounts to up to 50,000. It is said that you should have 33,000 in a so-called reserve in addition, without weapons and training, but that is rolled and given equipment to compensate for the reduction. Of all the feedback I've received about Homeland Protection, no one -- I repeat no one -- sees the need or the rightness to spend money or resources on this at all. They want to remove the proposal for this so-called reserve. Untrained crews are irrelevant to the mission of Homeland Protection, and this disposal is irrelevant to both defence and defence. The Progress Party is also sceptical about dividing the 50,000 HV soldiers into different categories, such as up to 5,000 men in effort forces, 25 000 in reinforcement forces and 20 000 in follow-up forces. In particular, the 5,000 men in the effort forces will be hard to realise. Investment is one thing. These include: have night-watches and bulletproof vests, etc. I have registered that a fully equipped soldier could cost 220,000 kroner. With such a small increase in investment in Home Protection equipment, this will be hard on the budget. Another and more difficult problem is how society can release so many men so many days a year to this type of training. The progress party records that HV-016 - The defense's tweezers, I'd say - have trouble getting hold of enough people. HV-016, which was established in 1987, has today been developed to become the Defence's sharpest mobilization department. It is specially trained and equipped to prevent actions against important persons and has other functions that are essential for the defence sector in Norway in terms of the new threat to the country. The Progress Party is also sceptical of the proposed reduction in the number of Homeland Districts, from today's 18 to the proposed 13. This will create for large districts, both in size and number of men. The Progress Party is afraid that local knowledge, proximity, rapid mobilization and not least the possibility of rational operation will be impaired. It is possible that you can save a few dollars, but the military and not least the peculiarity and belonging of the Home Protection system for the individual man could be greatly weakened, which will result in a worse output. Let there be no doubt that the Progress Party wants a quality reform of the Heimevernet. We want 70,000 men, all of whom have their jobs and not least the opportunity to solve them. The Progress Party, with its proposals for defence budgets, wants to strengthen training, buy/realise new/new day-to-day equipment and motivate and train the soldiers. The Progress Party wants to give Home Protection predictability in this regard, as well as a budget that gives Home Protection freedom of action. No other defense gives so much defense for so little money.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e972	Now that, in principle, Norwegian defence is to be equally useful to international as to national tasks, it is easy to see the Government’s points when it proposes to impose the obligation to order international operations. In order for Norway to be able to participate in international tasks as nationally, Norwegian soldiers must of course also be able to do the same. To me, however, it seemed quite obvious that increasing the use of defence personnel for international tasks would have to go beyond the safeguards of the national security in Norway. In my view, the adoption of Norway’s national security must be the main task of the defence, and therefore the rules governing the defence personnel must essentially be designed with this as a starting point. The government has shown a willingness to send Norwegian soldiers to controversial operations, such as: in connection with the war in Iraq. However, it is not reasonable, in my view, to impose an obligation to participate in such operations, which will be the consequence if the Government's proposal is accepted. Operations like that in Iraq, there is a great deal of reason to believe that there will be a critical point of view, including among military personnel, which, in my view, only reinforces the argument that it must still be allowed to say no to participate in such operations. Recruitment to foreign services should continue to be mainly based on free will, as it is today. In that context, I think there is reason to note that there is already a limited right to order in today's Peace Service Act. These two factors must be sufficient to ensure that the level of personnel involved in international tasks is adequate. I also believe that the government is operating with a slightly reconstructed problem when she claims that the problem of today's system will be that in given situations we will be able to stand without enough soldiers to carry out tasks internationally. Firstly, this problem illustrates the full intent of the Government with its Norwegian defence, which is clearly that - at least for periods - it should be a fairly comprehensive number of Norwegian soldiers, ordered to carry out international tasks. It seemed therefore that the government might start a little at the wrong end. Perhaps it would have been more sensible first to explain how many Norwegian soldiers the Stortinget always find it reasonable to participate in operations internationally. But such a clarification has not been invited to do so. Instead, Stortinget is presented with a proposal that aims to support a development towards increased use of Norwegian soldiers in international operations, without, in my opinion, being distributed in a holistic and adequate manner when it comes to the scale, number, frequency, operation character, expected risk images for participating soldiers, etc. For example, we could. have included an assessment of why we almost do not have soldiers with blue helmets, but also have other types of jobs out there. I've been meaning to say a few words about anti-militaryism, because anti-militaryism has been a fanatical matter in labor movements since Tranmæl and Gerhardsen were military negotiators. There just came a dark yearbook - at least it's dark reading what the Swedish Peace Research Institute's yearbook says. Well, clear numbers show that we're using 11 pst. more weapons. And where is the gun bought path? Yes, it is quite clear in the richest countries. We see that of them approx. $1,000 billion goes to arms this year, it's in the richest countries the increase is. We also see that one of them is trying to sneak up on some of the crumbs that are being given assistance, approximately. $50 billion a year. Even in the OECD, in the DAC Committee, an attempt is being made to approve defence assistance money. This government has not stood for it; it is to be honored by the Government. I hope you'll hold on to that line, so that you don't get any defence aid. If we are to be able to see the poorest in the eye for the future, we must also dare to bet on civil acts against the conflicts that actually threaten the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e996	The members of the Defence Committee have agreed that the funds given to the Defence shall provide the best possible operational capability or, as has been said during the extensive hearings conducted by the Committee, that the modernisation of the Defence must focus on Norway’s defence needs. The president of the Norwegian Defence Association, Håkon Randal, stressed this during the hearings of the Committee. Randal said we have to focus on getting a defense that Norway needs, that's the most important thing. Then it gets up to the political powers to find out which defence Norway should and should have. In order to get the defence that Norway has launched, it is important that the potential for conversion and innovation is made a permanent part of the defence's operation and capacity. This means that the potential for transformation and conversion of the defence must be central. The current situation is such that we do not know what the future will bring. Therefore, we do not need to lock ourselves into a defence structure that is not flexible enough to be able to adapt to new targets. Operational needs must also prevail when the Stortinget is debating today the new long-term defence plan. Of course, the need for their defence will also be marked by the change that has taken place in security policy environments. The defence is a security policy instrument for Norwegian government powers. It is therefore natural for the defence to change when the security policy environment changes. This must also be reflected in the competence built up by the Defence Agency, as it is not certain that yesterday's knowledge is the solution of the future. That's why, as I see it, no way back. The modernisation of the defence that has begun must continue. The majority in the Committee refers to Innst. No 232 for 2001-2002. It was agreed that a dry dock should be built on Haakonsvern. This Decision is now being confirmed. This Decision includes, inter alia: essential for Haakons protection to be the complete maritime base needed by the Maritime Defence. Should Haakonsvern be a compact base, as the Maritime Defense itself wants, it is important that existing functions remain on the base to an extent large enough for the compact base to be compact. Such a compact marine base can also, and should, be included as an important part of the marine cluster on the West. There has been a great deal of concern about this matter of dock. Now it has to be clear that this dock is to be built, and then it will be up to the maintenance organisation itself to demonstrate that it is a posted first-choice candidate when the Maritime Defense Department has carried out maintenance tasks related to the marine vessel. The proposition's proposal for more use of private actors also prompts a comment. The defence shall be capable of using private operators to perform certain tasks. But we should not forget that the public has a responsibility for the emergency response. It doesn't have the private players. There is therefore also a limit on what can be done by private individuals. Here a limit must be set, because if the task is first taken by private people, it is likely that the public will no longer hold the competence to perform the same task. It is therefore important that we think carefully before privatisation goes too far, and that we, as defence politicians, should not be afraid to take structural measures that lead to cuts in operating costs. Without such cuts, privatisation may force itself forward. It may go beyond readiness, and it is not a desired solution. This does not mean, of course, that we are going to miss out on assignments that the Norwegian industry can get as a result of investments in the Defence. This is something we will discuss in one matter later today, so I choose to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1017	The Barents region is an area of great potential. The region is rich in resources, the population has a high level of competence - both in Norway and Russia - and, not least, today there is one of the world's calm and stable regions. Russia’s security challenges are not in the Barents region, they lie in the regions of the south. This is a good starting point for constructive cooperation with Russia in the northern regions. Nevertheless, there are a number of challenges in the region, such as: in relation to the threat to the environment and the problem of AIDS. In addition, the border between Finnmark and North-West Russia is a deep gap in the level of population prosperity. The resource base in the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea is in strong development, where both fisheries and oil/gas will play an even more important role in the future and become more important as national industries. These are resources that are an essential part of national wealth and where, as a coastal State, Norway has administrative responsibilities and responsibilities to ensure compliance with regulatory arrangements and regulations. Although a range of conditions are conducive to future growth and well-being, a crisis-like scenario with regional instability must be taken into account. It is therefore important that relevant tools for crisis management exist in our northern regions. The changes in the defense are absolutely necessary. This has resulted in a quantitative reduction in defence in Northern Norway as well. This has also led some pessimists to say that it is no longer a defence in the north and in the north. This isn't right. In Bodø we have Landsdelskommando North Norway. It is now being cultivated as a forward-looking crisis management command for the northern regions. On Andøya we have the Orion planes. In Blackland, the Coast Guard is holding up. In Ramsund, we have the Marine Hunters. In Harstad, we have the Coastal Chechens and the Allied Training Center. And in Inner Troms we have 6th division. In addition, we have 339 squadron and 337 squadron, which the Storting will adopt today will remain at Bardufoss. In Sørreisa lies the CRC Sørreisa, which is responsible for controlling and monitoring airspace in North Norway. Last, but not least, we have the border guard in Kirkenes. And -- I had almost said -- all this accompanied by the Defence Music Corps in Harstad. There are some actors in the defence debate who want us not to participate in operations abroad - the representative Jacobsen is such a prominent actor. The same voices want to increase the volume of traditional mobilization departments according to the model of the Cold War. This temptation to seek greater volume at the expense of quality and ability to operate with allies must be avoided. If we listen to these, we will create a defense, and not least an army, which will not be relevant to our national challenges, and we will create a defense that will give us reduced influence on the day we need our allies with us. We must be prepared for the situation if greater allied forces need to be deployed with us. It is then essential that our small forces have personnel, materials and procedures that work effectively with our allies. The credibility of our allies is the key to a real, practical and concrete influence over the operations, which in an imaginary situation unfolds within our borders. It is my claim that participation in operations abroad is a direct investment in our national defence. Foreign operations are helping to create a more mobile and flexible defence, which can face new threats, primarily at home here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1045	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1048	The defence compromises have resulted in Eggemoen clay, Hvalsmoen clay and Helgelandsmoen being adopted in 2001. These are located in the Ringeriks region. As a result, 500 jobs disappeared, and many unemployed people have lost their jobs. After this, the Staten Kartsverk has been restructured, and the Vipps disappeared 160 jobs to - this is also the case in the Ringeriksregion. In fact, some of these have got a new job in the new thing light unit, but still. Today, the Storting is laying down additional jobs in the same area. HV-06 on the Eggemo will be gone - dozens of jobs will be gone from this region, as well as all the others. In less than three years, nearly 700 state jobs have disappeared from one district. I would say that no other region in Norway has been hit so hard by the changes of the Defence Agency. And what's worse is, no other region has got so little back from the state to convert the region to tackle the decline of so many jobs. It's a shame, I think. There haven't been a lot of torches and demonstrations yet, but it's maybe time we started doing it in my district, too, because that's maybe what can win. I noticed that SV has proposed in proposal No. 28 that the HV-06 with the loss of the district of the Eggemo is maintained. I agree. What official organisations at HV-06 and HV-04 and the municipalities of Ringerike, Jevnaker and Hole believe is the best option is to divide HV-05's crib between HV-04 and HV-06. Then one will follow the police districts as cadavers, and one would get a headquarters at Kongsvinger Fortress. We could have got a re-establishment of the headquarters of the rehearsal camp on the Eggemo at SATSør - the large satellite station on the Eggemo - for today's HV-06. The location of the SATSERS also makes it impossible to dispose of the entire building mass on the Eggemo. So the same municipality that I live in falls in the middle of all of this. We would also have had a simplified plan and better cooperation. The solution that Stortinget will now choose for HV, that the new district with new district losses will be established in Kongsberg, I do not expect to cost one penny to create. I expect what's in the position that it should be "marginal adjustment costs" means almost zero. Everything else will, in my opinion, be wasted with public funds. And when one then has not had a single thought about how to apply compensatory measures to the Ringerix region, the whole handling of the future HV becomes a danger to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1063	The defence is undergoing extensive and necessary conversions. It also applies to support functions, such as the FLO. The overall aim is to have an effective defence for the security purposes of the Defence. But in addition, the defence has a major impact on jobs, housing and activities around the country. However, consideration for this latter must give way if it is contrary to the objective of an effective, rational defence. It can't be a protester, but I'm strongly responding to the agenda that the Government and the Ministry of Defence have been deflecting to shut down the business of the Principal arsenal of Hovemoen at Lillehammer. Neither in different propositions, messages, nor in response to questions asked by the Minister of Defence, has there been evidence of any gain by centralising the activities of the Gardermoen. The government has proposed and received support from the Committee in locating the Production Unit Land Cover to Gardermoen. A majority also supports separately the addition of the management of the production unit to Gardermoen. This seems strange, all the time existing main arsenal of Lillehammer, with its competence, its modern technological installations, its premises and its geographical location, can best meet the needs of Defence and FLO for cost-effective solutions. It is also strange when the Government has a strategy to move important supervision from the central Oslo area, while the Government will build up a well-functioning, effective arsenal on Lillehammer in favor of the Gardermoen area. At that time, the Committee has also taken the view that the main arsenal, Mr Hovemoen, and a unanimous committee stated in the vote: "The Committee stresses that FLO's warehouse at Hovemoen works well. the assumptions. It is one of the most modern of its kind, and has provided significant efficiency gains for the Defence. This type of efficiency is extremely important for the Defence and the principles applied by the Hovemoen should also be widely applied in other parts of the Defence, where appropriate. The Committee considers that the Hovemoen is maintained as a warehouse, to a size appropriate to the current defence." This shows that the government has not been given any assistance in bringing down the Hovemoen Head arsenal. The Mars Earth is the exact opposite. I assume that this then obliges the Government to maintain as much of the business on the main arsenal of Lillehammer as possible, thereby exploiting the technology, competence and workforce that is there. I also assume that when it is now decided to add the Production Unit Landwide to Gardermoen, this must be organised so that jobs, technology and activities under the Production Unit Landwide can also still physically lie on the main arsenal of Lillehammer, where it can be done in an appropriate way. This must be possible in the context of the organisation which is now to take place in the FLO.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1081	It is a great relief to be able to take the floor here in this defence debate and to note that a broad majority finally secures the military activity of Base Rygge in the foreseeable future. Just three years ago the situation looked quite different. With the Workers' Party in the government offices, we were suggested to add the Rygge Military Main Air Station to the so-called Møllbag, where almost everything that was of heavy military activity was to be terminated. With the Right in Government, this situation has turned almost completely on its head, from complete defeat to a central position in the Air Force and in the defense of South Norway. I mention: a Falconjet squadron, a transport plane squadron, the centre of Homeland Protection in Eastfold and Westfold, the rescue helicopter base and, in addition, the opening of civil traffic. In the vote, the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, say: "If civil aviation activities are to be carried on at Back, this must not be at the expense of the defence's needs." I feel the need to squeeze out that very wording, because civil aviation operations are going to be carried out on Rygge. It has also joined the majority of the Committee on Transport. That this should be at the expense of the defence needs, there is no need to worry about it. Let me therefore underline: A cooperation between the Defence and Back Civil Airport has been adopted and defined in cooperation agreements. The defence is very positive to a civil airport at Rygge, and sees the operational cooperation as a win-win situation. All operating costs on Back shall be allocated between the Defence and Back Civil Airport according to distribution keys laid down in central agreements between the Ministry of Transport v/Avinor and the Ministry of Defence. Investments in civil aviation shall be carried at 100 pst. by Rygge civil airport. The transfer of the transport aeroplanes and the air traffic involved on Rygge have been included and maintained in the noise calculations developed for Rygge in the context of civil aviation. And last, but not least, the traffic scene at Rygge is clarified in cooperation between Rygge Aviation Station and Rygge Civil Airport. Military traffic shall take priority, but there is no restriction or obstacle to the free movement of both civil and military traffic on the Back in the foreseeable future. In the 1980s, the defense had nearly 50,000 aircraft movements on Rygge every year. The defense has so far set a ceiling of approx. 48 000 movements of flights. Fully expanded, civil activity could take place at the lower edge of 20,000 of these. For information: Today, the defense has a maximum of approx. 4000-6000 flight movements alone. As I refer to this, there should be no reason whatsoever that some political circles that do not want civil traffic from Back, serve themselves with misinformation and deliberate misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1099	One of the points in this position concerns the new cooperation body for the development and acquisition of defence equipment within the EU and the former cooperation countries of WEAG. I take the floor because I think it is necessary in this majority position to say that Norway should work actively in the further process to safeguard Norwegian interests, to express what the countries of the Western Union and those participating in the main session of the Western Union are also concerned about, for this was one of the main issues that was discussed last week in Paris. In response to the annual report from the Council, it is expressed that when you take a lot of different issues into account, you end up with a recommendation. The first three recommendations focus on the interests of those countries that are currently members of WEAG but are not members of the EU. It is strongly expressed that it is important for these countries to continue to have the opportunity to participate in this material development cooperation in the future. I had the floor in that debate, and I underlined, of course, the Norwegian interests - not because we wanted to ask for something, but because we have something to participate in and contribute to. It was also replicated in relation to the trip that two of the Western Union committees, the Defence Committee and the Committee on Technology and Aerospace, had to Norway earlier in the spring, where all the good and forward-looking development potentials that lie in the advantage of the Norwegian industry were seen, not least in view of the Kongsberg industry. I therefore think it is important to stress it now, as this enters its crucial stage-- I think it's going to be decided one of the next days. It is nice to note that a country such as Norway in this context is considered an important contributor to a common defence and to the development of defence equipment in Europe. I would therefore just like to stress quite strongly what is in the setting, and say that we have played an important role. It is important that we participate and play such a role in the future, so that Norwegian industry can participate and compete and develop in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1115	Not long after the new Gardermoen air station was opened and put into service, the air defence management almost launches an attack, to use the jargon, to shut down the Gardermoen air station and move the transport planes to Back. It was argued for economic reasons, which was never made visible. It was a rematch after a rematch, and you've never got it done. Now it is argued from professional and operational considerations that moving the 335-square from Gardermoen to Rygge pays off. Today, air defence management gets what they want. The entire setting we are currently processing assumes that no new building will be built for the defence business, except for Rygge. This argument is not applicable here. So we have the most modern northern European airstation, tailored for transport aircraft. It shall be used for other purposes, and the transport aircraft shall be moved to Back, where investment in the hundred-remion class is required, and where the aeroplanes may be to be placed in plastic halls. Yes, I underline: the transport planes may have to be placed in plastic halls instead of being at a modern, newly built aviation station. There must be every reason to question the logic of this move. So a few words about the Defence Logistics Organization, the FLO, and the discussion about Kjeller and Kolsås. As a representative of Akershus, where both of these places are, I have to say that there are only bad arguments to localize FLO's management to Kolsås instead of Kjeller, except for economic arguments if the defense gets billions by selling land on Kjeller, aviation strip included. There must also be reason to put some question mark here. So we're talking about the oldest airport in the country. There have been workshops and defence activities there for a number of years. Can we imagine what surprises can come to mind here when we start messing up and digging up places like this? We have some experience from the airport development on the Gardermoen, from Bjørvika and from elsewhere, which is very demanding to deal with today's environmental requirements. I am pleased that the bulk of the population says that the sale of the properties at Kjeller should be reconsidered if it turns out through the regulatory work that the sales profit will be reduced. I emphasize that here I think someone each gets some surprises. Whoever thinks the defense gets billions by selling airstrips and other properties on Kjeller, I think I have to believe again. I am absolutely sure these are things that Stortinget is going to have more rounds with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1126	I have not found arguments of a material persuasive nature for the transfer of the 335-square drone from Gardermoen to Rygge. The operating pattern of the transport aeroplanes will always have an overweight of regular transport operations, which will be largely discontinued from the Gardermoen. Military operations, such as: evaluations, it is initially not appropriate to carry out on a home basis. It is intended to simulate a deployment and should therefore be carried out without ordinary access to the home base. The Gardermoen Aviation Station was established in 1996 in modern premises specifically adapted to the operation of six transport aircraft and the supporting elements necessary for this operation. At the same time, the organisation was adapted to the new premises so that operations were considered to be nearly optimal. After a billion dollars in investments and a few years of operation, the signals are that the operation of the air station is neither optimal nor particularly well adapted to the purpose. I share the concern of many people about the short-termity of planning, or rather the lack of the same, in the defense and perhaps especially in the air defence. The customer base for the transport activity is located around the Gardermoen, and all cargo and personnel are transported via Oslo Airport Gardermoen. As a result, Gardermoen will always play a central role in transport operations. The investment costs of setting up Rygge are estimated in various investigations at between a quarter and a half billion kroner. There are no consequences of demands from local authorities. The uncertainty surrounding the future transport solution is an absolute factor in maintaining the 335-square at Gardermoen. The relocation of the transport aircraft must be economically motivated, as the entire conversion of the Defence was supposed to be. I find no clear arguments for moving in the information that is widely known. If there are other and unknown elements to be taken into account, these should have been included in the debate. The defence conversion processes shall be characterised by transparency. It is a fundamental prerequisite for maintaining the necessary confidence in the population. As regards the activities of the defense at Kjeller, I acknowledge that the requirements for conversion have consequences here as well. However, it would not be profitable to move the remaining maintenance of F-16, which takes place at Kjeller, during the period remaining until new fighter aircraft are phased in. New fighter aircraft must be phased in from 2015. Maintenance of F-16 on Gardermoen will generate new noise in the area related to engine testing. Such additional loading for the occupants of the Gardermoen can be avoided by maintaining the maintenance at Kjeller.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1141	Let me first say that there is respect for the job that the Workers' Party and the government parties have done by reaching a broad consensus on this important matter. An organisation that has been through a virtually constant transition over many years is now demanding the predictability that can be achieved. I believe that the majority has contributed to this. In such a case as this, location is very important, and I am pleased that the 337-square is to remain on Bardufoss, and that operation and maintenance will take place there. I am sure that this is now firm, after the clarifications given, at the latest in the debate here today. I am absolutely sure this is a right decision, for both professional and economic reasons. We know that the largest mission of the 337 Quadron is from Bardufoss and northwards, in a very important area. I will also refer to the cooperation that is already at Bardufoss, between the military and the civil aviation school. This is a very good example of Public Private Cooperation, which can now be further strengthened. I am also pleased that the Coastal Cheeral Command, which was established based on the Trondenes in Harstad, is now to be there. Harstad is an old and solid defence city with long traditions. With its proximity to Ramsund and Sortland, this is an important region of defence. The building mass on Trodenes is of relatively new date and must be suitable for further operations for the Defense. This must be right both economically and professionally. I see that there is a great deal of local consensus about this, both in the county and in the region. I noticed that there is also agreement to merge HV-15 and HV-16 and locate this to Bjerkvik. I have registered that today there has been a reaction from Troms, HV district 16, on this. Here it was claimed that the financial assessments made in this case are incorrect, and that there is now an extension of the Seermoen camp that has also taken into account the Home Security. I hope this has been evaluated. Otherwise, I have to ask that this be assessed afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1153	I do not need to extend the debate, but in the wake of the agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties, I need some clarifications. I record that it is not only I who need it, but also members of the Defence Committee and not least the relevant departments and some local environments. The first thing goes on the move of the coastal hunters. Governments had the starting point that they were to be moved to Olavsværm, but the government parties and the Workers' Party have as a firm exercise to stick their hands in the wheels of Olavsværm, and make sure that there is as little defence activity as possible there. It's just to register. The question is simply about the location of the boats that coastal hunters are to use, and especially winter time. I record that yesterday's Tromsø has an interview with Åge Konradsen in the Defence Committee, which answers the following to the question of where to station these vessels: "I certainly don't know where to put them, but it's left to the Maritime Defense to solve, and then I don't ignore the fact that there's going to be a dokka on the Olavsvärn." I ask the Council of State to clarify where these vessels are to be located, because it is quite important that coastal hunters actually have vessels to operate with, as they operate in coastal areas. That's a pretty straightforward way to get transported. Then turn to the 337 Quadron. It is stated that the day-to-day maintenance shall be carried out on the vessels. That's all right. But what about phase supervision? I'm thinking about the care taken when you've been 30 hours in the air, 60 hours in the air, or 90 hours in the air. Where is the overhaul to be carried out? What happens after the five-year period, when the guarantee expires? In other words, what do you do with future maintenance, and which maintenance partners do you intend to deal with? Or are you going to consider adding this to the open market, and not as it says in the proposition, that you're going to put a lead on the Sun? I also ask the Council of State to clarify how it intends to resolve the phase-in of the NH-90, and not least to clarify whether the operation of the 337 Quadron, which the government parties and the Workers' Party do not want to use, will lie on Bardufoss? I think these are important questions, which I expect the Council of State to clarify in an article a little later.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1171	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the head of the Defence Committee, Marit Nybakk, and to the government parties for the way in which negotiations have been lost in port. There's a lot of people with me. There has been no simple matter, as extensive as this has been. That's very good in the message. We in Northern Ireland are very pleased that HV-15 and HV-16 are located in Bjerkvik. We believe it was a right choice that the Alliert training centre north remains in Åsegarden in Harstad, that the Kisseger command is still located at Trodenes in Harstad, that the command is still located at Ramsund, and that the Air Protection Battalion in Bodø is still maintained. I also see it as positive that there has also been a clarification in relation to Reitan in Northern Ireland. In addition to that, I hope, based on the situation we now have especially on the workshop side, with heavy maintenance, that you become a watchman here, so that you can handle this situation in a neat and good way. There has been some uncertainty in the defence in relation to it. But after I heard the opening talk to the head of the defense committee, Marit Nybakk, this morning, at least I'm calm, and it'll probably be the rest of the troops later. These are important issues for the workshop industry. I also think that a very good craft has been done in terms of a strategic effort in relation to the Defence in the Nordic countries and in North Norway. I want to express today that I am very happy about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1182	There were a few things I thought I would get into, which I didn't get into the previous post. This concerns the organisation of ICT activities in the new material division of the Defence Logistics Organisation. FLO/ICT delivers secure communication and support systems to the Defence both nationally and internationally, to NATO, E-jesten, the Prime Minister's Office, the Government, etc. - to many instances. This activity produces and provides important ICT services that we use in the management and management of vital societal functions, and these services and systems must be resistant to today’s threat and terror. In recent years, ICT activities have been halved, and the remaining resources need to be organised to bring them together and steer them against the challenges we face. If not, we have lost in relation to national security needs. It is therefore proposed by a minority, as a prerequisite for the ICT activity in the FLO/M, that it should be organised with one professional management in order to maintain the whole ICT value chain. Then I thought I would say a few words about the sale of property from the Defense. In recent times, there has been a debate on the Eastern Islands, and I would just like to point out the comments made by the majority in the Committee on Budgets. S. No 7 for 2002-2003: "The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Advance Party, will indicate that the Government can transfer properties, buildings and installations which the Defence no longer needs to municipalities or to superior defence personnel in connection with the exploitation of establishments for business development. The transfer may be made free of charge or reduced in remuneration where appropriate. The plural will refer to the Innst. [[2000-2001]] S. No 342 and believes that this will apply to some few heavily burdened communities." I would like to point out that the consideration of the general public in areas with a high scarcity of accessible areas for outdoors, such as in the coastal zone or near population concentrations, suggests that such types of property, which are to be disposed of from the defence, should be transferred to public operators in accordance with the same principles as have previously been applied in heavily underprivileged communities. This should also apply to the Eastern Islands. In the opinion of the SV, such properties should remain in public ownership, so that they can also be developed for the benefit of the public and not only through the right of movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1200	A short time ago I talked to a friend about how his brother was doing. The brother is a fighter pilot in Defense. He explained that his brother had a hunting mission over Afghanistan, that he flew there. I asked how it felt. Then he says that his brother had told him a little about it. He flew so loudly and got reported coordinates, so when he dropped the bombs, he initially never knew where the bombs hit. The flight took a long time-- it could take 12 hours, it could take 16 hours. He had a bucket in the plane, where he made his needs, and a bottle he struck the lens on. So one day he got a job when he flew. Instead of being given coordinates as usual, he heard over the headset about American troops stuck in a passport. He heard there was a fight going on, and they shouted for escorts. This time it wasn't just about releasing bombs, but it was also about hearing the effects of the bombs. He heard the howls when the bombs hit, and he heard the Americans shout: Thank God, He is with us! He realized that the bombs he had dropped had hit the target, and what he also realized, was that the goal was not cardboard figures in Halkavarra or elsewhere in Norway. There were people who were killed, and they were killed where the Americans were. He didn't know who these people were. When he came back, he began to think through the job he had. Is this what I want? Is that why I have trained as a fighter pilot? Am I comfortable with the role I play internationally? Is that why I took this job? What he says is that if he were to do something similar in Iraq, he would have to ask himself, would I? Do I want to do that if I'm commanded to do it? I don't think I will. The debate today is not marked by the fact that Norway is at war, as we are well aware. We're in a war where the bombs dropped by Norwegian pilots kill people on the ground without the pilots knowing who they're killing. The debate is marked by the question of whether the Gardermoen or Rygge should have an air station, or whether troops should be here or there. It's a debate that's worth a little bit. When we are in a war, we must also take into account the seriousness of that war, and not talk as if we are in a peace situation and will prevent actions in the future that do not take place today. It is clear that if during World War II the same thing was experienced in relation to actions affecting the Norwegian population, we would wonder at countries that took part in those actions and that did not really take what they were actually involved in. I'm surprised when you're going to think in the long term about purchases in Norway, that you're not going through that reality, you're going to discuss what kind of premises it's going to be bought in, where they're going to be put in, whether it's going to help the United Nations, or if it's going to help a strategy that actually involves Norway's continuing to engage in war.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1217	In a letter to the Defence Committee, the Landsorganisation in Norway writes the following: “LO, like the NHO/NFL, is asking that decisions be taken in relation to the treatment of the proposition that a prerequisite for the acquisition of new fighter aircraft is that the Norwegian defence and defence-related industry be honoured with missions which, to the extent and technology level, correspond to the content of the fighter aircraft acquisition.” [[Norwegian Defence Deliveries]] The Central Party and the Procedural Party's proposal No. 14 sounds: "The Government is asking the Government to provide the basis for the acquisition of new fighter aircraft that the Norwegian defence industry and defence-related industry are to be met by missions which, to the extent and technology level, correspond to the content of the aircraft acquisition." I think it would be very alarming if it turned out that the Workers' Party is also voting against this proposal, i.e. a concrete follow-up to what is now wanted both on the employer's and employee's side to establish this. This is perhaps the only and last opportunity to inform Lockheed Martin and the US authorities that it is a prerequisite for Norway to be involved in both the development and production of parts of the JSF, in order to become a contract. We think it's already clear that those possibilities are gone. We've been kind of fooled. There's been an empty talk! All signals are given. It is clear that you probably smile well at the strong views both from Bjørn Hernæs, from the Council of State and especially from Marit Nybakk, because there is no power behind the words. It's words without real content, unless you remember to make some concrete decisions that you can deal with. We are ready to draw the conclusion already now. I would like to hear from the Council of State why she thinks there is going to be some change here, when so far nothing has happened despite the fact that there have been a lot of statements from the Norwegian authorities. I would also refer to page 4 of today's Evening Post, a report on a major offer in seven points of a European transport plane. I would like to ask the Council of State: Is the report of the Evening Post correct? Is there such an offer available in seven points mentioned in the Evening Item? Is it in that case the Government's position that you don't want this opportunity to go away? Here, there is an opportunity to contribute to getting better and faster transport aircraft than the rest of the upgrade system and to have relatively safe contracts to participate in the development and production of these aeroplanes, and that at the time those acquisitions are to take place, the alliance situation may also be different. The situation between Norway and the European countries may be different, and then you might have to think a little ahead. I hope for a positive response from the Council of State, that she will not allow this opportunity to go away without a very good reason in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1238	A short comment on the last article. I would refer to what I had before today, and also to the comments of the majority of the Committee, which are very much in line with the proposal put forward by the Progress Party, except that we do not wish to withdraw from this agreement now. Lockheed Martin has probably only understood in the last few weeks that in his time to conclude the agreement with the Americans was that Norwegian industry should be withdrawn. We give them the chance to put into practice the offers that have now been made, and we have a possible new crossroads at the autumn budgetary procedure. The agreement has been provisionally concluded with payment by the end of the year. That was really FLO I drew to say something about. The defence logistics organisation is a heavy and unbridled organisation. Through the process we have had in the committee, it has been found that the FLO management does not know how many employees are in the FLO. Of course, it is totally unacceptable, and it is necessary for the Ministry to ensure that they have control over and control over the part of the Defence that operates logistics. The Committee majority now advocates that the part of the FLO involved in material acquisitions should be separated from the FLO and established as a separate establishment, which is also not immaterial in relation to fighter aircraft and other material acquisitions. Indeed, it may be that negotiating with demanding suppliers should be located elsewhere than with those responsible for logistics, base and driving. So a couple of concrete things. The Committee has underlined the existence of the Hovemoen as stockpiles. Let me underline that. It was proposed to be closed. That also means that we don't want any move from the Hovemo. Of course, the FLO is to be built down, in the sense of having fewer employees, but it is a different matter than moving. Of course, the warehouse needs to be adapted to today's defence needs. Then I will refer to Marit Arnstad's line to the Council of State before today about uncontrolled operating costs, about wasting in the contribution to Bredvold and to my post when we dealt with the redispatch proposition last autumn. I refer to the Committee's request that budgetary discipline and accounting functions be brought into line with the financial regulations of the State, and that it be necessary to have control over the operational expenditure of the Defence Agency. We also need to limit the use of external consultants. Employees receiving so-called final packages shall not be re-rented as consultants at the same time. This is really wasted on its worst. The defence must be based on the existence of pay and operating systems and conditions of employment of other State bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1253	It's true, as Carl I. Hagen just said, that they actually have two proposals for the development of air purchases. They also have one with the Centre Party, but also their own proposal to conclude the agreement with the JSF. At least it won't be a mission to the Norwegian industry. Otherwise, Marit Arnstad asked me for advice in her main post today, on how the experience of cooperating on defence and security policy with what she claimed was Right's main political opponents, namely the Workers' Party. I think that is the basis for stressing that the Workers' Party has never been the main right-wing political opponent in defence, security and foreign policy. In fact, it has not been the Center Party, until they find that SV is the natural partner to participate in defence cooperation with. So SV has proposed to cut DKK 20 billion over the four-year period into a defence budget that is already no larger than it must be. They are totally opposed to any kind of cooperation in some of the bodies that are in favour of cooperation in our neighbourhoods. You talk loudly about the neighbourhoods, but to all the neighbouring countries that we have, either in NATO or in the EU or in both, SV no, and that's the preferred partner for the Central Party. Then I want to say a few more words about the debate that has been about repurchase. We have with respect not to report any aircraft yet. We have not been near the idea of deciding to buy them yet, either. So it might not be so strange that the very large contracts are not on the table. But in the case of the frigates - as there are also a couple of parties that have gone against, $20 billion is going to be the total - you have repurchase agreements at the crown of the Norwegian defence industry. I think it's worth taking with me to, for example. Kongsberg and Raufoss. So it is natural that many at the end of such a debate need to send what is called a greeting home. I would like to remind you that during this period we are doing a conversion of the defence that concerns 5,000 people, 2 billion kroner and 2 million m2 of building mass. It is in the nature of the matter that it is completely impossible to carry out the greatest transformation ever in the public sector, without some pain. It hurts some people who thought they had a safe position, and it hurts districts who thought they had secure defense installations. It hurts many people at all when you're about to make such a big change. But as we know, the bulk of the population is of the definite opinion that this is necessary to get a defense that is adapted to the challenges of the future. There's something that makes most of us think that the burden like this is worth taking.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1264	I'm just going to try briefly to answer some questions that have been asked during the debate. One question from the representative of Korsberg was linked to the coastal hunters and where the vessels should be located. It has now been decided that the Coast Guard Command should have a main station in Harstad, but at the same time it is clear that it is the coastal hunters themselves who must have flexibility, because already today the coastal hunters move part of the year to Olavsverm, part of the year to Ramsund and part of the year to Harstad. It's just that the Coast Guards are a mobile device, which means that we also have to let them take that mobility further into the next period. But the unit's main location is Harstad, without it binding the boats to any special location. Here's the need to decide. As regards question No: two from the representative of Korsberg, it connects to the helicopters in Bardufoss. Today, Lynx, a member of the Coast Guard, is located in Bardufoss. According to the decision that is now being taken by a majority, we will have to, before the phase-in of the new helicopters, i.e.: by 2006, return to Stortinget with a concrete proposal to station in Bardufoss also by the new helicopters, with the premises in the suspension. But there we still have some time to work on the details. As for the questions from Carl I. Hagen, there was one question whether I personally believe that there will be a change in the opportunities of Norwegian industry compared to JSF. To that I will reply that I believe that both Lockheed Martin and Eurofighter and other players are fully aware that Norway is not going to buy any fighter aircraft where we are not getting a sufficiently good contract for our industry. It's like a premise at the bottom, no matter who we're dealing with. Then it is important to have the necessary contact with JSF. We have that in this case with regard to the development project, while having good and proper contact with Eurofighter. I had an excellent meeting with Eurofighter on Monday this week, where we talked about the operational needs. Just because industrial opportunities are in any case premises for purchase, it is important that we also spend time on operational needs and how we can cooperate logistically and operationally. The second question from Carl I. Hagen concerns the purchase of transport aircraft. There we have a dialogue with several potential suppliers. One of them is Airbus. We are not planning to buy new transport aircraft until early 2012. It is communicated in this setting, but that does not mean, of course, that we do not have good contact with the offers that have been made. We will unsubscribe to Stortinget already in St.prp. No 1 to the autumn how we relate to the offers we have received. So finally, the representative Nybakk asked me to give hope to the Lakselv community and the garrison in Porsanger. My answer will be that the best hope we can give them is already signaling great sympathy to take the thirteenth HV district of Garrison in Porsanger. I think that would be a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1279	That's State Councillor Carl I. Hagen. - No, not so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1282	I see that the president likes to train. Bjørn Hernæs talked about the conversion in Defense. [[Laughter]] I'll call it the downbuilding of the Defense. It does not help to hide realities with good rhetoric about adapting to new challenges. That's what this is about. It's quite right, as Hernæs says, that there won't be contracts to cancel the JSF agreement that we're proposing, but that's because we've given up. We've realized that if nothing happens, there's no way. We have given all the other parties a straw straw, namely to be able to vote in favour of a proposal that is in line with what the Norwegian Land Organisation has asked for, and which has also been asked by the Food and Agriculture Organization and the defence industry. We notice that Marit Nybakk says exactly the same thing now as she said when the defense committee was in Washington, and as she said when they came home from Washington. It doesn't help to repeat this over and over again when no force or power is put behind it. Even Americans know differences in comments and a decision. A decision is binding on the Government. It is not the remarks and views of the pulpit. This is a blow on the face of both the Landsorganisation and the industry. When you talk about repurchases and supplies, that's not what this is about. It is about participating in research and development and gaining a transfer of competences and technology transfer. You don't get it at the time of delivery, you get it now. It is clear in the Evening Post, without the Council of State having confirmed it, that the offer to participate in the development is an offer valid out of this year. Then it is not useful to come back in 2010, because then the Norwegian industry probably no longer has the opportunity to deliver, because they do not have competence and are built-in. The industry itself says that F-16 was what made them get technology transfer and contracts, because then there was a clear demand from the then government to make sure that it was done. It is this opportunity that the Council of State should now take. With regard to the Airbus offer, I understand that others can also deliver. Hercules can continue-- the old plane that's soon disintegrating because it's over 30 years old. I should like to know what it is concretely to object to the offer that has now been made, if it is in accordance with what the Evening Post writes. What's wrong with the Government and the Storting giving a handshake to our industry and our skilled and technology-advanced jobs, which we're going to live on in the future? Is it a competing project where similar contracts are clear if Norway can commit? There can be no problem if we swap some of the huge number of billions we have, into technology and competence, and into some planes that are able to fly, instead of those that are 30 years old. There is a reallocation of wealth from one purpose to another. Why this detention unit from the Government and the Workers' Party, when they have the opportunity to secure skilled and technologically advanced jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1295	If there's such a difference between comments and suggestions, there's a lot of what's in this setting that the ministry isn't going to follow up. In addition, there is no Roman proposal to continue the agreement with Lockheed Martin, but we expect the ministry to follow it up anyway. So we're not going to decide what kind of fighter aircraft, or if we're going to buy new fighter planes at all, until 2008 at the earliest, maybe not until 2010. I guess we're not going to start buying them until 2015. There are several alternatives. It is, as far as I know, not by any parties taken any stand on what kind of aircraft to be purchased, with the possible exception of the Advance Party. We believe there are at least three alternatives: Joint Striker, Eurofighter and the Swedish JAS Gripen. I said earlier today that once the years have passed, and we see what operational needs we have, and what cooperation with which countries we have at that time, we also have to assess which fighter aircraft we are going to buy. So we now have these two development agreements - one is an industrial agreement with Eurofighter and the other is a development agreement with the JSF. I would like to emphasise again that I believe that the information we received - and others received, as it has been told me at least - now gives Lockheed Martin a new chance, also because the risk of leaving this agreement now is that there are no opportunities for industrial contracts. Then we just have to pick up the shelf product in 2015, and it is possible that that is what the Progress Party really wants. Now we really have to have ice in our stomachs and make sure that we work actively, evenly, to secure these industrial contracts. First, it's a development phase, and then, of course, it's the first stage of production. I think this is important. In addition, Carl I. Hagen and I are fully in agreement on repurchase, on industrial development, and in the case of the Norwegian defence industry as an important part of our preparedness, also because the defence industry gives us technological developments that are relevant to both the military and the civil sector. All of this is in the setting - by the way, it is possible that no Roman number decisions have been passed on each sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1305	Bjorn Hernæs has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1308	It's going to be very short, because it's quite true, as Marit Nybakk says, what we're talking about now is to continue the agreement on development with Lockheed Martin or not. Carl I. Hagen uses Norwegian business, NHO and LO as part of his reasoning, and he also refers to past technology transfer to Norwegian industry. The company that has participated most in this particular class, both in the maritime sector and in the air sector, is the Kongsberg Group, and Director Tom Gerhardsen has specifically told me that they recommend Norway to continue the agreement with Lockheed Martin. In other words, one of the most important groups in this collaboration clearly says that they want us to continue the agreement with Lockheed Martin, especially since we have negotiated a more favourable agreement over the next two years than we had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1313	Carl I. Hagen has also spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1316	Now I will not begin to quote from private conversations that are undocumentable, but I do not doubt that the Kongsberg Group has had that vision. What Marit Nybakk and Bjørn Hernæs fail to decide is that both the Landsorganisation and the NHO and the NFL, including the Kongsberg Group, ask that "in connection with the treatment of the proposition be made" - and that is what we have followed up. We have a proposal for a decision in Stortinget in accordance with what they are asking for, and if it is so that both the main speaker of the government parties and the spokesperson of the Workers' Party agree with this wish, why are they so much opposed to complying with this request from LO and NHO? Why can they not vote in favour of our proposal, No. 14, which is correct in words what LO and NHO have asked for? It's obvious that it's likely that they're voting against, and then it doesn't help when they talk here and later as if they're in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1321	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3135]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1337	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1346	The proposed adjustment reviews the progress of some investments within the Defence. The starting point for the approval of investment projects is the annual budget proposal, so today's adjustment must be seen as a supplement to the budget revenue. S. No 7 from last autumn. This option includes the approval of Tactical Data Link-16, a transitional contract related to maritime target missiles and information on the progress of the frigate project and some other issues. A unanimous committee is in place to give the necessary powers to invest in excess of DKK 1 billion for the introduction of the so-called Tactical Data Link-16 in the Defence. Decisions on the acquisition of Link-16 were taken in connection with the budget last autumn and Link-16 is an information system to ensure that Norwegian defence units can operate with allies. The project is now quality-secured, as previously requested by Stortinget. However, there is still a significant economic risk associated with the project and the Committee therefore asks to be kept informed about the further development of costs. The size still approves a transitional contract for the development of new sea target missiles. This is time-critical in the sense that these are to be phased in on the new frigates and that it is necessary to secure the project in relation to further delays. A unanimous committee is in favour of authorising the conclusion of such a transitional contract. However, the Committee is of the opinion that both the supplier’s and the defence’s interests must be actively pursued both in keeping with the timetable set and in avoiding new cost increases in the project. The Committee will follow very closely the further development of this project in terms of testing, costs and timing. The Fregatt project originally had a cost framework of 12 240 million. kr. Per. Today, the costs are adjusted to over 16 billion kroner. The Committee is concerned about the high cost risk of the frigate project and is concerned that adequate measures are needed to keep costs in check. The Committee also stresses the relationship with Norwegian industry and the importance of ensuring that both repurchases, partial deliveries, maintenance and research and development agreements benefit industry. The majority of the Committee has also noted that Izar, of which the Norwegian Contracting Party Bazán is currently part, has been convicted by the EU Commission for having received illegal yard subsidies. In this context, the majority point out that this is unfortunate, in the light of the history of the frigate contracts, where Norwegian shipyards also participated in the competition. What has happened in relation to Izar and former Bazán should therefore be a reminder to all of us in relation to subsequent discussions on contracts in which Norwegian industry is also competing. The centre party and SV have their own specific comment relating to the frigate purchase. We need to stress that our scepticism for this project has not diminished as costs increase. It is now possible that the project could cost more than NOK 20 billion. Together with operating costs of 800-900 million. kr annually is the amount that will somehow reduce the activities and activities of the Defence Agency in other areas. The centre party is generally concerned that too many resources in the defence are being tied up in costly material investments, which in turn will reduce the freedom of action in relation to other important tasks. We consider LINK-16 and the frigates an example of it, which in turn should be able to teach us something about dampening the zeal after investing in order to carry out other important operational tasks in the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1365	It is easy to talk about large sums when investing in military equipment. As the target image changes, it has to affect what kind of equipment it makes sense to obtain. This reflection makes itself active in matters that we now have to deal with. Norway needs to resolve its defence tasks in cooperation with natural partners. Investments must also reflect the cooperation and training of the different defence sectors in network-based operations, both nationally and internationally. Tactical Data Link-16 is such a example. Investments in Defence represent a great potential for Norwegian suppliers. Equipment must be developed, equipment manufactured and equipment sold. Both the research environment and production companies can benefit greatly from this. International cooperation should be entirely natural in this field. Norway is a small country with its own market that is small, same as what product it is about to sell. Therefore, there must be close cooperation with those of our allies with whom it is natural to cooperate. It's coverage to say that it's the great nations' defense that are the engine for the development of new technology for military purposes. It's hard for small nations like Norway to have technology development beyond narrow fields. This situation may lead to multi-national material cooperation, as cost developments involve several nations. There may be grounds for thinking that new forms of cooperation will push forward. Norway is now investing large amounts in new frigates, where it also needs to integrate and install Tactical Data Link-16. These investments, together with the implementation costs, are over 16 billion kroner. In the context of the implementation of projects on such a scale, it is important to have follow-up procedures and external quality assurance regimes in order to ensure that they do not exceed and delay progress. This also has a strong relevance to the development project of new maritime missiles, NSM. Completion has been delayed several times. This is alarming, given that both the frigate project and the MTB project depend on deliveries belonging to the missile system project. Although frigate construction takes place in Spain, this major project is a possibility for Norwegian enterprises through repurchase agreements. The defence industry is an important technological driver for both defence and civil society. Furthermore, the defence industry can create high-tech jobs in parts of the country that are otherwise economically weak. It is also time for technology development to be linked to military activity to be increasingly closely linked to technology for the civil market. This is not least related to developments in information technology, which on the one hand can help to generate this technology for a larger market and that it can lower production and development costs. In addition, in the case of high-tech defence systems, there is evidence that Norwegian defence equipment has a high potential when it comes to putting into service, for example. industrial design. It does not appear that other countries producing defence equipment have in particular industrial design as a development factor. Industrial design plays a more and more important role in the fight for contracts in the civil market. It might be an idea that the Norwegian defence was a conscious and demanding customer in this area too, to provide Norwegian suppliers with drag help to get ahead of the world market, not only in terms of technology but also in terms of design. Repurchase agreements are a very important instrument. It is a clear objective that Norwegian defence investment should benefit Norwegian industry through direct deliveries, partial deliveries, repurchase agreements and research and development contracts. There is strong competition in this field and it is important that tenderers in different industrial defence projects compete on equal terms. This is the government that needs to ensure quality in its procurement processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1395	St. pp. No 54 for 2003-2004 chapters. 1760 deals with certain investment projects. This has a background in past cases, such as St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, Conversion of the Defence during the period 2002-2005, and today's case, St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004, The further modernisation of defence in the period 2005-2008. In this way, the proposal is in order and the Committee is reasonably well put together in its comments. The Progress Party will only remind you that these are high-priced projects. We have registered that the projects are externally quality assured. This is good and should make sure everything is all right. Nevertheless, the Progress Party will point out that the framework needs to be maintained and that repurchases are made in accordance with the applicable establishment and implementation guidelines. Therefore, the Committee, including the Progress Party, wishes to be kept up-to-date on the cost evolution of the projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1402	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3139]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1418	St. pp. No 73 for 2003-2004 deals with changes in the regulatory framework for additions etc. to released compulsory ratings, applicable from 1 July 2004. Regulatory proposals are based on the mediation results between the State and the LO-State, the Central Federal State of the Professional Organisations, the Academics and the General Organisation of the Educational Groups from the national payroll. On the basis of the wage bill for government employees, primary compensation for compulsory personnel is recommended to be increased by 8.9 pst. Additional expenditure for 2004 is estimated at 23.4 million. kr, broken down by service supplements and corporal supplements, compensation supplements, dependants' allowances and, in particular, education and training bonuses - all of this in order to ensure that the compulsory crews and, where appropriate, their families have a reasonably good standard of living during the period of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1429	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3140]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1445	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1454	This case addresses the report from the Defence Ombudsman for 2003 and shows an activity in which the number of complaints procedures remains stable and where the proportion of those concerned also appears to be stable. This is good at a time when the employees of the Defence Force are experiencing a strong transition that involves a significant change in working life for many. The defence personnel management spends a very long time on the proceedings, both in defence personnel cases and when the Ombudsman is in contact. The defence itself admits that, in some cases, the duration of treatment is in breach of the Administrative Act. The Committee has, in its capacity as a body, decided that all processing of human resources shall take place within the framework of the applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions. This is essential, because a good relationship with employees is crucial, and in particular at a high pace of conversion. This, of course, also applies in relation to the subject of defence. The protection agency was recently reorganized. This has led to the handling of complaints in protective matters within the same body. The Committee has proposed the establishment of an overall appeal body to ensure that the data subject is aware of the independence of the review procedure. Of course, for many guardians, there are serious reasons why they choose to appeal against a decision, and it is important that the review procedure be perceived as genuine. I am therefore addressing this proposal. Furthermore, the Committee clearly states in its statement that the reorganisation of defence should not contribute to the weakening of soldiers’ welfare offers and that adult training should be maintained at a level that continues to make the scheme a real compensation for the year in which the first-time service is served. The system should also apply to contract orders and trainees, and the Committee recommends, as the Ombudsman himself has done, that further reductions in the allocation of adult training should be considered until adult training is given time to be converted, inter alia, by means of: other time to complete the necessary de-manning. As regards late injuries in international operations, the Committee considers it important that the defence pool its resources in this area in a national outpatient clinic which can also provide advice on legal and social issues. The Committee has asked for this work to be prioritised. The Committee would then clarify that in the case of compensation for mental sensitivities caused by service in international operations, an absolute time limit for the responsibility of the defence should not be set. The offer after the first emergency phase and until the civil health service assumes responsibility seems to be deficient and calls on the Government to assess the responsibilities between the Defence and the Civil Health Service and the measures that should be put in place to cover all phases for which the Defence is responsible. Finally, the Committee has noted that the Committee is now increasing its competence in relation to the conditions of those employed abroad in the Defence Service, and the Committee asks that the following should continue the practice of inspections to places where Norwegian forces or Norwegian personnel are involved in foreign missions. With this I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1475	The Workers' Party is well satisfied with the work presented in the Ombudsman's Name for the Swedish Defence Agency's report on the activities from 1 January to 31. of December 2003. This is also reflected in the unanimous position of the Defence Committee. When I still take the floor, it's to draw out a few points in the report. The Committee welcomes the fact that the conversion and downsizing of defence have not resulted in a particularly increasing number of complaints, but nevertheless considers it worrying that the Ombudsman’s computer systems are not up to date. Continuous updating of existing laws and regulations is the very basis of the Ombudsman’s work. Despite repeated reminders, this is per year. 26 March of this year not yet in order. Although these two matters may not have anything to do directly with each other, it is important that those who are set to control also have the tools to do their work. I hope the computer system per. the current date is up and going. We in the Workers' Party have also noticed that the treatment period for economic and social matters is long and that the recruitment of welfare officers is not good enough. This must be taken into account, as it has to do with the well-being of the soldiers. Adult training is important as a compensation element for performing the first time required by law. It is also important as a status-enhancing measure, as the Labour Party has pointed out on several occasions. With regard to international operations and the safety of exercises and operations, I agree with the Ombudsman that the defence must take effective and medically sound responsibility. I want to refer to the law on defense personnel, which we are going to deal with later today in Odelstinget. Here, the new Departmental Command and the new Defence Health Authority will have important tasks in terms of the security of our soldiers. With this in mind, on behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to support the unanimous vote and the proposal for a decision of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1490	The case rapporteur has had a good review of the case, but there are two areas mentioned in the setting that I choose to say a little about. Stress testing is a major challenge in international operations, and it is important that the individual soldier is closely followed up in this area. The Ombudsman’s defence subject is of the opinion that it has clear advantages, not least for those who have suffered psychological damage, that the defence pooles its resources in this field in a national outpatient clinic which can also provide advice on legal issues and on social security issues. The ability of staff to master their own health problems will be impaired by a lack of follow-up. The Christian People's Party is therefore concerned that further work is being done on the Ombudsman's proposal. For us, it is important to prevent and help individuals to deal with tough international missions. Good follow-up is also important while the staff are out. It is likely to cause minor aftereffects and sensitisation. It is important to facilitate a good health service. If the staff have problems, they should have the opportunity to talk to doctors and other health professionals who understand what they're talking about, and who have a greater chance of understanding what they're really struggling with, than us, who may have just worked in the health care system here at home. It will also give treatment greater strength, and the result will be better. Another important area for the Christian People's Party is adult education. A thorough and comprehensive review of adult training is important with a view to clarifying the target audience, objectives and financial framework. Adult training in Defence should be maintained at a level that continues to ensure that the adult training offer is perceived as a real compensation for the year in which the initial service is served. Adult training shall enhance the civil competence of protected ratings, contracted orders and now also of the departmental order. The offer should be meaningful for all these groups. In addition, the defence must take responsibility for providing personnel in international operations with civil competences that may be useful after their military involvement is over. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to look at the tasks for which adult training is to be responsible and to allocate money in relation to it. Today there is no balance. The money has not been spent on the wishes and needs that have been made. Today, it is not only those who are subject to protection who receive the offer. There's been more. That's why it's so important to look at the entire adult education piece and how we want to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1505	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3140]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1521	This case concerns the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the Regulation on the Statutes of European Cooperative Undertakings. The purpose of this Regulation is to facilitate the cross-border operation of cooperatives within the EEA territory. The implementation of the Regulation in Norwegian law makes it necessary to provide for a separate law on SCEs. This Regulation is supplemented by a Directive on the participation of workers in European cooperatives. In order to establish such SCEs, it is essential that the Directive is transposed into national law. The SPC has made a proposal for a law on cooperatives as a form of enterprise. It is important that a new law on Norwegian cooperatives and an SCE law be seen in the context. In particular, it is important to clarify that different provisions may apply to national cooperatives and SCEs. Finally, I would like to recommend to the Minister of Defence, it must be, because I do not see the Minister of Justice here, to proceed with this legislative work on our Norwegian national legislation in relation to cooperation, so that we can get that matter dealt with quickly here in Stortinget, and in the context of the law on SCEs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1536	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3140]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1553	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1563	The size of the case goes to voting on case No. 1-6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1570	A total of 30 proposals have been put forward during the debate. Proposals Nos. 1-29 has been included in the vote, while proposal No. 30 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. The President noted that proposal No. 17 has been misguided under proposals from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, while the right thing is that it belongs to proposals from the Progress Party and the Central Party. The proposals put forward are: the proposals No 1-7, by Per Ove Width on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 8-14 and 17, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, 15,16 and 18-20, from Kjetil Bjørklund on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 21-24, by Mr Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 25-28, by Mr Bjørklund, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 29, by Marit Arnstad, on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 30, from Steinar Bastisen on behalf of the Coastal Party Proposal No. 30, from the Coastal Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: "The Norwegian Coast Guard is maintained."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1613	Proposal No. 29, from the Center Party, is being taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: "The first-time home security service shall be a minimum of 100 operational days."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1626	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25-28, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 25 sounds: "The ISTAR device is not created." Proposal No. 26 sounds: "The story asks the government to terminate the construction of the frigate dock at Haakonsvern." Proposal No. 27 sounds: "The completed development projects relating to the purchase of new fighter aircraft are terminated. A broad study is being carried out on possible options for control of their airspace in the future." Proposal No. 28 sounds: The following changes to the geographical protection structure proposed by the Government are maintained: HV17, with a loss of district in Alta.HV10 with loss of district in Jölster is maintained.HV06 with loss of district in Eggemoen is maintained.HV04 with loss of district in Kongsvinger Fortress is maintained. District losses on the Dörningmoen are not maintained."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1673	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21-24, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: "The government asks the Government to conclude the current development agreement on the JSF and to justify this with the poor implementation of the development agreement." Proposal No. 22 sounds: "New transport aircraft to replace current C-130 fleet are acquired outside and in addition to the normal budget framework for defence." Proposal No. 23 sounds: "The Government is asking the Norwegian Government to ensure participation in projects for the development of new transport aircraft." Proposal No. 24 sounds: "The government is asking the government to continue today's war school and education course."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1705	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 16, 18, 19 and 20, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: "Decision on the closure of LDKS is delayed until an evaluation of the current command structure is available." Proposal No. 16 sounds: "The total ICT activity in the FLO/M is assumed to be organised under a single technical management body where the management of the total ICT value chain in the FLO is also ensured, so that security is ensured and delivery capability is strengthened." Proposal No 18 reads: "The government asks the government to investigate the extent and consequences of the planned future use in all Norwegian shooting areas, and to promote a case on this for the Storting in an appropriate way." Proposal No. 19 reads: "The government asked the government to investigate the use of Halkavarre shooting grounds, and the current consequences of increased use, and to promote a case on this for the Storting in an appropriate way." Proposal No. 20 sounds: "The FLO is located with shared divisional management on Kjeller and Kolsås respectively, as adopted in connection with St.prp. [[2003-2004]] No 12
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1742	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-14 and proposal No. 17, from the Progress Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1804	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-7, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1845	Can the President also make proposal No. 3 by itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1852	President! I ask for separate voting on proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1859	It'll be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1891	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote. The President shall provide guidance on how the respective parties are expected to vote in the course of the procedure, so that representatives shall not be intimidated by 28 Roman numerals with content that may be demanding for outsiders.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1908	Here, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1954	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e1992	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e2063	Here, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e2098	Here the Central Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e2136	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e2174	The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e2213	Here the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e2531	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr André Kvakkestad on behalf of the Party for Progress, sent by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 2 June 2004: "The ruling asks the Government to investigate mechanisms to better meet the victim's claims and secure compensation payments, in relation to claims where the basis for compensation is a criminal offence." [[Citizen’s legal requirements]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10.ana.ud1030e2553	There is no record.
