ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e26	Since this is the first meeting of the Stortinge in the new year, the President will take the opportunity to wish the representatives, the members of the Government, the staff of the Stortinge, the members of the press and all those who have their functions linked to the Storinge, a really good new year. The President assumes that no one will oppose this. The representatives André Kukkestad and Hill-Marta Solberg, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Ola Røtvej, has taken the seat. From the representative Synnøve Konglevoll an application has been submitted for maternity leave from 7 January and from the spring session of Stortinget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Knut Werner Hansen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e61	Knut Werner Hansen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e80	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Odd Einar Dørum State Council Victor D. Norman State Council Erna Solberg The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e99	I would like to ask the Mayor a question. On 27 November 2003, the Council of State stated to the Economic and Social Committee: ‘The EU enlargement is broadly positive both for the development of the welfare society and for the possibility of keeping enterprises in Norway. There is also too little talk about the importance of this extension for the welfare development of the east and security of Europe.’ So 1 May this year, ten new countries enter the EU. The Council of State and the Government have always said that this is problem-free and has refused to move towards requiring transitional arrangements. But now we're recording that a number of other countries are doing it, so my question is: Does the Government and the Council of State assess the situation differently today than they did on November 27, 2003?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e111	I believe that EU enlargement is positive. It is positive for the Member States that become members of the EU, it is positive for security in Europe, it is positive because we are going to have better and more stable development in the larger European Community, and it is positive for Norway. Enlargement is positive because our businesses are given market access and orderly conditions related to products and sales of products to a growing market, and it is positive because in the future we need labour for Norway. So it'll make it easier to fill some of the needs we'll get in the future. We've never underestimated that the greater mobility could cause any problems. This could lead to an increased competitive situation for Norwegian industry. That situation may arise. And we can solve it in two ways, either by being competitive enough in Norway to keep jobs here, or by having access to labour in Norway, so companies don't move out. It is part of the globalization that is taking place. In any case, we're going to have challenges in terms of the competitive edge. There are great prospects for EU enlargement, and I do not think we should forget this. Whether or not we can discuss this, and whether or not there may be any problems, we've been saying since last year that we're going into a work related to the question of whether or not the greater mobility, including the more mobility. in relation to labour, may put pressure on some of our welfare systems. We do that in two rounds. Firstly, we have identified the situation related to our welfare systems, and now we are working on the question of whether that monitoring implies that we should make changes to the criteria related to welfare schemes, or otherwise. This is a long-term challenge, which the transitional arrangements will not affect more than the short-term postponement of the problem. The issue of welfare schemes has nothing to do with the transitional arrangements. In any case, there will be a challenge to our welfare systems at the time that the transitional arrangements are no longer allowed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e122	I note that, at least in 2004, the Council of State focuses on the fact that there may also be negative consequences of the enlargement that is taking place, and I consider that to be positive. However, in contrast to its colleagues both in Sweden and in Denmark, what the state councils are doing again is already preparing for possible large-scale labour migration and pressure on welfare systems. Yesterday we registered in one of the largest newspapers in the country that cash support is one of these areas. We can also, of course, point to the day-to-day arrangements, the sickness benefit scheme, the child benefit scheme, the housing aid scheme and a whole series of other schemes in place in Norway, which will be immediately put under pressure if we have a large labour force immigration to Norway. Now it's not like you immediately get access to these schemes if you come to Norway, you have to get a job first. That is the situation, when the Council of State points out that there is no problem, that we can do this along the way, and it does not require transitional arrangements. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e131	The President must remember that there is 1 minute speaking time in the oral questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e134	Transitional arrangements are a postponement of the problems in that case; they do not eliminate the problems at all. That means that all of the discussions that we have to deal with about how we organise our welfare systems, we must in any case take at the time when we will not be allowed to have transitional arrangements. That's why we have a general discussion, which does not depend on what happens on 1 May, about how our welfare systems must be designed to be more robust, and the question of whether we should make any changes at all. So we can wonder a lot about how many will come after the opening. Most estimates made by both us and other countries indicate that there will be significantly fewer estimates than those made by other countries. Per Sandberg sometimes gives the impression of. Among other things, there has been a great deal of mobility already among some of those who want to move out and work in other countries. We come into a situation where we compete for the labour force with many other countries. That is why I am afraid that the dangers of people moving to Norway are considerably exaggerated in the political discussion we have today. But we're going to look at where we have arrangements that we might have to do something with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e141	There will be three follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e144	Of course, it is difficult to predict what the extent of labour immigration to Norway will be from the ten new EU countries after 1 May this year, but I believe that the Government deserves criticism in order to take too easily into account the extent and consequences of increased labour migration to Norway for the Norwegian labour market and our welfare systems. It is highly likely that labour immigration from the new EU countries, which thus have a much lower wage level than we do in Norway, will primarily lead to increased competition for the worst paid jobs we have in Norway. This may lead to unskilled and low-paid workers who are the first to note the consequences of free immigration from the new EU countries. Increasing unemployment among low-paid workers may be the result. Does the government at all see no concern about this issue? Is Norway really particularly worthy of the fact that it is probably those who have the worst paid jobs already, who are likely to have increased competition for the jobs of the new EU migrant workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e152	The President will recall that it is at all difficult to predict, especially about the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e155	Yeah, it's hard to predict. One of the things that all EU countries and the EU have now jointly done is to try to predict the influx. Denmark has, inter alia: analysed what they think the increased inflow will be. So their estimate means that under 2,000 more workers from these countries will come on average over the next 30 years. They're based on the same estimates we're based on. But then there's uncertainty about it. Some of the uncertainties are related to the question of what economic development will be like in the new Member States. So it could be that there's going to be a better development, and you're going to get a better job, and then you could get more of a kind of short-term job immigration. We know, among other things: the fact that the largest labour migration we have had from these countries, which is related to how we have regulated labour immigration, is linked to seasonal labour force. In fact, it may be more difficult for seasonal workers from these areas, or it may be easier. We don't know per. the date of issue. Now those who have been on seasonal work in Norway will have more opportunity to take short-term work elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e160	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e163	Of course, I share the opinion of the Council of State that EU enlargement has many positive effects. Governments state that the Government is involved in work on the effects of the enlarged labour market. There are now less than three months left until the enlarged labour market enters into force. When does the Council of State think it is time to conclude?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e170	We are in the final phase as to whether we are going to do something about the welfare systems and, if necessary, the timing. We have also delivered a big message, which is for treatment in Stortinget, where we have said that in principle we are not in favour of transitional arrangements. So we're going to look at developments in our neighboring country. Now it is that several of the countries around us have not concluded either. We're doing a preparatory work on what possible actions we're going to introduce. But it is very important to be aware that the only thing that is related to 1 May is whether or not we are going to introduce a national transitional regime. All the other questions are completely time-independent. It may also be natural to look at the experience of more open borders before, for example, decide whether to do something about welfare schemes. If it turns out that there is no particular pressure on welfare systems, we might have to make changes we really don't want, because we think it's going to be an abuse that might not come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e177	Heikki Holmås – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e180	The question we are now discussing concerns all three ministers sitting here. But since it is the municipal minister who has received the other questions, I will also address the question to her. This is how social dumping is taking place in Norway today. I myself have been with the foreign police on patrols and seen how people without legal residence who are in Norway work here on working conditions and for wages that are far below what we want and should accept. Many of these people will legally stay today, and there is no reason to believe that they will get any better work environment or better wages in the years to come. This is the basic question for the Council of State: Will the Council of State agree that all people working in Norway should have Norwegian pay and working conditions? And in that case, what will the Council of State do to change the legislation so that it does?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e189	The Minister of Labour and Administration and the Government have delivered a big message that outlines some of the measures that we are working on and that we have not concluded. But what we've done – and we've done that in the last three years in cooperation between the three state councils that are here – is to make sure that our supervisory bodies work together to combat black work. There has also been a lot more focus on revealing that kind of question, because there have been clear control signals that it is a priority area. It is a priority to work together to find out, among other things. persons with illegal residence, undeclared work and poor working conditions for persons in Norway. We're going to continue with that priority. We're going to work with control measures. Then there's a question of how far you're going to regulate. We have the right to publicise collective agreements, which are now being tested for the first time, which are one of the main measures relating to social dumping, which are concerned with the free movement of services, and then the Minister of Labour and Administration is working on the question of the powers of the Labour Inspectorate in relation to social work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e196	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e199	I allow myself to ask a question to the Council of State Norman. We're going into the new year with another increase in unemployment. It confirms that the fight against unemployment must continue with full strength. The working party has long warned of a situation in which the time off is fixed at a permanent higher level. I record that in an interview with the Business Administration of the day, the Director of the labour force is now warning that there is a clear danger that unemployment could be longer than what we saw at the end of the 1990s. The Labour Party then believes that it is important to rebuild bridges to the labour market for those who are unemployed, and we believe that labour market measures are one of the most important means of achieving this. That is why we also proposed 12 000 new action places for this year. We agreed to a significant increase in the first half of the year. Does the Council agree that there is a need for at least a corresponding increase in the second half of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e208	The government has said that it will assess on an ongoing basis what is a reasonable level of action. We will do that in addition to spring, and we will come back to this question in the revised national budget. I think it must be reasonable to assess the level of action in the light of developments in the labour market. Developments in the labour market over the last two to three months have shown that we are on the break, with a little movement up and a little movement down. The forecasts suggest that unemployment will fall beyond winter and spring. We will see how strong this decline will be in assessing the level of action to be taken in the future. But let me say at the same time that the statement by the Director of Labour about the danger that the unemployment could persist at a higher level than it was before the unemployment increased, when it goes down again, is comprehensively described in the labour market notification that we submitted just before Christmas, and where we are just sketching out the measures we have implemented and will continue to implement to prevent the unemployment breaking down at a high level. I fully share the concern of the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen that, in an upturn in the economy, there will now be no reduction in the unemployment rate to the level at which it was at before the increase in unemployment came. It's a problem we've had in the last 15-20 years, that every time we've had a stoppage, the next bottom is at a higher level than before. And the full report on structural policies in the labour market is precisely focused on measures to prevent us from experiencing what we have unfortunately experienced in previous governments this time when unemployment has fallen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e216	After all, I note that unemployment in previous governments has fallen to a lower level than the Director of Labour sees fit with the policy that is now being pursued. I also record that the Council of State in previous replies, including: in this type of context, it has been said that one of the reasons why he has been skeptical about using more labour market measures has been that unemployment has been particularly high in relation to those with higher education. Now I register that the Director of Labour says: ‘There has been almost an impression that unemployment particularly affects those with longer education, but that is not true. Nearly four out of five unemployed do not have post-secondary education. And almost 50 percent of them without a job are unskilled." Does the Council of State agree that this assessment is somewhat different from that previously expressed by the Council of State in the United States, that this reinforces the need for labour market measures which also contain qualifying measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e226	The representative Schjøtt-Pedersen has good memory, and I'll appeal to that memory here. It was at an early stage in the increase in unemployment that we pointed out that there were mainly high-educated people who went out on leave. As unemployment has continued to increase, and especially after the problems in industry have become manifest, unemployment has also increased sharply among unskilled people. And in this case, there has never been any disagreement about the description of reality between Aetat and the ministry. But the thing that has been the case all along is that the vast majority of the unemployed have quickly got back to work. In 2003, we had an inflow and an outflow of about 300,000 people through Aetat, and of those who became unemployed, 96 received Pst. job. This means that even during a period of high unemployment, there is closeness to the labour market and help to return quickly to work that produces results. The worst thing we can do for both skilled and unskilled people is park them on the sideline. And I think that's a lesson that we have to hold on to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e233	There will be four follow-up questions – first Signe Eye.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e236	I have an additional question to Norman. The unemployment rates are still rising, and it concerns the Workers' Party. New statistics show that the number of unskilled people in care and care is increasing most — there are positions of exposure and part-time jobs that are not being continued. It means worse services, especially in municipalities. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree that there is a connection between the local economy, that poor finances now lead to the local authorities resigning people who have had an involvement, a part-time job or who have been temporary workers, and that unemployment rates are increasing particularly in the group of unskilled people in the care sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e245	The picture of unemployment in December should be very careful to draw strong conclusions from. December is special for a year – there are many positions of engagement that expire in December and are then restored in January. This is something we see every year. What we think we're going to attach ourselves to as the main impression of the December numbers is that we're at a stage where the labour market is about to turn around, and then there are movements up and down. And then we're going to be very careful to draw general conclusions based on the evolution of a single month. On the first question, it is clear that, like all other aspects of the economy of different parts of the Norwegian economy, local economy is crucial for the development of the labour market. And it's clear that you could always get a little more jobs in the municipal sector with a better municipal economy. But the question we have to ask is how many jobs we would lose in other sectors if we were unable to pursue a sensible, comprehensive economic policy. In fact, I think that is the whole of economic policy – on which the Labour Party and the Government are fortunately agreed – that is crucial for the development of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e252	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e255	Some of the most worrying thing I think I've heard about the absence for a long time, I heard in a meeting with the 23 social leaders in Hedmark just before Christmas. They showed that very many of the new social clients in municipalities are unemployed youth. Most of them have dropped out of school and are unable to find any place within the county follow-up service. The world of work that has taken care of them and given them meaningful employment is not there. So they also told us that Aetat has little to offer when they're going to catch up with these kids. Does the Council of State see the immediate need for the Ministry of Local Affairs, responsible for the local economy, and the Ministry of Labour to sit down and create a larger package in relation to this youth group, which will probably be running without work for a very long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e262	The most important measure to enable unemployed young people to develop is that we have a labour market where there is demand for labour. It requires a reasonable, healthy economic development that is balanced, so that we not only get growth in the services sectors of the capital city area, but get a balanced development across the country. In order to achieve this, we first of all need to pursue a systematic and consistently responsible economic policy. Then we have to do something in addition to help groups that are particularly weak. I don't think I share the reality description that Andersen has of Aeta's work for young people. My impression is that the agency is doing a very good job trying to facilitate young jobseekers both to be active until the time they can get a job, and to have ongoing support from the department in looking for jobs. And the feedback we get from almost all over the country is that the establishment and the people of the establishment are doing a wholehearted and very good job for the unemployed youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e269	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e272	I record that the Council of State determines that the Government is following developments in the level of action places, carefully. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this is the case with action places and efforts where, among other things, a result of this. lack of industrial policy. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Government also following developments in relation to unemployment in terms of possible industrial, business, etc., when we see that only in 2003 we spent almost 11 billion kroner on the unemployed? Could it make sense that the government also considered using some of these billions to bet on, among other things. infrastructure, in order to reduce, where appropriate, increased unemployment or to reduce the unemployment in the process of growing steadily?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e279	It is clear that all aspects of economic policy are interrelated. It is also clear that if we could manage to take action that created more jobs, we would be able to free up considerable funds from daily allowances, etc. But I hope the representative Sandberg does not believe that we should now cut the support for the unemployed to spend money on roads, and in the meantime the unemployed starved. We need to find a way to provide both financial support for those who are currently in need of work, and to make room for the investments needed to develop the Norwegian economy. And everything needs to be adapted to a sound financial framework. I think that's what the representative Sandberg and I agree. The problem we're facing is that we have to help people in the situation they're actually in. And once we've gone by 100,000 unemployed, we have to make sure that they have an economy that allows them to actually look for work and concentrate on the job it is to be a jobseeker during the period of unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e289	Marit Arnstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e292	There are many of us who would think that one should not cut the allowance. However, it is clear that when the new age shows that the additional consumption of daily money in 2003 was DKK 3 billion, there is a signal that one here is in a severe imbalance with regard to unemployment issues. Then one must be able to ask the question of a government that has gone out and asked that an stimulate the demand of the economy through increased private consumption, unless such a government also sees the need to increase demand in the public sector – a public sector in which very many people are today afraid of their jobs, where many feel insecurity over future jobs, and where we see that there are many unresolved needs. This question must be addressed to the Minister of Labour, whether he does not see the need to increase public sector demand in order to resolve many specific needs, and also to get people back to work quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e299	I think there might be some consensus between Arnstad and the Government that there are a lot of areas in the public sector where we would like to spend more money and deploy more resources. But we also have to remember that when we actually have a development where there is significant growth in private purchasing power, it is not primarily because – I had almost said – most people have got better finances, but it is because the transfers of the state budget to private through all schemes, from day money to social security schemes, etc., are growing so strongly. And I hope the representative Arnstad doesn't think we should cut off the benefits of the insured, the pensioners or the unemployed to finance more road development or other priority public action. We must somehow get better transmission systems gradually, which can release funds for increased investment in infrastructure and other public actions, but we cannot do so in a way that makes the situation worse for those who are so unhappy to be insured today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e306	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e309	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. A lot of new settlements have now been created without an extra ear inserted to provide the new prisoners with schooling. A ragingly fresh Nordic report shows that as few as a quarter of the Nordic prisoner population, perhaps even fewer, have completed high school. In other words, most prisoners have sadly little schooling. There are many reasons for crime, but the Council of State should agree that lack of schooling increases the chances of someone becoming a criminal. On the SV side, we will therefore ask the following questions: how should people be able to trust that this government is doing what it can to combat crime, when it cuts into one of the best things that works best, namely the school offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e318	Then we'll know if the Council agrees with what he should agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e321	I expect that I will have the opportunity to answer that question. The question the representative raises has a basic attitude that I share, namely that education is absolutely essential for people to cope with in a normal life, and, of course, even if you get into criminal acts and have to deal with it. It is also true that it was not included in the budget and in the budgetary agreement that has been made, funds that fill up this purely ad hoc, as we have done before. That's why we have, among other things. in relation to Vardåsen prison, in order to ensure that those who come there and have the right to education, primary and secondary school will receive it, because we place them in such a place that they receive it. We've also committed ourselves to taking advantage of the cooperation we have with Aetat, in relation to the prison, which puts it all on the verge. Of course, we will also follow up on what has happened in a trade committee in the United Kingdom other than the Justice Committee, namely by looking at prison education as a whole. We have to review it, both in relation to who is being taught and in relation to how it works. After visiting 38 out of 41 Norwegian prisons, my general impression is that there is a lot of work being done on the teaching side. Many people make use of the offer, and the offer is varied. Some people are in favour of basic and secondary education; others have courses. It's not like everyone who's in jail has rights, many people come to other offers. I just want to take the initiative that we get a review of the teaching, and be absolutely sure that it works according to the purpose that the representative addresses, and that is – there is an attitude I share with her – the point of such teaching, also in Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e334	I thank you for your answer. That is in itself a good answer, but nevertheless I think it is sad that the Minister of Justice has such low ambitions in this area. The strategy that is now being adopted, I think, is reasonably unrealistic, and in any case, it's going to be a bad offer in total. Crime leads to great human suffering, which could often have been avoided. In addition, crime may cost as much as $100 billion per year. years. What makes the Minister of Justice think that the situation is getting better by sending even more prisoners out of prison, with even empty plastic bags, because that's actually what's going to happen this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e341	This is not a description of reality that I recognize in. First, some actual information. According to the figures we have from the county of Hordaland, the education department, which administers the school money, it is 55 pst. of today's student places covering secondary education, 11 pst. covers primary education and the rest is offered on different courses. Then we also have the arrangement that we have a comprehensive agreement with Aetat to supplement what goes on at different courses. We've just concluded it so that when you get out of prison, you won't get out of jail with a plastic bag. We focus on active cooperation between social services, labour market authorities and criminal services to ensure that people do not get out that way. Before Christmas, we have set up something that will be undertaken this year, namely six specific projects that are specifically about children and young people, in order to prevent them from entering into atoning, breaking a criminal career before it becomes so criminal that they must zone, and ensure that when they have to go into atoning, they do not return again. So we're actually doing a lot of this in a cooperation between relevant public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e350	There will be two follow-up questions – first Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e353	My supplementary question goes to the Minister of State. It is a goal that people who come out of prison should be able to cope with themselves through education, through adequate education, through education and employment after they leave prison, and security at the bottom. If you don't have the security at the bottom of having your own home to come back to when you get out of prison, you have big trouble getting to these other things that we're talking about. The last figures I have available show that about a third of the people who are homeless here in the country are people who live in institutions, including those who are in prison. It goes without saying that it's a little tricky to get on the show and get yourself an own home when you're in prison. The house bank has 100 million. NOK too little to cover this. Then is my question to the Council of State: Will the Council of State set as a goal to ensure that people who come out of prison will have access to a permanent dwelling and not a shelter?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e365	Cooperation between the prison services and the municipalities is one of the priority areas of the Residenceless Project. Many of the measures taken within the Housing Unemployment Project are just about to have apartments available, and for some people also a support device and offer, to people who come out of prison, precisely because we have looked at the holes that exist in the system. I myself have been in Stavanger and visited a woman collective established during this project, which had a spare cabin, which had actually been available for a long time, in an offer just waiting for one who was going out of prison, hoping to make sure that he did not end up in the street immediately and again on the road. There was a support device here, and the hope was to bring him back within a treatment system in order to get away from complicated contexts. That's why part of what we're working on within the Bostedslö project, is the transition between the institution and getting back within the normal offers. It shall take place within the framework of the municipalities. We can never introduce guarantees in this area, but it's actually a very priority area to get better coherence on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e376	Jan Arild Ellingsen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e379	In connection with the question to the Minister of Justice, let's start by hanging the bell on the cat in terms of liability. In fact, the reason why the situation is the same as it is in the justice sector is the lack of priority from the government parties and a budgetary settlement with the Labour Party, just so we can establish it first. The theme that No Marte Thorkildsen took up, I think is interesting. It is true that, in many contexts, the ministries have different interventions, including in terms of training in prisons. So there is the Ministry of the Church and the Ministry of Education who has professional responsibility, while you might say that the Ministry of Justice is in charge of the organization. On that occasion, I have wondered, and I ask the Minister of Justice, whether it would have been better to have a uniform ministerial responsibility overall, to avoid different priorities within the different disciplines and to get a more comprehensive approach to the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e388	I don't think that's right, because we've wanted to treat those who are in prison, the same way that the Norwegian people do. That is why what was a prison health service some time ago has changed to the fact that those who are in prison are covered by the usual health care, with the positive opportunities it has, and they lack it. It is also the case that earmarked funds go to municipalities that have specific challenges in this area, but they go to ordinary health services. The same should, in my view, also apply to education. But as I said in the previous answer to the representative of Thorkildsen, the teaching does not concern just the legal right you have to primary school and then to secondary education, it also applies to a number of courses. To make sure that the course offers cover several situations, we have agreed with Aetat, so that they also come in and can cover up a lot more of it. But the representative of Ellingsen is absolutely right that it is my responsibility as Minister of Justice that this should be satisfactory. It is my responsibility, and I get that responsibility for both the Government and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e395	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e398	My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. The centre party is busy with good local welfare provision. We are committed to a strong and offensive industrial policy to ensure a more dignified care, a good and free school and local cultural services. The Sem declaration aims at reducing the growth of public consumption than private consumption. The public part of GDP was early in the 1990s over 50 pst. Now he's on the other side of 40 pst. The corresponding figure for Denmark and Sweden is 50 pst. Will the Council of State take the initiative to reconsider the Sem declaration at this point, so that it can contribute to ensuring local welfare provision, help to ensure more security for people in everyday life instead of the security that many are currently experiencing in relation to supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e409	I think the only way to secure welfare in the future is to ensure that we have great growth in economic development in Norway, and that we are able to be competitive internationally. The balance between the public and private sectors is then important. The background to such an objective in the Sem Declaration, which is also the basis of the Right-wing Policy, is the need to take care of the growth power of the entire economy, so that we get more well-being. It's not the distribution between the public and private sectors that's crucial, that's how much we have to distribute. And the distribution between the private and public sectors has an impact on the future generation of growth. I therefore completely disagree with the fact that this prevents the development of public schemes. What hinders the development of public schemes in this country is whether we are unable to save competitive business and the foreign exchange income associated with it, which is our basis for future welfare schemes – it is primarily dependent on the economic growth we are going to have in Norway. Then it is also important to limit the growth of the public sector, so that it keeps pace and does not go faster than the one we have in the private sector. This, I think, is a fundamental distinction between the right and left sides of Norway, namely the understanding of what is the basis for creating economic growth. That distinction is going to be there, and I see no reason to renegotiate the Sem declaration in that area, because I see no reason to build up the Norwegian welfare society in the years to come, which would be a consequence of choosing anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e418	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e421	Fortunately, there are many good local solutions in many areas today. But it is also true that, unfortunately, many older people have reason to feel insecure in relation to supply. There are parents with disabled children who feel that society doesn't set up. Aftercare for drug addicts should be strengthened, as should mental health protection. In addition to this objective, which relates to the relationship between the private and public sectors, the government also has a target of additional 11 billion DKK in tax relief during 2005. It must mean a dramatic cut in public spending, and a dramatic cut in relation to local welfare. Once again, I want to encourage the Council of States to ensure a balance more on the line with what is the situation in our Nordic neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e430	In fact, several of the countries mentioned also implement tax reliefs in order to achieve a better balance and improve competition internationally. There has been a focus on this in almost all countries in Europe in order to achieve a better and more competitive economy, including: tax systems are one of the important aspects of this. Now it's like we've completed almost $20 billion in tax relief so far in this period. It actually helps us to have better well-being. It helps us to have an economic opportunity to solve new challenges in the future, because it helps Norwegian business to cope better with international competition. I assume that that's why it's almost a unanimous big thing – I think it was only SV who opposed it – went in to remove the investment tax, which is part of the package of tax reliefs, and a number of other measures that have contributed, precisely on the grounds that we need a better and more robust business life. It is not that tax relief means getting less money available. In the future, we will have more money available for welfare schemes, including in the public sector, because we are able to ensure that the framework conditions for Norwegian business become better.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e439	There will be three follow-up questions – first Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e443	In Norway, we have chosen to organise the school, health and care services sector in the public sector — mainly. It has contributed to a fair distribution, which is a very significant cause for Norway to be seen as one of the world’s best welfare societies. If you ask people most about their greatest needs, I think most people will show you the need for places in health and care, the need for childcare, etc., rather than the need for increased private consumption. Is it not then a little one-track just to discuss the size of the public sector without at the same time considering what it is actually doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e450	We do not discuss the size of the public sector. The public sector will grow in the years to come if we can generate growth in the Norwegian economy, if we can achieve better value creation. That means there's going to be more security for the jobs. It's going to give people more security in the private economy, and it's going to give a bigger public sector. But the proportion of the Norwegian economy used in the public sector is not the same as the size of the public sector. That's where I think it's a short ending on the left-hand side of Norway, which every time you talk about it, looks like a solid cake. So the pie has to get bigger. It has something to do with what economic policy you put up with. It also has something to do with the size of the public sector, because at the moment that the public sector eats most of one of the most limited resources we have, namely the labour force, it will also have a negative impact on business, or if the tax burden becomes too high, because then other countries will be more competitive in relation to business start-ups. Then we'll be back in the situation we were in at the beginning of last year, when the cost level in Norway was so high that many companies planned to move out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e455	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e458	It's interesting when the government council tells Meltveit Kleppa that it's an objective in itself to reduce the public sector. That's an interesting statement at a time when you have 4 pst. unemployed in Norway and over 100,000 people leave without a job. It is interesting at a time when the Minister of Finance stood before Christmas and said that private consumption would have to increase. At the same time, I believe that most people experience many unsolved needs in the public sector, not least those who voted for the Right in the 2001 elections and who hoped for a better school, with greater resources and better financial conditions. I have to repeat the question that was asked here earlier: from which parts of the public sector does the Government intend to take the 11 billion DKK in tax credits to be implemented before the 2005 elections in order to meet the 2001 election promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e465	We are going to present a budget at the time when the budget is due. We are not going to publish parts of the budget until the government has started working on it at all. It is not that it is an objective in itself to keep a low public sector. It is an objective in itself to maintain a balance between the private and public sectors, primarily because it is a means of achieving what we are committed to, namely to have a robust economy, with security for the people's economy, and to ensure not only the private well-being but also the public sector. I think it's amazing that the Central Party doesn't see that you actually need to have growth in an economy, and that the balance between the public and the private sector is very important for the extent to which we can maintain the growth capacity of our society. It's just a party that comes out of globalisation by believing that it doesn't exist as a framework condition, that can actually have that kind of economic policy. Globalisation lays down framework conditions that in fact require us to ensure that growth comes through having internationally competitive framework conditions in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e472	Karin Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e475	What will make us succeed or not to be competitive as a nation or as individuals? That's two things. One is the commitment to research and education. It is the responsibility of the public sector. The second is that when the labour force in periods is available, we are able to find a meaningful activity that strengthens competence, which does not make competence disappear every day. It is the responsibility of the public sector. Now we are lacking a commitment to school and education from this government, from bottom to top. We lack a commitment to research and education, and we lack a commitment to the most important resource we have, namely the labour force, because many remain unemployed for a long time without doing anything. What is the reason why the Municipal Councillor, who also has the key to solving some of this, does not ensure that people are allowed to have a meaningful job and do an important task, but instead the most important resource we have is the labour force?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e480	That's not right. In fact, we're focusing on research and development. We have implemented an action called SkattenFUNN, which has thus been more than significantly met in relation to what the Minister of Finance had hoped for, at least in relation to the original budgetary forecasts. So we've been trying to raise the Research Fund. We have increased the funds for research in the budget, precisely because we agree that investing in research and development is an essential part of securing our welfare base in the future. A country such as Norway, which – hopefully at least – will have to be competitive on low wages compared to those countries that really have low wages around it, will have to invest in innovation, competence and development. Actually, the government does. We invested in it in the first year we were in government, in the form of increased school hours. In the budget agreement now, the number of school hours has increased. We've been focusing on strategy and competence centres, on mathematics and real science, on a lot of what's about building up growth in education. It's not always just a matter of counting money. It's also a question of how to set things up. In fact, this government has moved this country further in relation to investing in education and skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e485	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e488	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Before Christmas, the Storting decided to give the municipalities $2 billion more in 2004 than the government proposed. It will in no way solve all the problems in the municipalities, but it will help. They receive more than a double income, and it will give older people more and better care and care, and children and young people will have better quality of training. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has made a number of negative comments that there will be more money for care and training for the elderly than the government proposed. I therefore ask the following questions: Does the Council of State think that the proposal put forward by the Government would give the municipalities a satisfactory economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e495	Firstly, I would like to say that I have not given any more negative comments that we spend more money on care for the elderly or at school. In an interview with Today's Business, I have stated that I am afraid that some municipalities can choose to step down the conversion programme because you get a larger income frame. We have received some signals that some municipalities have done so, because they feel that the need has not been as great. I think that's worrying, because the most important thing we can do next to providing the local government with a better economy is actually to make sure that the money we have is spent in the best possible way, just to get the most possible services out of it. There is still a potential in many municipalities, not least in cooperation between municipalities, to get more out of the money used by the local government sector. So I'm not negative that the local government sector has got more money in isolation. I've also said that three times earlier from Stortinget's pulpit that I'm not. But what I'm concerned about is that if we're going to give more money to the municipal sector, it has to happen within a sound financial framework. The budgetary agreement presented was within such a sound financial framework as to provide a number of cuts in other areas of the public sector, in order to allow for a stronger priority to be given to the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e503	I thank you for your answer. Solberg State Council has been negative that this year there will be more money for welfare measures in municipalities than the Government has proposed. In connection with this, I refer to the business life of today, including: have quoted the State Councils on the following statement: ‘The pressure on absolutely necessary changes may be reduced because more money has been given.’ Such and other negative statements are striking when we know how difficult the economy is in a lot of municipalities, and that one that builds up welfare measures. Governments have also stated that the Government is not in a position to follow up the municipal economy framework for recent years. My question to the Council of State is therefore: why does the Council of State not want Solberg to be a driver for the creation of better care for the elderly and better training in our municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e517	Every day, I'm pushing for better training and better care for the elderly. I just think it's also important to see if we can make better use of our resources in the public sector, for example. in cooperation between municipalities. What the representative is doing now is confirming that I have once stated that in relation to the modernisation programmes – which receive a lot of money – the pace in some municipalities is actually slowing down. I've seen some examples like this, which were the background for me to say it. It would rather put the representative's first post in relief rather than several of the negative comments that were then the starting point. I believe that there is a potential for getting more money back in the municipal sector. I find it strange that a party that has been involved in building up sub-financing of the municipal sector, as the Labour Party has done over several years, and as we see the results of now, has not even thought that it was possible to streamline the municipal sector, but now argues unilaterally for more money in the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e524	There will be three follow-up questions – first Signe Eye.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e527	Well over 100 municipalities are now on the Swedish Government's blacklist and are subject to state regulation. These municipalities lose a lot of their freedom of action, and there have hardly ever been so many municipalities that have been blacklisted, as it is now under the Bondevik II administration. This goes beyond the services that these municipalities can provide to their inhabitants. They've had to cut home help, cut support hours at school, it's a massive drop-out of schools, and it's cut in support hours for the disabled. When the Council of State now says that she is in favour of the municipalities getting more money, but still did not come up with it when the budget was presented, I have to ask: what is the strategy of the Minister of Local Councils to ensure that the citizens of the municipalities are given acceptable services?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e534	The 2004 government budget line represented the largest increase in the free income of the municipal sector that has been promoted in five years. It puts this in a special relief in view of the fact that this is the greatest increase made by a government of five years, and it is especially important to hear the Workers' Party's questions relating to the local economy when you have it as a background. It's true, as the representative says, there have never been so many municipalities in the so-called ROBEK list before. The list was established in 1999. In the past, all municipalities were subject to this control, which now only some are subject to, because the control system of the municipal sector was simplified. In the past, 435 municipalities were subject to strict control of how they used the money, but now only 100 have shown that they have not managed to get costs and revenues to relate, and that have control specifically related to the borrowing. In this way it is considerably fewer than it has been before, and it is a greater freedom for all the other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e541	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e544	There is something unreal about this announcement from the Council of State that it is every day driving a better local welfare provision when it rises above what the municipalities themselves say in relation to the possibilities for further efficiency. The same state council also says that it is a driver of local self-government. Over 80 pst. they have already been effective. People in the municipalities experience cut-offs on offer. What is it that makes the Council of State so sovereign rise above what is everyday life for most local populaces these days? What are the impressions of the state councils as citizens or local populace, or even parts of the Grand Council, in relation to the cuts being made in the local government sector today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e551	It is not that I do not believe that more money is needed in the local government sector. That is why, on the part of the Government, we proposed an increase of SEK 1.8 billion in free income for the municipal sector, in a fine relief to the SEK 200 million. In addition to the increase in free income proposed by the government of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, the Minister of Social Affairs proposed. This is one of the reasons why it is difficult in the municipal sector, namely that over several years there has not been enough free income but has chosen to commit funds to earmarked schemes. When I say that I work every day to get better services, it's because I work every day to give the local government a greater degree of freedom and less detail management. If there is something the efficiency networks have shown – 153 municipalities participated last year – it is that the link between quality of service and resource use varies enormously. It varies within each municipality, but it also varies widely between municipalities. When 250 municipalities registered in 2004 and want to participate in this work, it is because they believe that they have an efficiency potential and that they can get more money back. If not, I don't understand why they're participating.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e558	Per Sandberg – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e561	I would first like to say that it is a little interesting to note that it is the Workers' Party, which is a budgetary partner with the Government, who is now critical of the budget to the greatest extent, which they have therefore agreed to in the area of the local government. Then I must be allowed to say that I fully agree with the Council of State that with regard to the municipal sector as a whole, there is still a great potential for getting more out of the funds transferred. The big problem here is the income system itself that distributes some municipalities, and it is in such a situation that the Progress Party has seen to have to increase the framework of the municipal sector, because there are actually many municipalities that have taken all the steps that the council wants and that I want. So these are municipalities that have now come into a situation where they need to cut the welfare of the elderly, children, etc. My question to the Council of State is this: Isn't it also time to start focusing on structural changes and system changes in both the income system and the local government sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e570	We are working on structural changes related to the municipal sector in relation to the municipal structure itself. We have also entered into cooperation with the KS, where we are involved in financing a work in which we discuss the municipal structure in all parts of the country, because we believe that it is not least a challenge for local democracy that we have so many small municipalities, and because the Stortinget has tended to use it as an argument against allowing the local sector to have power and freedom to cooperate with many stakeholder organisations. So I would also like to say that we are working on the income system. We have reduced a range of income systems, and in the spring we come up with proposals to do something about income balancing, which is one area where there is a relatively large injustice. We also look at changes that will make the distribution fairer, so you have the same starting point for providing good services. Finally, let me say that I am not so surprised that the Labour Party criticises the budgetary agreement. This government has been accustomed to the budgetary partners who in the first week of January tend to criticise the budgets they have contributed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-07.ana.ud1365e580	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. Before we proceed to case no. 2, the President will draw attention to the fact that, in an accident at work, Norman was not given the floor to make any royal propositions at the opening of today's meeting. So the President will now give us the opportunity to do so.
