ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e28	The representative Anita Apelthun Seal, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e36	On behalf of Lodve Solholm, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Christopher Stensaker and myself, I would like to make a proposal to conduct electronic voting trials in selected schools at the 2005 school elections, with a view to implementing such electronic voting at the 2007 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e41	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e65	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Erna Solberg State Council Dagfinn Høybräten State Council Laila Davaøy The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e84	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs a question. It appeared in the revised national budget that only 6,900 new kindergartens were built last year – despite the fact that the Minister for Children and Family sent out a press release on 19 March, where she wrote that 10,308 new kindergartens were established in 2003. The Prime Minister has also repeatedly called for the establishment of record new kindergartens last year, in line with the adoption of the Stortinget. So we're going to experience that the number is 6,900, which is almost half of what the Greatness has set as the goal. This is quite dramatic, because it undermines the whole objective of the unanimous decision on the reform of kindergartens and the expansion of kindergartens. I think much of the reason for this is uncertainty, uncertainty in Barnehage-Norway and in the kindergarten sector. And then my question to the Minister for Children and Family is, what will she do to ensure that the expansion comes up at the level that Stortinget has adopted? Is she interested in the possible use of new tools to ensure this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e93	First a little bit about the numbers: it's built over 10,000 completely new kindergartens, but then it's also closed some kindergartens, so that the actual number is well 7,000 net. But in addition, 10,000 children have gone from part-time to full-time, so that we have had a large capacity increase. This would correspond to approx. 5,000 new kindergartens if they had been used by new children, so it has been a good development. We are now closely monitoring the development in 2004. What we're going to do now, too, is have better statistics over and over a year. We're going to get a full status of the number of kindergartens twice during the fall, the first time in August. We have also started work to identify possible plugs in the system at all levels, state, regional and local, as well as potential developers. When we see how the shoe presses – if it should – we have to assess whether there may be a need to change the device on some of our instruments. But there are today an incredible number of instruments that underpin the fact that building kindergartens has never been as beneficial as it is now. We give high investment grants. We have created our own website together with the House Bank, where you can see from a to see how to build kindergartens. We are fully financing all new kindergartens from the state. It is in a way now that the visit time for expansion is in place. I can mention Tromsø, Drammen, Trondheim and Bergen. There they are well in progress, approaching full coverage and have perfectly clear plans for this. So it seems to be happening a lot, especially in the municipalities, right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e102	What worries me is that the department is obviously not offensive. This reform is the Stortinget which has initiated and developed, against the wishes of the Ministry of Children and the Family. I have to say, this is defensive. 6 900 places are about half of the size of the population, and that council has assured the Stortinget that, at the latest in the budget last year, it would be built. Keeping a close eye on things is quite inadequate. I have to say that I have a small suspicion that the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and the Government really think it is nice that the expansion does not keep the pace it should, because step 2 of the introduction of the maximum tariff requires full coverage. It was the government's way of undermining the kindergarten settlement at last. It tried to get in this formulation, and it succeeded, in order to get a unanimous staging. If it really is that the department does not take seriously the expansion, we have a serious problem, because it is therefore a unanimous expansion that wants to expand. My challenge to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs is that it is not enough to follow closely. If we are to achieve the objectives of full coverage, we need to build more than 16 000 new sites in the future, and we need to do that by the end of 2005. That means that I hope that the Council of State now cooperates with the Stortinget in order to succeed in this large-scale initiative on kindergarten development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e111	I have to say that I am taking away from this kind of insinuation that the Council of State and the Government are not busy building enough kindergartens. We have a huge focus on the kindergarten sector. We're doing everything we can to make things right. We have never had such good arrangements before. The investment grant has never before been so high from any government. It's not the state that's building these places, but we're fully financing all the new places. This knows both private builders and municipalities. But it is quite clear that with such a great reform, when it comes to building so many places in such a short time, you may not get started at once. The kindergarten agreement was concluded in June last year, and it takes some time to see the results of the offensive effort agreed by the Stortinget and the Government. I can assure the representative that we want full child care coverage, and I actually think that we see the outlines that we should be able to do it within the time limit we have set.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e116	There will be four follow-up questions – first Eirin Fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e119	When Stortinget adopted the major kindergarten reform and kindergarten bet, the goal for all parties was that we should have more seats at a price that the parents could afford to pay. So first of all, what we see, as Mr. Øystein Djupedal was in there, is that there's a lot of doubt about whether we get that expansion, the number of spaces that we're all busy with. The next one is price. I have to ask the councillor to tell Stortinget what you've done. Because what we get the impression of, of all the phones that flow into us, is that there's a lot of confusion about what's really going on with the price level. In the municipalities, where there are major economic problems, there is great doubt that it is really possible to reduce prices to what the Storting has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e124	First I would say that several places at reasonable prices, but in particular several places, have been the main issues of the Government. The Storting knows that too, based on the debates we had when, for example. Negotiated. We have full attention to this. The ECON report, which we got back too soon, is based on what was built in 2003 – so you know what you built in 2003 – and it suggests that with today's price of NOK 2 750 you will need 16,300 places to get full coverage. We're going to build that in two years. It could be within range. You'll need 7 000 more places if you have a lower price. Then at a price. We see that the parental payment in most places is reduced to NOK 2 750. We're going to be very careful. We have already launched a survey, a systematic feedback via Norwegian Gallup. It will come mid-June. There are some entry problems in some places, but the vast majority of parents have already got this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e134	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e137	It is a bit polite to hear the council boasting so deeply of the Government's bet on kindergartens, when it is the Storting that has forced the Government to make this bet. But I actually thought – after getting a broad deal in Stortinget where all the parties were involved – that the government would follow this up. What is the situation, and which I think is the reason why uncertainty is created and fewer people choose to stick the spade in the ground to build new kindergartens, is that the government is constantly creating new uncertainties about the means. Now there is uncertainty as to whether the Government will implement step 2 at the maximum price. There has been uncertainty as to the extent to which the Government intends to implement full non-discrimination between public and private kindergartens. Repeated uncertainty simply leads to investment refusal, because you do not know which regime to deal with. Although the decision of the majority of population is never so firm, the Government must begin to communicate this in a much more constructive way. [[The President clubs.]] If not, the government must take responsibility for the slow development of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e142	The President would point out that in so far as questions are to be asked, there must be room for that within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e145	The size of the population has not forced the government to invest in kindergartens, but at the beginning of this kindergarten agreement there have been different opinions on how to set up measures and how to make this great effort in the kindergarten sector. I think it's a privilege to be the Council of State where one has such a great consensus about such a great reform. Then I also think the Stortinget should know, as we, who are responsible for the implementation, that it's going very quickly for the councils, private kindergartens and municipalities. It's enormously complicated and difficult to get all the pieces in place in such a big reform. But no other government has proposed as much money for the Storting as the Government has done in connection with this kindergarten reform. We're going to follow up the nursery arrangement in full. Now we're in the phase towards a fully equivalent treatment. The first step has been taken, and there will be a maximum price of NOK 2 750 in May this year – some municipalities need a little more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e150	Fewer new kindergartens were built for children under the age of three in 2003. There were 2850 small children's seats built, while the target number was 8 000 places. The government is therefore proposing to transfer SEK 193 million. NOK of the operating grant for cash support. This is dramatic for the grandchildren and gives little freedom of choice for this group of parents. In addition, cash support has been shown to be low-targeted and have more negative effects, including on the development of kindergartens. What new initiatives will the Council of State take to achieve the target for young children's places in 2004 and 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e155	It is quite right that there has been a much greater investment in municipalities and from private developers in large children's seats than in small children's seats. There is evidence that the need for the construction of childcare facilities is now greater. In some municipalities, we now see that large children's places are converted into small children's places because that's where the need is. I have answered the question, from the first questioner, by saying that we are following developments closely. We need to see if the instruments are the right ones in relation to the needs that lie there. With regard to the transfer from the kindergarten chapter to cash support, it is entirely in line with the Storting’s budgetary system, namely that what is not used in kindergartens, for example. by building new places, is transferred to cash support, as is the case elsewhere, if you build more kindergartens, you get less cash support. So this is a technical transmission that's been done all year long.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e162	Eli Sollied Practices – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e165	I note that the Council of State decided that the kindergarten reform is fully financed. But we don't get away from the fact that questions have been raised by both private and public kindergarten owners if that's the case. And then it's time to ask the question of this insecurity that is both private and public, may be the reason why we've reached only 6,900 places. So the government party when we debated the kindergarten agreement, said that for them was full kindergarten expansion, space for everyone, more important than max price, and we're going to reach full coverage before phase 2. My question to the Council of State is then: Will new grips be considered, for example: to increase the establishment rate, especially to young children's places, until phase 2?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e174	In such a major reform, we have to expect that some municipalities may need some more time, especially in order to calculate what to give to the individual private nursery according to the regulation on economically equivalent treatment, which is effective from 1 May this year. We have to have some understanding of that. At the same time, there is enough uncertainty in the sector – and I just have to be allowed to say it from this platform too – from one of the private organisations, PBL. They have now written letters to the municipalities where they want to influence them. They actually disagree with the nursery arrangement and this way we're following it up now. They want it to be equal to the addition of heads from the first day, from May 1st this year. Neither we nor Stortinget have added up to that, and we could not do that either. To the second question: we will follow developments closely, and possibly come back to new instruments. It's too early to say positive yes or no to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e181	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e184	I have a question for the Minister of Health. Many hospitals are now planning to weaken their offers to patients. In Sogn and Fjordane, people are reacting strongly to the comprehensive plans of the Health Guide. According to the Fädrelandsvenn, Southland Hospital should cut 210 years' worth of work. In Finnmark, big people's reactions are busy turning rings around their hospitals. This happens at the same time that the Government proposes to give a new 12 billion dollars in tax bills – mostly to those who have the most from before. Does the Minister of Health, who is also the leader of the Christian People's Party, believe that Norway's main challenge is now a lack of private wealth?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e194	Health enterprises face a significant economic and operational challenge in relation to the requirement imposed by the Stortinget, which was most recently identified in the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government during the autumn budgetary procedure, on the balance of operations in 2005. The governance requirement lies at the bottom of the processes that health businesses have now set in place to streamline their operations, while ensuring the maintenance of a level of activity that is at the level of what we had last year. I have reviewed the situation with the regional health managers, and the feedback to me is that this process is well on track and in line with the information we have provided to the Stortinget in the revised national budget. While it is, in my view, a significant potential for efficiency in hospitals, it is also important to ensure the maintenance of a structure that takes care of the responsibilities of health businesses to provide good health services to the population. In my view, it is very artificial to put the implementation of the hospital reform – for which there has been a large majority in this Chamber, and also the economic conditions on which there has been an agreement – up to the clear need to reform the tax system and, in this respect, to implement a tax reform that ensures a good social distribution. In my opinion, it is not possible without tax relief at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e205	It is wrong when the Minister of Health says that there has been an agreement on the financial assumptions. You can read the Workers' Party's alternative budget and see that we have systematically proposed increased appropriations to health businesses in line with the Government's proposals, such as: in the state budget this year, where we proposed NOK 1 billion and managed to negotiate up to NOK 0.5 billion. And the Minister of Health will see in the review of the revised budget that we will once again propose increased appropriations. Our problem is to get a majority in favour of the proposal for increased appropriations, because the Minister of Health and his party in the Government are not primarily concerned with strengthening the hospital economy. They are primarily concerned with distributing tax credits – mostly to those who already have the most. It is quite remarkable that the Minister of Health now in Stortinget says that there is no correlation between the level of taxation and the ability to provide good welfare services. When you decrease the budget annually by NOK 12 billion, it is clear that you have reduced opportunities to give reasonable appropriations to Norwegian hospitals. I ask again: is the Minister of Health actually comfortable with such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e212	First, the treatment of the hospital management basis. The state budgets adopted by the hospital owners and the regional health establishments are, of course, a majority in the Grand Duchy by means of conciliation negotiations and final decisions in this Chamber. We can't imagine them in that. That's actually the job they have to do. If they did anything other than implement the adopted budget assumptions of the Storting, they would be on wild roads. That's why I think it's important that the Storting's ability to lead this governance that applies more than a few months at a time. It is, in fact, quite crucial for health enterprises’ ability to do their job and for the governance authority of the system. Having said that, I would like to say that it is clear that there is a connection between the level of taxation and welfare benefits. But that's not what I said. I said that it is artificial to set up the need for tax reform against the investment in hospitals that this government has supported. That shows the clear numbers that can be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e221	There will be four follow-up questions – first Gunn Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e224	The reality now is that people across the country feel insecurity and uncertainty about the future of their hospital. The reason is that there is a lack of money. If we had used only half of the tax package that the government now wants to give, to invest in research and development in Norwegian hospitals, we would probably have got the world's best hospital. Does the Prime Minister really believe that most of those who will now receive this tax gift from the Government want it – rather than having a safe and good hospital where they live?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e231	The President has some doubts as to whether the Minister of Health is authorised to respond on behalf of the Prime Minister, but the Minister of Health is at least authorized to respond on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e234	I have understood that I am also authorized to answer on behalf of the Government on health policy issues, and this is what this is all about. I certainly believe that we are implementing the health reform in a way that takes care of people's need for security, namely to be close to services, while at the same time providing quality services. A good part of the structural changes that have been carried out and that are being implemented is precisely the starting point for ensuring the quality of services. To the discussion of tax relief: I have to say that I get a little confused when the Workers' Party is talking about tax levels. They have been talking for quite a long time about how they would have prioritised different things in terms of the tax reliefs given – of which they have been on the side of the brother. The vice-president of the Labour Party has said that after the tax reliefs that have been granted, the level of taxation that has been paid is now convenient. I believe that the need to clarify policy in this area is also quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e243	John I. Alvheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e246	There must be a very bad conscience with regard to the hospital economy when the Workers' Party is running this season with the Minister of Health as they are doing. The majority of people in this house have given too little money to the hospitals. The results are now available – for example: Guided and elsewhere in the country. This is something we should have known. The representatives of the Labour Party here should also have known this. My specific question in relation to what has been explained by the Förde and elsewhere is: I assume that the Minister of Health, as the General Assembly of Businesses, ensures that changes in the structure of hospitals take place on a professionally sound basis – and not solely because of poor finances?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e255	I can confirm that, as a business meeting of regional health companies, I continuously assess whether decisions taken in health business require treatment at the business meeting. Substantial structural changes are required. With regard to the concrete proposals put forward by Health Förde, I would say – since several speakers have been involved in this today – that some of them are clearly contrary to decisions taken at the business meeting. This applies, inter alia, to: the proposal not to implement a near-sickness centre in Florø, and proposals concerning the decision on an enhanced maternity centre in Lærdal. Such proposals may not promote either Health and Health West – without presenting them to the business meeting. This is an example of the political direction of this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e262	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e266	With grants for specialist health care of well over 50 billion dollars, it's not just a matter of giving more money, it's a matter of using the funds in a targeted way, so that they reach those groups that need it the most. We've got a paycheck that's significantly more expensive than the Stortinge, while creating uncertainty in hospitals about completely basic services. I was in Hammerfest two days ago myself, discussing the situation at the hospitals in Finnmark, as one example. There is a risk of reducing a number of functions in hospitals that could be called basic functions, e.g. emergency functions, maternity services, reduction to possibly only one emergency reporting centre in the county and reduction of other basic functions such as orthopaedic services, laboratory services and x-ray services. How will the Council of State ensure the provision of these services? And how will he ensure overall objectives for hospital activities, so that the requirement of financial balance does not go beyond functions that are absolutely necessary to fulfil the function of a hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e273	Let me first say that I agree with Mr Ballo that it is not only the level of appropriations that is important, but also, to the greatest extent, how the appropriations are used. This is precisely why the Stortinget provides that hospitals are to carry out efficiency improvements in their operations. The high level of costs in some of our hospitals is not only related to wage developments, although we have a wage settlement behind us for doctors who have become unacceptablely good and who, together with the partners they negotiate, are facing a major challenge in correcting the time that is coming. I would like to answer the direct question from the representative, Mr Ballo, as I replied to the representative, Alvheim, that the Ministry of Health and Health are also closely following the ongoing process of conversion and are very concerned to ensure that the necessary services are cared for. To the extent that we see that this does not happen, it will be intervened.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e280	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e283	The Minister of Health says that corporate governance is governed only by the decisions of the Stortinget. Then I have to make it clear that these are the majority decisions in Stortinget. We wanted to give more money to health companies. We also wanted to cancel debts, and we wanted to postpone the budgetary balance sheet date until 2006. Now it suggests that some of those who were in the budget agreement last autumn might be of the same opinion, at least in terms of postponing the balance sheet date. But it's just pushing the problems in front of it. We know that more money is needed. It has to be if we're going to keep the structure that we want to keep. Now we have a wage trend that is false and completely unrealistic. We have increased bureaucracy in relation to health companies and hospitals, and we are also using the funds incorrectly, for example. psychiatry, which I have previously requested from this pulpit. Will the Minister of Health do anything more than just follow along? Will he take the lead, and does he feel that he has the control of this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e292	The President would point out that the decision of the Storting is usually a majority decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e295	The Health Minister has control and takes control. That means I take responsibility for the development that is in the hospital sector. I take responsibility for following it, and I take responsibility for intervening if there is a development on some points that are not in line with the Storting assumptions. I have done so in specific decisions in several of the regional health companies, and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e300	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e303	My question goes to the Minister of Health. On Monday, the Mental Health Council presented a report claiming that the activity in mental health protection is likely to appear to be larger than it actually is. Furthermore, it was claimed that funds from the psychiatry escalation plan are leaking to the somatic environment. My question is: does the Council's report on mental health provide new information according to the six-monthly report on the plan of escalation with which the Stortinget should be made aware? I would also like to ask the Minister of Health if he has evidence that supports the Council's claims that psychiatry drugs are used to cover deficits in other parts of the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e312	The report of the Mental Health Council, which consists of a number of organisations in the field, was delivered to me on Monday. I take seriously the information contained in this report. I have therefore asked for advice on the underlying dossier, because the report contains a number of claims which have not been substantiated by the submission in the report. I have noticed that what has been presented is essentially about the period up to 2001, and that one specific example from the hospital sector, from the Nordlands Hospital, is for the period up to 2001, i.e. before the reform was introduced. As soon as I receive this documentation, I want to make sure that it is reviewed against the current hospital owners. I have also asked SINTEF Health to go through the numbers, because I think it is important not only to look at what happened before 2001, but also in the years that followed. I cannot see so far that this report provides new information on the status of the escalation plan in addition to that contained in the half-way report, in the Sintef material and in the health surveillance reports. The challenges described are recognizable, and the Storting is familiar with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e321	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was very informative. The Mental Health Council report identifies shortcomings in the implementation of individual plans for the individual user in psychiatry. What does the Council of State do to ensure that individual plans actually become a tool in the treatment system for individual users? Furthermore, how does the Council of State relate to the requirement set out in the report of an examination of the claims made by the Council for mental health?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e328	I behave as I said in my first answer. I take the claims seriously, but I want documentation on them. Whenever I get documentation, the claims will be examined and followed up by the department, through the apparatus we have with the county officials, who control the municipalities, and through the systematic reporting we have with the health companies. In the case of individual plans, it is permitted by several laws. A separate regulation has been developed, a guide has been developed and a significant information material has been developed. We have requested individual plans for health companies in the newsletters. We have commissioned the Social and Health Directorate to support the implementation of this, and we have included it in a circular to the municipalities. The county councillors have been instructed to follow this up, in particular, in relation to the municipalities and the municipal health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e336	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e339	Let me first say that I have clear confidence that the Council of State is taking this seriously. But what we've recorded lately is constant claims that psychiatry drugs are used for things other than what they're going to be used for. In particular, it has been focused on whether health businesses use them in somatics rather than in psychiatry. We have jointly established a system through the National Audit Office to ensure that the administrative decisions are complied with. How does the Minister of Health respond to the demand that the Riksrevision may be a sort of accomplice and really review the decisions taken, once and for all, to put this debate to death?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e346	It is true that claims are made from time to time, and these claims are pursued by the Ministry of Health to the extent that evidence can be provided to them. We've done it in relation to claims made by the National Association of the People of Psychiatry, we've done it in relation to claims made in the Pulse program in the NRK, and we found out, after we've examined it, that a number of the claims made in the pulse were incorrect and gave a falsely aggregated picture of the situation. We've attributed that to the NRK. We will also follow up this report, as I said. As to the role of the National Audit Office, it is in the nature of the matter that the National Audit Office is completely free to investigate what they want, to ask for the documentation they want, and to carry out the investigations they want. And, of course, I'm going to contribute to it, with the responsibility I have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e353	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e356	The Minister of Health showed, among others: in the case of individual plans and the problems surrounding them, that they are not actually developed even if reference is made to a number of laws which show that there is a requirement for this to be done. In fact, the Health Authority has also confirmed that this is not followed up in the first instance where the patient meets the public. This is expected to be followed up, and I hope the Minister of Health can confirm that. The problem under this report presented by the Mental Health Council, which referred to the pulse and the ring-fence they have made to 28 enterprises, is that in 22 enterprises there are no plans to increase activity, despite the escalation plan. If this turns out to be true, this in itself is very serious. Now, the Health Minister has claimed that part of what appeared in Pulse was not correct, and has attributed it to the NRK. The question is whether this also applies to the increase in activity — or the lack of an increase in activity — expressed by 22 of the enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e363	It will lead too far to address the details of this, but some of the things that this Ingreichsen report does not include at all, are the following developments in the escalation plan: that 50 pst. More children and young people received treatment in 2002 compared with 1998, when we started, that 30 pst. More adults were treated in 2002 compared to 1998, although more requests for help were given more help, waiting times were reduced, 3400 psychiatric homes were expanded and pledged in total, 64 district psychiatric centres were established, several thousands of people were on a training course, and a total of 3,400 annual works were set up in municipalities and health establishments during the first four years. In other words, it is a significant increase in activity. What we see is that the needs are increasing as the supply expands. We can do that around our reflections, but that's part of the challenge we're facing in the psychiatry bet, and the Storing is well-known.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e370	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e373	The newspaper has written in the leading position that if what is at the core of the report here is correct, it is a scandal. And that's what SV fully agrees with. When you hear the Minister of Health talk about what's coming out of the report, we're surprised that it looks as if the Council of Mental Health is a counterpart to the Minister of Health, where it's about doing what's revealed in relation to the failure of the psychiatrist and the lack of follow-up to the weakest in society. And when you hear the Minister of Health speaking here, it also sounds like the burden of proof as to whether this does not go as intended to lie with the Council of Mental Health and others than with the Council of State itself. It must be a point to start an investigation now, for example under the authority of the National Audit Office, so that you can find out where the failure is the greatest, and how to follow up the psychiatry properly. What the report describes is alarming. It's written that it's cut in the number of annual works in Health Mid-Norway, and that the operating expenses of psychiatry have only increased by 3 pst. And there may be deviations in percentages here, but the Minister of Health must be concerned that it is doing more in a field where the failure is great.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e382	I am surprised that the representative, Mr Ballo, is questioning whether the Minister for Health is concerned about increasing efforts in a sector where the failure has been great. It has been this Minister of Health, and he will still be in the time to come. We're going to bet further on the psychiatry, and it's vital that the funds that the Storting grant to the psychiatry come to the psychiatry. Therefore, we closely follow up health businesses, with regular reporting in this particular area. We follow up the municipalities through 24 psychiatric advisors from the counties, who just have the task of guiding and checking that the escalation plan is being followed up. We look at the Council for Mental Health as an important co-player, but I can't deal with loose claims that it turns out that, that many people experience that, that it seems that, etc. In order to do something about it, I need to know what lies below such claims, and that is what I have simply asked the Council for Mental Health to do on the points where the documentation is not in the report. Where there is evidence in the report, we are already following up, for example. to the Nordlandssykehuset.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e389	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e392	My question goes to the Minister of Health. After the rounds that have been here today, the Central Party believes that it is necessary to ask the Minister of Health to further clarify what controls he has seen to follow developments in Sjukehus-Noreg. We do it not on the basis of statements, but on the basis of facts. It is therefore the case that the state's takeover of hospitals has led to, for example: billion kroner for administrative settings, at 470 million. kr has gone to an additional administration and close to the same amount for an additional medical allowance. So the Legs have an addition of 15.8 pst. in their wages and salaries, and a new round of cuts was made available. The latter applies to Sogn and Fjordane. What procedures does the Minister of Health have to follow when it comes to supply, annual work, wage development and patient rights settings?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e404	Regional health enterprises are entrusted by the Stortingen with the responsibility for the healthcare of specialist health services. They are responsible for the performance of the employer’s function, they are responsible for the necessary control of the hospital’s activities, and they have a responsibility to report under the law adopted by the Stortinget to the owner, who is the Minister of Health and Health. These procedures are being followed up. In addition, we have introduced a special follow-up in specific areas, such as psychiatry, which we now had, because psychiatry on the part of Stortinget is a special area of activity, where we have imposed specific reporting and control on regional health businesses. I would like to explain this in greater width to Stortinget if it is desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e411	The last recommendation in Health Förde shows that the leaders go their own way. Many business reports show that extra funds are needed. The government has submitted its budget. Now it is clear that there is a multiple in the Stortinget for just added funds to hospitals to ensure a defensive operation. At the same time, the government has presented a tax reform in which $8 billion is spent on the top tax of those who are looking at more than NOK 350 000. Additional DKK 2.5 billion of the minimum deduction goes to the same group. My question is: Can the Minister of Health look at the patients waiting for his offer, in the eye, and say: Yes, I represent a government that prioritises tax relief rather than a strengthened health supply – so must it now be cut across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e418	If the representative Meltveit Kleppa's statement had been true, there would have been a problem. But that's not true. I represent a government that prioritises patient waiting time. I can confidently see patients waiting, in my eyes, saying, "Yes, we've been betting on the hospitals." Yes, we've had the waiting times down. We have reduced the waiting time dramatically during this government. It couldn't have gone past the representative Meltveit Kleppa's house, could it? We also see as government a clear need to reform a tax system that unfairly discriminates against income arising from wage work and income generated as capital income. We have made it quite clear that a prerequisite for implementing such a reform is that tax relief is provided at the bottom. The figure of the representative, Meltweit Kleppa, is based on very special conditions for the implementation of that reform. But we will, on the part of the Government, make proposals to the Stortinget for treatment that will safeguard the social profile of the tax reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e427	It will be one follow-up question – Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e430	The hospital reform has led to billions of dollars more spent on red tape, spending billions more on wages. The consequences include: a significant closure of posts around and a threat to local hospitals. It's supposed to be cut 775 years' worth of work in Health West. At the Hålogaland Hospital, the number of annual work is to be reduced by 117 to 35 out of 60 auxiliary nurses. There can't possibly be a better hospital offer of this. There is a need for an evaluation of the hospital reform immediately. I'm not saying that everything is wrong with the hospital reform – far from it – but we already know a lot about the negative consequences, the negative consequences that need to be corrected, if we're not to have a significant deterioration in hospital services, especially in the districts. Will the Minister for Health initiate this evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e439	I have said my own thing about medical pay and the work that health care companies are doing to follow it up in a better way than what is now done. In addition, the number of hospitals administered by regional health enterprises is lower than in the county municipalities. But I agree with the representative Haga that once the hospital reform has taken place, there is a need to evaluate it. I now understand that the representative Haga is asking for an acceleration of the evaluation I have notified that I will propose to the Stortinget in the state budget for the autumn. I cannot quite see the need for the Centre Party to speed up the evaluation of the hospital reform, for that evaluation has probably already been carried out by the Centre Party, and thus has accelerated a long time ago. But I am making my proposal in the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e448	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e451	I allow myself to ask questions to the Minister of State. The deficit in the municipal sector is now over 13 billion kroner. At the same time, the municipal minister has recently presented a municipal economic approach for the next year, which is the hardest over the entire period of the Bondevik II government. The municipalities carry out painful cuts: school drop-outs, care for the elderly and other important welfare systems. The strongest increase in unemployment is in the care and care professions. There is increasing unemployment in the education sector. Does the Council of State think this is in line with Right's promise to bet on school?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e462	The right said in the election campaign that we should bet on a better school, and we have done so significantly in terms of several school hours already from the fall of 2001, and then on with several school hours from the next fall. We cooperated with the Labour Party in the budget agreement, and we have submitted a communication on this. We have implemented a number of quality measures to address what we see as a major problem in Norwegian education policy, namely the content of Norwegian school. In the case of the municipal economy, it is not that we have provided the worst municipal structure for a long time. We have submitted a municipal plan for 2005 which largely maintains the status quo level, a little depending on how much you choose to spend on earmarked schemes next year. It is crucial what the Storing does during the spring, and so we will cover up demographic developments in 2005. We need to look at this on the basis that 2004 is a very good year for the municipal sector. It is the largest growth in free income that has been since as far back as in the 1990s, both on the basis of the government's draft budget and on the basis of the increases in the Stortinget. We have a deficit in the local government sector. The relevant question is not to discuss that deficit of NOK 13 billion, because one of the reasons we have a large deficit at that level is a number of investment plans, all of which have been agreed on here. What's the relevant imbalance figure at the beginning of 2004, is what we've agreed on in the consultations between KS and the Government, which is SEK 5.5 billion. Knowing that the increase in free revenues in 2004 is estimated to be below 5 billion kroner, there is room for improvement in 2004 in the balance sheet of the municipal sector in a place between 3.5 and 4 billion kroner. You have to bring that carpet with you when you consider what the local economy will look like in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e471	I am not in doubt that very many rapporteurs, including those from the Right and the Christian People's Party, are very grateful that the Labour Party has increased its revenue by more than DKK 2 billion in the budget procedure in the autumn. I note that the Council of State does not find room to ensure the welfare of our elderly and our schoolchildren in the priorities of the local government sector, but she finds room to promise another DKK 12 billion in tax relief, first of all for those with the highest income. This is a clear confirmation that the Government chooses tax relief for those who have the most, rather than strengthening the offer for those who need it, both in the case of the elderly and in the case of children. Tax relief is paid by tightening the offer to older people and to school students. The right promise was tax and school. The right-hand result is tax instead of school. How can Right-wing defend the cuts that now need to be implemented – among others. in the municipal sector, in the health sector – to finance the tax incentives that are the highest in the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e486	In fact, Norwegian schools are improving every day through the quality measures that have been implemented. It may always be desirable that there be more money, but Norwegian schools still have a better financial base than schools in most other countries to provide education. Now they also — if the Stortinget joins the government’s quality reform — have a better quality starting point in the future, including for the school everyday system and the content of the school. When we add to tax relief in the context of a tax reform, it is because we are committed to ensuring well-being, not only today, but also in the future. Some district municipalities now feel that jobs have disappeared because the competitive business has not made it clear to international competition. I believe that if we visit these municipalities, we will very quickly see that having politicians who take responsibility for the economy as a whole, who provide a healthy business environment and that it becomes interesting to invest – through a fair tax system – is actually the most important thing, both for school, for health and for elderly care in the future. There are some of us politicians who have not only looked at the 2005 celebration, but on which society the next generation will live.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e494	There will be four follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e497	The councils are good at juggling with numbers, but I miss a commitment to those affected by the Right Policy. The hardest hit by it, which is strongly influenced by the municipal economy, are the 26 000 Norwegian children living in poverty. They rely on the community economy to ensure them a good school — which the Right says they are busy with — with adapted training and an offer that allows those there to get what their parents cannot offer them. Now it becomes less adapted to training in Norwegian schools, it shows the statistics. There will be less resources to provide data equipment, e.g.: Which these kids can't afford at home. There will be less money to give parents social assistance, which they need in order to have a living life. I miss that commitment to the Council of State. She has made a municipal proposition where these poor children are not mentioned by a single sentence. Does the Council of State really believe that these poor children are far less important than the fight for tax relief for the richest?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e504	The figure 26 000 is based on a statistics that do not contain today's figures but figures from 2001. So it's about the situation that was before this government joined. Before you come up with a strong criticism based on numbers from 2001, which is 26 000 children, you have to go in and look at what kind of data base you have. We know what is the conclusion of the report by Mr Barna, namely that there is a need for individual, targeted action, and that the general measures do not necessarily reach those who are the poorest. We have therefore set up a separate action plan against poverty with targeted measures – for which we usually experience criticism – precisely because targeting the poorest also helps the really poorest children. It is not necessarily the general measures that will draw out the 26 000 children who lived in poverty in 2001 but to meet them with individual and adapted measures. That's why we've been focusing on a composition in the poverty package that's about the poorest in our society, and in addition to it, it's working to coordinate work, social security and social services, so that we get a targeting against those who have combined problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e513	Reidar Sandal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e516	My question goes to the Minister of Health. The answers given by the State Council, Solberg, are truly thoughtful. Clearly, it does not burn to obtain more money for welfare in municipalities, measures that would benefit children, young people and the elderly — not least — from. On the other hand, there is a great deal of commitment and eagerness in the taxation argument. The Councils of State are both present and otherwise inexhaustible in that area. The dictator in Skervøy does not ask for tax credits. He strongly warns against poorer welfare. He did that a few days ago. The Minister of Health also knows the need for strong well-being in our country, and therefore I ask: does the Council of State Høybrätten share the view expressed by the party trap in Skjervøy, or is it Mr Solberg's zeal for tax relief that he is most concerned with?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e527	I understand that this is a question not primarily to the Minister of Health, but to the party leader. I shall nevertheless reply as follows: The reality description that the representative Sandal gives of who burns for what, I don't recognize myself in. It is not that we have a municipal minister who does not burn for increased well-being and bet in the municipalities. We do, and that's my particular experience. It is also worth noting that in the year we are now in, 2004, we have a stronger investment in municipalities than in many, many years. We also have a stronger growth than even in the time of the Bondevik I government, when the central party put it in the government position. It is also a fact that the government has managed to invest both in tax relief and in welfare, in hospitals and on welfare in municipalities, at the same time. I believe that it will still be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e536	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e539	It must be strange for parents who are currently struggling with specialities in the SFO and the camp, who are going on a canoeing trip in order to better adapt their children's education, because it is being cut in the municipalities as a result of poor finances. It must be strange when Erna Solberg answers that she is busy by the next generation. She's busy explaining that there are 26 000 poor children, because it was in 2001. But the fact is that Norway and the United States use a special statistic. If we used the statistics used by other countries in Europe, the number would be much higher — perhaps up to 60,000. But I'm going to challenge her at one point, where she can help poor families. It is on the bump, if it goes directly in and raises the income limit for bumpers, to light and heat to poor families. There is a system that is being tested in relation to both revenue and expenditure, so there she would have all the possibilities to get right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e546	The government has provided a housing report that, in fact, the main instrument for this government of housing policy in the future in terms of social distribution is housing aid. That means that we are going to strengthen the housing support in the years that are coming, just as this government has been behind the strongest reinforcement of housing support that has been made by any government. In fact, housing support has increased markedly during the Bondevik regime – as part of the poverty package, and as part of our targeting against those who have it most difficult. In the housing notification, there is a concrete proposal to redeploy a grant that we believe does not give the same focus to those who are the poorest, from housing grants to rental homes to, among other things. increasing the level of compensation in housing aid as an important and targeted measure. Whether or not we can increase income limits, and then move away from the very poorest and to those who are in the vanguard, who are not targeting those who have the worst economy, we have to assess in relation to each budget, and we do. This government has invested more in housing than any previous government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e555	Per Sandberg - the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e558	My question goes to the Minister of State. Let me first say that it's a little funny with such spontaneous questions. Now there have been three representatives from the Workers' Party, Hanssen, Schjøtt-Pedersen and Sandal, all of whom have criticised tax relief that they themselves have been behind. And then all three representatives from the Workers' Party have criticised the community structure, which they themselves have voted for and stood behind. It's a little bit interesting with the Working Party in that context. But my question to the Council of State is in relation to the municipality layout for 2005. We have recorded what the Council of State and the Government are adding as an increase in 2005. The size of the population has adopted a number of reforms that are quite large and are a challenge for the municipal sector. Will the increase that the Government is raising here also cover the costs resulting from the challenges that the local government is facing, among other things. in the context of kindergarten reform and psychiatry reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e568	The president just wants to file that there's nothing wrong with practicing self-criticism. In the 1980s it was a very widespread exercise.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e571	It is such that we have suggested a framework within which the free incomes must stay within, a framework that is very broad in this year's proposal for a municipality proposition. One of the reasons is that it's still uncertain what the cost of kindergartens is going to be next year. There are several factors that are unclear. One is, of course, how many kindergartens we can build this year. The other important thing is that there is currently a pay settlement. Looking back at the cost growth in the nursery sector, related to the last two major payrolls we have had, there has been a percentage higher spending increase for kindergartens than it has been in the municipal sector in general. It also means something in relation to what the costs of implementing the next step will be. Money has been put in both in relation to the framework, in relation to the kindergarten and in relation to the psychiatry escalation. But the final distribution between free income and earmarked income cannot be made until we have completed the budgetary procedure. We have to have all of these unclear factors ready for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e578	And then the time for the oral question procedure is more than the other way around, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure. Before answering the questions on today's map, the President will give the floor to the Councillor Morten Andreas Meyer, who wants to give a correction to the answer given to question No. 22 by Britt Hildeng, on 12 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e586	I refer you to additional questions from the local representative Britt Hildeng in the Questionnaire on Wednesday 12 May 2004 concerning the transfer of resources from the social security centre to Aetat. In the supplementary question, the representative stated that the strengthening of the Aetat proposed by the Government in the revised national budget was transferred from the social security budget. In my answer, I was injured to say that the allocation to Aetat does not include the transfer of resources from the social security fund. That's not right. Fifteen million. NOK 40 million in total. kr with which the Government proposes to strengthen Aetat is a framework transfer from the social security system as a result of the transfer of tasks from this department to Aetat. In addition, the proposal comes in at 45 million. SEK to several labour market measures – a total of 85 million. kr. Let me add that this is a significant and targeted bet. The aim of the initiative is to provide active and job-oriented job-seekers at an earlier date than today. This could help to speed up the return of people with disabilities to work. Strengthening the provision of services to people with disabilities will also help to increase the professional activity of people with disabilities, which is an important objective of this government. The reduction of unemployment and the strengthening of employment must be addressed by a broad strategy. Action sites are important, but the number of action sites is not a good target in itself. The most important thing here is to help people without work back to work as soon as possible. It must contain instruments that go beyond the scope of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e595	The starting point for my question was the crisis situation that Aetat in Oslo and Akershus really are in. If you are to maintain the labour market offer that you have currently had, and which is also needed because of unemployment, you will lack 35 million. NOK – or go with 35 million. NOK in deficit. That was the background for the question. I would like to ask the Council of State to help Oslo maintain the scale of labour market measures that are needed and that it has so far had. And I want to ask that the reinforcements that are actually being done now happen in such a way that it can be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e602	The growth in the number of announced jobs in Oslo and Akershus is so far this year at approx. 27 pst. It is clear that the labour market is in a cautious improvement. I am very confident that the Aetate dimensionises the measures adapted to the actual situation in each state, and reminds me that in the proposal for the revised national budget, the Government continues the number of action places from the original budget for 2004. This happens despite the fact that the employment situation looks somewhat lighter than what was foreseen when the ordinary budget was presented last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e609	Thus, the Stortinget has finished dealing with the corrected answer and the related comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e615	There will be a number of changes in the revised question list, and in this context the President will refer to the overview that has been distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Question 2, from the representative Morten Höglund to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 5, from the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen to the Minister for Finance, has been withdrawn. Question 9, by Mr Inger S. Enger to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Industry and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed. Question 11, from the representative Ranveig Frøiland to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e635	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e638	I have a question for the Prime Minister who will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘Section 1 of the Constitution states that Norway is a free, independent, indivisible and inalienable realm. How far must EU integration have come before it is appropriate to amend this Constitutional Paragraph by any Norwegian membership of the EU?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e647	Constitutional conditions relating to any Norwegian EU membership were central to St.meld. No 40 for 1993-94, on membership of the European Union. The Communication did not identify any circumstances that would indicate that membership would conflict with the Basic Law § 1. Neither the integration process that the EU has subsequently undergone nor the draft new Constitutional Treaty has provided the basis for amending this assessment. I do not think it is right to go into a theoretical interpretation of the Basic Law's boundaries based on a hypothetical assumption that development in the EU should take a different direction than it is currently possible to predict.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e654	Paragraph 49 of the Basic Law states: ‘The people exercise legislative power at Storthinget.’ How does it harmonize with the Constitution when we subjugate ourselves and the EU directives and regulations fall under the Constitution? Isn't it time to change the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e664	I have already answered that question. In St.meld. No 40 for 1993-94 these questions were carefully examined, so no relationship was identified that would conflict with the Constitution § 1. What we've seen later, don't do that either, so the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e671	The President will only shoot in, before the questioner gets the floor for any additional question, that according to Norwegian state law the Stortinget manages the Constitution and changes to the Constitution, not the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e674	That's right. We left a union in 1905 – a hundred years ago. The right has declared that they will enter a new union. Does the Right add up to a gift to the Norwegian people by saying that we should enter a new Union as soon as possible? In 2005, it's been a hundred years since we were in a union. Is it really the Right's opinion that we should go into a new union? Is that a gift?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e681	It would be very tempting to start a discussion with Mr Bastesen on the substance of the EU issue. Yes, I agree that becoming a member of the EU would be good for Norwegian matters, from my party's point of view. But as Bastesen is also aware, it is therefore a compromise that underlies the Sem Declaration, and this issue is not on the Government's work list. So with regard to the formal questions that the Bastisen really asked, I have given clear answers to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e701	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e708	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: 'State Secretary Jensen said at a meeting of the Capital Region at the beginning of May that the Government will come with a note in September about the county municipalities' future. In the past, the Ministry has rejected such a discussion, as an evaluation of the municipalities will be carried out later. The Ministry also rejected the idea that the municipal structure project, on which they cooperate with KS, should discuss the future and tasks of municipalities. Is the State Secretary's resignation a signal of a new orientation from the Government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e717	In line with what has been said earlier, the Government will consider evaluating the county council in two phases. In spring 2005, the regional notification is presented to the Stortinget, with an assessment of the county municipality. This will be mainly limited to an assessment of the role of the county council as a regional development actor and an assessment of the role of the partnership in this context. In the municipal bill of ours there will be a general mention of the status of the county council's roles and tasks. During the next major period, the Government will carry out a broad and research-based evaluation of the county municipality and the organisation of the regional level in general. In addition to this, the Ministry is working on a document dealing with different models for the organisation of the regional level and possible consequences of the different models for the division of tasks, funding systems and legislation. The purpose of promoting such a document is to describe the scope for the regional level in the debate on the county that I expect to come to the next major elections. There will be no evaluations or proposals from the Government on a recommended model for future organisation in this document, but this will contribute to a realistic debate, among other things. related to the changes that need to be made in different areas, depending on the models that may be for changes to the county. It is important to me that we also have realism in relation to whether changes should be made, and at what pace changes can be made, in terms of the party political debate and debate taking place in society. In line with what the Government has previously put forward, we are waiting for the trials that are currently underway, before we turn to the Stortinget for a broader debate on models and changes in the level of the region in Norway. The document mentioning the different models therefore does not change the processes that I have already described regarding the assessment and evaluation of the current county municipality. It is a professional contribution to looking at the issues that need to be addressed in order to make changes and therefore provides a more realistic basis for the debate that many parties have in relation to their own programme management.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e728	I thank you for your answer. Professional contributions could be included in the municipal structure project. They weren't interested in it. The central party thought it was good that the department now engaged, and we thought it was good with the clarification that the Council of State is bringing here today, i.e. a professional commitment to a regional level. I find reason to remind you that the government of the People's Republic of China is falling. The impact selection suggests that strong populist regions are needed to achieve a broad, co-ordinated and development-oriented regional policy. It is also such that Right owns people in many county municipalities, e.g. in Rogaland, now enters and gives a clear signal to the District Commission to take care of, strengthen and develop a regionally elected level. I assume it's in the direction that State Council Erna Solberg engages.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e737	I would like to say that I am committed to having a debate that has all facets of opportunities and challenges on the table, once you have a debate, which is going on around the country, related to the issue of county structure. It is not that those who work in the municipal structure project have not been aware that this will happen. What we have refused to participate in is that the municipal structure project should also have a project that goes on real rounds to change the county structure and state structure. We have thought that this would be little done by a government that has actually put in place a number of trials, with the approval of the Storting, because they wanted to test new methods to work on in relation to county councils, and other problem solutions, including regional cooperation solutions. That in the middle of it we were going to start a process where we just forgot that we have started a very large development and trial process in the county councils, and then drew conclusions or the accelerated process, I would think it was a little bit to keep track of the range of county councils that are now actually working on other ways of solving problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e742	The central party thinks that what's going to be at the bottom of the municipal structure project is to clear up the tasks, what the municipalities are going to do. Then, as the Council of State says, it will force itself to debate what tasks can be transferred to a regionally elected level, not least because the regional state is expanding in a slightly different way. When the Council of State now takes note of the fact that this debate is pushing around the state, it is natural for me to challenge her that some municipalities have moved, for example. in relation to taking over responsibility for continuing schooling. Will it now stress that there is a need for a regionally elected level of education, culture, business development and labour market action and to be more responsible for resources, education and research? We can keep health professionals separate. Otherwise, is it not an important part of this debate that it is forcing a strong regionally elected level?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e751	I am not sure that it forces a strong regional level of government. We're going to evaluate what the new forms of work are and what they're going to be. I think there is a need for cooperation between the municipalities, but I think many municipalities can do many more tasks than they do today. These are interesting things. It is true that Asker and Bærum have withdrawn from the high school project. This is due to the particularly difficult situation facing Akershu County in the rapidly growing number of students in the years to come. Being guaranteed the same framework conditions as the county council was not good enough for the municipal politicians, because they felt that this would be at the expense of other tasks. There were also some open properties related to having an experiment in Asker and Bærum. But on the other hand, we have an experiment in Båtsfjord, which is actually district policy of the highest class, where young people are allowed to take secondary education without moving from their home. They are given the opportunity to live in their community until they are 18-19 years old. They get full education there, and you work with new methods for this. Maybe it's that what you initially thought would be okay for the central municipalities, actually turns out to be a much better district policy and local policy measure than what we thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e763	‘In the daily newspaper of 12 May 2004, it appears that the costs of hospital surgery on children with heart disease far exceed the reimbursement of the hospital from the State. For example, so-called Norwood operations cost approximately NOK 900000 per year. the patient, while more than 220000 kroner will be refunded. This seems to be an obvious bias in the DRG system. What will the Council of State do in relation to this issue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e770	The article in the Dagbladet is incorporated into a wide range of similar issues based on the addition of the DRG scheme and thus the ISF system, which has never been intended to have this funding system and which it will not have in the foreseeable future either. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to say something in general about the principles of the scheme. The main principles of the financial instrument were presented to the St.melding Stortinget. No 44 for 1995-1996. The input-driven funding is a system aimed at regional health enterprises in order to distribute revenues to them. Furthermore, the quality of the substance of the system shall be such as to provide good management information when allocating funds from the regional level to the individual hospital. The ISF system is not suitable as a pricing system against specialised treatment providers or individual patient treatment providers, and it should not and must not be used as a priority system for patients to be treated. It is primarily a financial distribution system for regional health businesses. The Ministry is responsible for the systems on which the ISF is based and has started work on improving the registration basis. The article in question refers to, for example: The Rikshospitalet now establishes a cost analysis system per year. patients. Such a system will not least provide a good basis for improving the management systems internally in hospitals, and it could also provide a good basis for monitoring the national ISF system. The article to which reference is made claims that another way of calculating the reimbursements of the ISF system would provide better consistency between costs and 100 pst. DRG refund. That's not right. The average cost would remain the same, but the hospitals, individual regional health companies and the state would gain more knowledge of the reasons for any cost deviations within individual patient groups. The current headline in the Daily also deals with how the funding of highly specialised treatment with small patient volumes is put up, and how it is handled within the system. I do not consider it appropriate to set up self-diagnosis-related groups for this treatment, which on a country-by-country basis account for between eight and eleven patients per year. years. However, I have started work on developing a more precise classification system for highly specialised medicine as a follow-up to Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 5 on the income system for specialist health services. Possible consequences of this work could have an impact on the ISF system at the earliest from 2005. A better classification system for highly specialised treatment will, independently, be able to provide better governance information for regional enterprises. Finally, I will be shown that a national working group was recently set up to review the highly specialised functions. Part of the task of the working group is to assess payment arrangements between regional health establishments. I will consider this group's proposed changes when the result is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e785	I would first like to thank you for your answer. I believe that the intentions of both the Minister of Health and I on how this system works are very similar. However, what is often seen as a problem is that very many practitioners in hospitals describe the following situation: There are a number of patients where the ISF payment, the DRG payment, is too poor. They thus become expensive patients, and they thus end up in line. There can be no doubt that the Rikshospital is looking at e.g. heart disease children who need a Norwood operation, such as very expensive patients. Although it is not intended, it leads to something that is perceived as a priority, which means that heart disease children do not receive the follow-up and treatment they need. I hope that the Council of State will ensure that that does not happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e790	It is important to be clear that the ISF system is not a prioritisation system to provide a prioritisation signal for certain patients. It's an average system, and that means there'll be a difference between resource use and 100 pst. ISF refund. It is also the case that hospitals’ priorities should be governed by the rules and guidelines laid down by the Patient Rights Act and the Regulations and not by the ISF system. This is one of the reasons why the Government of the State budget for 2004 proposed to place a damper on the weight of unit-price financing and to increase the basic funding accordingly. But we're facing a pedagogical task in relation to a system that's very intrusive towards the single-price financing system, because in some cases, consciously or unconsciously, it plays out that this system has functions that it doesn't have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e795	I think we're once again sharing assessments on how the ISF should work. It is clear that this is particularly dramatic in the areas that the Council of State itself calls highly specialised services for small patient groups. The example of the Norwood operation suggests that the danger that these types of operations will be considered very expensive is quite large. Now I understand that the Council of State has this particularly in mind when it comes to developing a new system. The Council of State, until it is in place, will take action to ensure, for example, that: Do children with heart disease receive the treatment they so absolutely deserve in the Rikshospitalet and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e802	As far as the patient group concerned is concerned, the Rikshospitalet has a national function which they cannot override by reference to the ISF rates. If necessary, we will clarify that to the hospital, even if they know it very well. As far as the general problem is concerned, I've said that we've been working on developing a more precise classification system for highly specialised medicine. In general, I am concerned that the rates of the ISF system should be updated more quickly, so that there is a closer relationship between map and terrain. But it is, above all, a grossly masked financial distribution system for the regional level we have, and not a price list for individual treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e824	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e830	‘The violence of a female taxi driver in the Drammen has been dealt with twice before in Stortingen’s Question Time. The case has now come to judgment, and the rapist has been sentenced to the ridiculously low sentence of 3 months. The police recently fined the driver because during the arrest she threw a post-it block at a police officer in connection with the spider taxi driver being brought in by 4 police officers. [[for a speedboat]] What does the Council of State think about the treatment the police have given to the victim of the violence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e837	I am asking for a little extra time, because I need to correct an answer I gave to the representative Knudsen on the same topic last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e842	It's approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e845	I find it correct for me initially and before I answer the question that is now on the map, to provide the following corrective information: In my answer to question No. 7 in the Stortinget Question Time on 19 March 2003 from Ulf Erik Knudsen, representative of the police's priorities in the investigation of a reported Drammen violence, I informed – on the basis of information provided by the Police Directorate – that the police had not succeeded in questioning the notified person because he had been abroad since 1998 and had reported emigration from Norway. I also informed him that he notified the move back to Norway in 2002. I have now been made aware by the Police Directorate that it is not correct that the reporter actually stayed abroad during the period mentioned. The right thing is that he lived and stayed in different places in South Norway. I am sorry that the police and the department did not have the correct information about where the notified person was located. In a letter dated 24 May this year, I have also complained to my mother about this. So to today's question: In my two answers in the Question Time on 19 March and 30 April 2003, which I still maintain, I pointed out that the taxi driver's breach of the provisions of the Road Traffic Act in 1998 and the violence episode she was subjected to in 2000 must be seen as two independent cases. As I have also stated in the Questionnaire on this matter in the past, I think it is regrettable that the investigation and therefore also the correction of the violence took a long time. However, it is now the case of the Drammen court on 19 April this year. I ask for an understanding that it would not be right for me to comment on the punishment in a specific case in the courts. In my reply to the representative’s question on 30 April 2003, I presented my view of the police’s attack on the female taxi driver. The background to the apprehension was that, after being called, she did not meet for compensation for the subsidiary prison sentence because the fine was not paid. The Police Directorate has informed me that the police at the time followed their general practice and established procedures for the collection of penalty zones, which ended in an attack on the woman. I have stated that on that occasion the police could have used something more accurate in the matter. I mean the same thing today. I have been informed that a new proposal has been issued to the woman on 8 May this year. The police directorate, who has examined the case, states that the background to the fine is the situation that occurred during the attack on the female taxi driver on 23 April 2003. The incident resulted in the police officer in Søndre Buskerud looking for the woman to have offended the public official during his service. The Chief of Police's decision is a decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office, not of the police as such. I am neither the Supreme Court nor the Public Prosecutor's Office. I must respect their independence. On the other hand, I am the chief police officer, and which has already pointed out several times by me, the police should have shown more discretion – or if one will – more flexibility in handling the fine settlement case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e864	The new thing, as the Council of State says, is this fine that has now come for throwing post-it blocks. There are two explanations on this matter. One is that the Drammen must have unusually puzzled policemen, who can't bear to throw a post-it block after them, and who must have four policemen to put on the ground and bring in a victim of violence who weighs less than 40 kg, which is 1.50 m high, and who also has a back injury. The second option is much worse. It's that the Drammen Police Chamber has someone running a private turnaround because of Kirsten Schei's criticism of the police and the SEFO report she's filed. This can be supported by the fine for throwing yellow patches that she has received. It can also be supported by the fact that a female taxi driver similar to Schei has been stopped several times by the police, and that Scheis driver is exposed to strange incidents by the police. What does the Minister of Justice think is the background to the matter: Do you have unusually puzzled policemen in the Drammen, or is there anyone who might abuse his position?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e875	The representative of course has the right to present his view on the matter. I have actually expressed my view of the matter, based on what I should deal with. It is that I have, first of all, complained that I was given incorrect information in connection with the violence. I have also repeated today what I have said, that more discretion should have been used in the case of the fine settlement, and I have said that in the case of the decision of the prosecution authority, I am not overall in that area. I would like to repeat that the discretion that should have been shown in the settlement case, i.e. the collection of the prison sentence, should have been more flexible. That's my position, that's my position, and that's how I think it's right to answer. Since I had an opportunity to repeat it, I also repeated it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e882	I assume that it is as far as a Minister of Justice can go in his criticism of his subordinates. In that case one must be able to see it as a strong criticism. Back to the violence: Schei had injuries all over his torso and in his face. She had wounds and bleeding, concussion and permanent back injury. She has been suffocated, turned on, kicked, etc. Penalty is unconditional imprisonment for three months. My view is that it's a punishment measure that's hair-removing. Will the Council of State take any initiative in the future to increase the general criminal framework on the basis of this and other similar issues? Finally, I have a few comments in relation to what the Council of State started with. It was very interesting that it appeared in the trial that it turned out that this person had been registered in the social security system and received sick pay. Isn't it grossly incompetent to find him?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e891	The representative is free to assess how he will characterise my answer. My answer is the word I stand for, and I find that to be more precise. What I stand for, I'll stand in for wherever I am, of course, also in the main hall. With regard to the general issue of violence, I have already received support – also with the support of the Progress Party in this Chamber – to intensify the reaction, among others. to repeat criminals who are perpetrators of violence. There's no reason to take it easy, on the contrary, to look at it strictly. It's a line that I'm going to continue in different practical contexts. I think it's right to give that signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e901	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Geological studies of the Stranda municipality of the Acherese show that continuous monitoring is now needed to prevent a major disaster in the event of a race. This is a responsibility delegated to the municipalities under the Planning and Building Act. This responsibility cannot be reduced to local authorities, either for economic or competence reasons. If one is to prevent a future disaster, a few must be clear responsibilities, which are realistic at the same time. What will the Council of State do in this matter?"
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e910	The representative seems to assume, in his question, that the responsibilities in this area are unclear. I do not agree with that. Among other things, because there are several actors and authorities responsible for different types of race and pace, St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002, Social Security, briefed on the initiative of the Ministry of Justice in 2001 of an interministerial group as a cartel and discussed responsibilities in relation to action. The experience of the Ministry of Justice is that there are not such unclear responsibilities as have been expressed. Municipalities have a responsibility for protecting against natural damage through the Law on Natural Damage and the Law on Planning and Building. The issue of economic and competence burdens for municipalities in relation to the hazards of migration and racial origin must be considered in the context of the arrangements in this area. I am familiar with the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture at the State Natural Damage Fund can provide grants for monitoring and securing danger areas for migration, including large mountain cliffs. The State Natural Damage Fund has, among other things: awarded grants for the monitoring of Norway’s geological survey, NGU, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. From 2004 onwards, the NGU has the national coordination responsibility for the SCS programme and, in cooperation with several county municipalities and the State Natural Damage Fund, has launched a project to identify high-mountain hazard areas. I believe it is important to work to prevent major steps, or that the consequences of such steps should be as small as possible. That is why, as Minister of Justice, I have taken the necessary initiatives in order to establish contact between different professional environments with professional responsibility for progress. I also assume that the outsourced municipalities are seeking assistance within the current arrangements in this area. Let me add that in connection with the 70th anniversary of the Tafjord accident, a very important professional seminar was held in the direction of the municipality of Norddal, with the assistance of the county council and the county council. There came up information that I thought was very useful, but also the opinion that it was to make those who were responsible, were sitting together and going together. I know that the county has continued this practical work, so that it should not arise – let me say – not formal but practical gaps in the responsibilities. I feel that the county is working constructively on this, and I also have the impression that the Ministry of Justice, which has taken the initiative to join forces, also has a constructive dialogue with the county council. I find reason to add it. I will also praise the commitment that has been taken and done locally here, and the willingness to think cooperatively and co-operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e927	I am grateful for the Minister of Justice's answer, which clearly shows that the Minister of Justice has taken a good look at the issues. The problem is that in my question I did not just mention it with clear responsibilities. I also said they had to be realistic at the same time. For a small municipality that is to be responsible under the Planning and Building Act, i.e. responsibility for securing steps on buildings and extension areas, it goes without saying that this is going to be very difficult, especially when we see such a situation as Åkersenset as an example. If this mountain side emerges, as there is reason to believe, and so also geological experts expect to happen sometime in the future, the size of it will be eight to ten times greater than that of the Tafjord accident. My question to the Minister of Justice is, When can we expect something to come out of cooperation? When can we see a result, so that the inhabitants, among other things. in the village Hellesylt in Stranda municipality can see – I kept saying – brighter on everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e936	I'm not going to try to go into different geological conditions in More and Romesdal, except to say that I've got a very real and thorough introduction to it by geologist Anda, who also described the situation in the various places. But I'm not going to try to reproduce it from the Stortinge pulpit. That would be totally wrong. The point is that responsibilities are clear. What I've also pointed out is that there are also means, only the means are being coordinated correctly. It was in this context that I referred to the fund that the Ministry of Agriculture has, the State Natural Damage Fund. I can also inform you that the County of More and Romesdal has now sent me a draft of a cooperative model, to ensure that you can just merge in such a way that no one will be left. I see it as a very constructive input, and I want to contact the Ministry of Agriculture to make sure that this answer is as satisfactory as it should be when you work in the way that you do locally. I feel that initiatives have been taken and that initiatives are being continued. In this context, I would like to praise again both the municipalities concerned, the county council and the county council for their active work. It's cooperative that's the attitude here, and that's what I'm prepared to do to contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e945	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I look forward to the fact that both this municipality and other coastal-scraper municipalities now have access to funds so that they can get a continuous monitoring of these dangerous mountain sides that we actually have part of along the coast. I look forward to the Minister of Justice taking the initiative that he has now announced to the Ministry of Agriculture, so that the Natural Damage Fund will provide sufficient funds so that these municipalities do not – I was saying – be subjected to the enormous financial burden of securing their inhabitants against mountaineering. I hope the Minister of Justice will quickly ensure that the funds are put in place, so that the population along the coast and near these mountains can now actually sleep safer at night, know that they are being monitored, and that contingency plans for evacuation are in place in case of damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e956	I am added that I am not constitutionally responsible for mountaineering, but that I have a supervisory responsibility for not creating an empty space. That's the responsibility I've taken. In this context, I have shown how we have tried to handle it, and of course, it is a work I will follow up. That's why I chose to go to the municipality of Norddal on the 70th anniversary of the Tafjord accident. On that occasion, a very valuable memorial ceremony had been organised with an all-encompassing, precise, compact and instructive seminar. That seminar brought me knowledge. I also met the representative's party trap, the rapporteur in Stranda, who was a practical and solution-oriented man. He was a typical sunmer. That's how I think: let good practitioners sit together. I promise that I will make my contribution to this, and keep it safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e961	The next question is from the representative Steinar Bastesen. Since Steinar Bastesen is not in the hall, we go on to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e967	This question, from the representative Inger S. Enger to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e970	«The role of the consumer was carefully emphasised in the security of supply message. One issue that was not mentioned concerns bills sent by power companies to customers. The bills from the power companies are not exactly correct. The flow shall be read every 3 months, for some 1 times per. year, whereas the bills allocate the consumption in much more detailed intervals. People who turn off the power on the cabin in winter still get the bill for expensive winter consumption. What will the Council of State do to change this unfortunate practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e977	With effect from 1 January 2005, the NVE has introduced requirements for the installation of hourly metering in consumers with an annual consumption greater than 100000 kWh. This requirement covers approx. 85000 measuring points, which account for approx. 60 pst. of the total electricity consumption. These consumers thus receive electricity bills that distribute consumption precisely over the year and day. The question raised by the representative Enger is therefore addressed to those consumers who do not have an hourly measurement. However, I would like to make it clear that even smaller consumers can install hourly meter at their own expense if they want to. For smaller consumers who have not installed an hourly meter, a load profile is used to estimate what actual consumption has been like within a period. The consumption profile mainly reflects the average load profile of consumers without their own hourly meter in the network area. The use of the load profile was one of the main components of the opening of the power market for smaller consumers and made it possible for them to choose to change the power supplier without requiring the purchase of their own hour meter. All measuring points shall be read at least once a year. For households with expected annual electricity consumption greater than 8000 kWh, the reading shall be done at least every three months. The reading forms the basis for the billing. It is the transmission companies that are responsible for the meter reading. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that consumers are free to read their meter more often and report the meter to the network company. It is not uncommon for this to be taken into account by the transmission company and the power supplier. Periodic metering means not measuring actual hourly consumption but measuring actual total consumption for the period. I state that if the consumer has reduced his total consumption during the period, the meter reading will, of course, record this. The government announced an increased focus on consumers’ position in the electricity power market in the wholesale notification of security of supply for electricity, which was submitted before Christmas last year and dealt with on 18 May this year. The Government wants two-way communications, which allow for hourly reading, to be put into use in the power market. Technology is under development, but is still expensive today. However, costs are expected to decrease. Some broadcasters have already installed such technologies today, in some cases on the initiative of the NVE. The R & D project ‘Consumer flexibility through the efficient use of ICT’ is used to provide knowledge on how this best should be implemented, inter alia. avoiding misinvestment. This project will be completed by the summer of 2004. NVE will give its assessment to the Ministry of Oil and Energy for the autumn. In my view, current electricity consumption measurement practice is largely satisfactory, but the use of the load profile may have disadvantages in the case of large price changes within the billing period and for customers who have a load profile that deviates from the average load profile in the network area. In such cases, e.g. for cabin compartments that turn off the winter cab current, these may serve to transmit the metering status to their local network company more frequently than to other consumers. Many online companies today have their own reading systems for their cabin customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e994	That's right, as the Council of State says, that it's essentially going to be right, but we're most concerned about what's not going to be right. The fact that we don't get correct power prices has become a bigger and bigger problem as prices fluctuate so much. We now have a price variation from 25 cents per cent. kWh and up to NOK 1 When this comes to a stencil bill, it is clear that it could be completely wrong for consumers. In other contexts, we are committed to ensuring that consumers have the best rights. Among other things, in the security of supply notification, as stated by the Council of State, the consumer had to be given the opportunity to change companies often. There was full agreement on that. But such as this, which is actually real expenses that people shouldn't have, it's not taken so carefully. I would ask the Council of State to be even clearer on what can actually be done so that as consumers we can get a proper bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1005	As the representative is aware, this is not my special area. But it's clear that an average consideration of power prices leads to the population paying a total of the right amount, while it gets wrong individually. This means that when, hopefully in a not too distant future, you get the right electricity price individually, on average half the population will get higher current bill and half the population get lower current bill. Obviously, for the sake of those of us who are busy saving electricity at the times when there are high power prices, it would make sense to get these things in place. At my discretion, on the one hand, there is a consumer perspective in this – it should be correct in relation to what you get, and what you pay – and it is an added aspect of it, which should not be underestimated either. It has to be an economic incentive for the consumer, where there is an impact on the bill when you really do something about saving electricity. As far as I can understand from the note I have in front of me, it is technology development that can do something about this, and consumer pressure on suppliers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1012	I thank you for your answer. I know it's not Gabrielsen's department. However, I want to follow up on something here, because this is actually some kind of dry-age insurance, and there's a lot of motivation in it. We're getting better at saving if it pays off. That's how we're aligned. I think it is important that the ministry also put pressure on the network companies, so that they develop good arrangements. Now it was said that those who use more than 100000 kWt have hour meters. It shows that the system actually works if the consumption is only large enough. This should also apply to ordinary consumers. In Sweden, from 2008 onwards, they will make monthly payments, and it will roughly be 2/3 better than what we do in Norway. There are many possibilities if one is only aware of them. It is okay that every individual consumer should be careful, but I also think it is important that those who have overall responsibility here see their responsibility in doing so as correctly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1023	I share the views of the representative Enger – I do not know if I should just call that concern – but it is clear that having an incentive to save is important. Obviously, if we save 1 kW, we've saved, whether it's 25 cents or 1 dollar, but it's also clear that at the moment that we know that the hour for the hour opportunity is there, it's going to be an extra incentive. Once the Swedes have adopted a strategy where they're going to do this in 2008, it's with the fact that the rug, as I said, there's a cost side to it, because otherwise they would have done it instantly. It is clear that the costs involved in introducing this are not as many as the consumer to whom they can be dropped. But what about everything, I think it would make sense to do this when it's cost-effective. I would say that there is no special, good reason why we should wait longer than the Swedes. We like to be in front of the Swedes!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1030	That gives the President his assent! So we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1039	I have a question for the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘Many suggestions have been made on how to make use of church buildings. It has been shown that many of the church buildings need urgent maintenance and refurbishment, for which there is no economy in the municipalities. There have also been suggestions to convert the churches into hotels and mosques. What is the opinion of the Council of State on the proposals to convert church buildings into use for cremations and competing religions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1048	In recent times, there has been a public debate on alternative uses of church buildings and the purpose for which a closed church should be used in the event. This debate has the background to the fact that many of our churches were built and placed when we had another infrastructure than we have today, and in that they are far away from where people live. Another reason for the debate is that many of our churches are in poor condition. As we know, all churches are dedicated to their purpose. If a church is to be closed as a church, the ministry must take a decision to that effect. But it is the church owner himself who must take the initiative for closure. And because there are church sounds in the Norwegian Church that own the churches, a discussion about closure and alternative use in the first row will be a question the Church itself has to consider. The Ministry will not take any initiative for the closure or alternative use of churches. During the spontaneous Question Time in Stortinget on 5 May this year, the Prime Minister received a similar question as what I have now received. In the reply, the Prime Minister pointed out that he had confidence that Churcha was able to evaluate such matters himself. That's what I mean, but I'd like to add that I don't see a hotel or a mosque as a natural purpose for a closed church. The debate about alternative use of churches touches our feelings. It's quite natural that this engages us. But in the debate, sometimes the impression is that there has been a recent situation in which a number of churches are involved in closure. That's not the case, and I don't think such a situation will happen either. A large and broad debate on the use of abandoned churches is thus almost a hypothetical debate. If the ministry is given a case about the closure of a church, I will evaluate this in concrete terms. And as I said, I want to be very responsive to what the church owner himself thinks. I'm very pleased with that commitment both the representative Bastisen and others have shown to our church building. But the focus in this matter should be the challenges we have today to keep our churches close. There is an important debate, which we will otherwise be able to come back to during an interpellant debate here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1061	The churches used to be very rich. They had large land areas, which were associated with the churches. We had people who cared for these interests. They are gone, and the land areas are placed under the Information Society's fund. Could it be appropriate to use the Information Society's fund to maintain the churches more closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1066	The Information Service's fund manages the resources located there. There are some who say that only we use funds from the Information Society's fund, we can take care of all our churches right away. But the entire return of this fund is being used for church purposes today. Something is being used for youth work and actions taken by the Council of Churches. Something is also used for the maintenance of the pastors, both the houses and the estates around the pastors. So everything today is going to be the return of the fund to take care of our church property. Now we also agreed in Stortinget that we should not lose the fund for funds. I think that is also important for this fund. But I sometimes get the impression in the debate that someone thinks there's a lot more in this fund than it really is. As I said, we use the entire rate of return, and we use it for church purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1073	I thank you for the answer – and I forgot to thank you for the first answer. Now I'm doing it for both of them. There have been several queries about the lack of maintenance of the Godhouses. Will the Council of State consider whether the State can assume responsibility for the houses of God, as the State, among other things. Did the hospitals deal with the hospital reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1080	Now I don't think it's the right way to go that the state should take responsibility for all the challenges we have in society. I believe that the municipalities and those who live near our churches are the closest to being able to take care of them. We know that it's church sounds and councils that own the churches, but it's the municipalities that are responsible for the maintenance. We also know that the municipalities didn't do that job well enough in good times, so we now have a lag. Some of our church buildings also come under cultural memory protection. We come back to Stortinget with it in a big message from the Minister for the Environment, where our church buildings will also be evaluated. Otherwise, I think I'll show you the interpellation that we're going to have in Stortingen once before Stortinget leaves each other in ours. There we can take up this debate to the fullest extent possible. There are many ways to solve this, but I think it is not a good solution that the state takes over all responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1092	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade administers public acquisitions law. In a number of cases, the Ministry is assumed to have breached its tender law. Here is an example of a Consul Summit of Cap Gemini Ernst & Young concerning the organisation of the instrumentation and an agreement with ABG Sundal Collier concerning the telecommunications company BaneTele, which was given without a tender. What will the Council of State do to ensure compliance with the law in the Ministry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1101	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade carries out a large number of annual purchases. All acquisitions are carried out in accordance with laws, regulations and administrative provisions and the Ministry's internal guidelines. This is demonstrated, inter alia, by: of the policy that all acquisitions in excess of DKK 100000 ex. VAT is recorded in a separate procurement protocol. The minutes shall contain, inter alia, the following information: the manner in which the acquisition is carried out and the reasons for the choices made. In addition to the continuous updating of internal guidelines, the Ministry implements inter alia: internal professional seminars intended to enhance the competence of all participants in procurement processes. Of course, there is a great deal of emphasis on following the procurement rules, also because the department is a department of responsible for procurement. It is my impression that the competence for acquisitions is good in the department and that the legislation is being complied with. With regard to the two issues to which the representative Hedstrom refers, I have the following comments: Allocation of the Consul Summit to Cap Gemini Ernst & Young in the autumn of 2003 in connection with the organisation of the instrumentation was not carried out by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Immediately after the media review, the Ministry was briefed on the acquisition. By letter of 24 October 2003 to the acquiring management group, the Ministry stated that the regulation on public acquisitions had not been complied with and assumed that future acquisition processes would be carried out under the provisions of the regulation. In the case of the second case, the representative Hedstrøm mentions the involvement of ABG Sundal Collier as financial advisors to the Ministry of Industry and Trade in connection with BaneTele AS, I have carried out a review of the case and concluded that the exception that has been made is within the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1112	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I expect him to think about this with financial services and the interpretation of it, but I'll leave it. Here I record that there are professors and ESAs who have other interpretations and use them. So we have three levels of government in Norway. You buy goods and services for an estimated NOK 220 billion, and that is a significant savings potential. If you have unprofessional or illegal handling, it can have great financial consequences. Public acquisition complaints have revealed that a number of state agencies are in breach of the law. I will mention some examples: Avinor, the State Administrative Service, the University of Tromsø and UDI. In the last case, it's 160 million. NOK not put up for tender. Since the Ministry of State administers the Public Acquisitions Act and also the Regulation, what does the Council of State think should be done to ensure that state agencies comply more closely with the legislation? It must be very important that they go ahead with a good example, when there are so many billions in total you can get into savings in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1123	I very much agree with the representative's general approach to the problem, but I think it might be a little unnecessary to insinuate on the question that it is assumed that in a number of cases the ministry has broken the tender law. So I can't see that has happened. The important thing is to have competition in public procurement. It is the whole idea behind this legislation and the creation of the KOPA body, which is administratively governed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Those who read newspapers will at least have seen that I have not brought silk gloves on either municipalities, county or state agencies that have not complied with this code. Of course, I am fully aware that the department itself sits in the middle of the glass house and has an additional responsibility to comply with the legislation. There is no doubt that the public sector has much to gain from improving purchasing practices. Then the minimum is that things are put on the tender.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1132	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. What KOFA has discovered is that there has been a breach of the law within the state agencies that I mentioned. My second follow-up question must then be: What is the reason for this? It could be anything from camaraderie, corruption and masculinity to lack of competence. Governments stressed that there was competence in his department — but this happens at three levels of government. What, then, should be done to avoid a cumbersome procedure? Should this not be allowed to happen gradually, when there are significant amounts involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1139	The public sector has 700000 employees making purchases. When we introduced new legislation, we were fully aware that not everyone was perfect in this from day one, although I think the will was there. The indications that it was going to be corruption and camaraderie and things like that, we can let go of it, but what has been an overall work initially at this stage has just been to inform and empower those who are buyers around municipalities and counties. But we see time and again that even elected bodies want to ignore the competition to give preferences to their own local suppliers – those of us who have half a life behind us in politics and local politics, are not familiar with that issue. However, I believe it is very important that the public sector, which makes purchases for 200 billion kroner a year, has a conscious view of this and provides for competition – that is the job of KOPA to live up to. So the undersigned does not use silk gloves on the infringements that have occurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1148	This question, from the representative Ranveig Frøiland to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1151	I will ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘In the revised national budget in spring 2003, it is agreed that new gas ferries will be built. The suspension connection that should be used for these ferries has been established. The unemployment rate at the yard is high, so such jobs are important, and it's urgent. How is progress?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1160	The Government announced on 10 February this year that the operation of the national road ferries E39 Mortavika-Arsvågen and E39 Halhjem-Sandvikvåg must be put out of competition. These two connections are required to be operated with new ferries using liquefied natural gas (LNG) as fuel. This is in line with the Government’s objective of increasing the domestic use of natural gas and a more environmentally friendly ferry fleet. The operation of the two connections shall be granted for a period of 10 years, assuming a start on 1 January 2007. The Ministry of Transport has decided not to use a traditional tender in this case, but to compete with pre-qualification and subsequent negotiations. This is due, inter alia, to: the conclusion of the contract involves new technologies which are difficult to reconcile with traditional tenders. The State Road Administration is the State Road Authority for the license and grant of national road ferries and manages the acquisition of the ferries. Notice of competition was published in the EEA area on 3 April this year. The deadline for applying for prequalification was 10 May. A total of six applications were received by the Road Administration of the State by that deadline. All six applicants are Norwegian shipping companies. The road authority now assesses the applications received, and at the end of May, the competition basis with an invitation to tender will be sent to the qualified applicants. After the closing date for the offer, negotiations will begin with the selected operators. The duration of the connections will be allocated according to the plan so that the new ferries can be contracted by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1169	I thank you for your answer. The reason why the Storting made this decision – it was not presented by the Government’s side – was that the situation with regard to employment at our shipyards was, and is, dramatic. The second reason was that we now have to use gas in the transport sector and acquire the necessary skills so that we can compete with the rest of the world to get built boats and ferries that go on gas. This is important industrial policy, it is important employment policy – and now it is one year! We haven't gotten so far that these ferries can be ordered. It has taken too much time, and I sincerely hope that now it will be time to build the ferries. And then there are two relationships that have to be arranged to be Norwegian tenderers. It is that the offer language must be Norwegian, and that it must be a research and development project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1180	I have verbally become aware that the tender language will be Norwegian, and I will at least follow that point up. I very much agree with the representative. At least I will do what I can, and make sure that the information I received today is correct. I also agree with the representative that the matter must be properly progressed. I believe that the information I now provide on behalf of the Minister for Transport is about that it has become so. As far as the other issues in this case are concerned, I am asking for an understanding that I cannot go into them, because it is not my usual constitutional responsibility at the moment. But I'm well aware of the employment challenges, and of course I'm also familiar with the heavy and strong commitment of the Storting to use natural gas as fuel on ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1187	I understand, of course, that this Council of States does not know all these details – but this is so incredibly important. It says these vacations can be contracted before the end of the year. It's on the border, I thought -- sixteen years after the Storting made these decisions! It'll be too long. Everything that is possible to do this needs to be put in place more quickly, bureaucrats have to work a little faster – because there is an equally dramatic situation when it comes to unemployment in the yard, and it is equally important to acquire skills. I sincerely hope that the Council of State here will do what he can to enable these projects to go to the Norwegian industry, and that they will be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1194	This Council of States has to deal with all kinds of competition according to known rules of the game, but I understood what the representative marked in the first comment. My knowledge of the ministry in the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads is that they are labour-intensive and that they operate things both efficiently and creatively. But that's my general idea I'm assuming, that the world is still like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1199	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-26.ana.ud1565e1210	There is no record.
