ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e54	The President notes that it has previously been decided that Odelstinget will continue until the current file is processed. I assume that the representatives are aware of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e57	Since 1974, the Pay Guarantee Act has guaranteed employees, among others. wages and salaries and holiday pay, even if the workplace is bankrupt and insolvent. The welfare community works. But, like most other welfare services, this has also increased sharply in scope. In 1974, the scheme was intended to be a separate item on the government budget and to be covered by the employer’s fee. The latter has not happened – at least to a very limited extent. The wage guarantee has been a social security scheme, quite simply. The average payment to those who needed the scheme was NOK 55 000 in 2003. Now the Government proposes that the maximum payout be reduced from 3 G, which is approx. NOK 176 000 to NOK 2 G, which is approx. NOK 117 000. Someone will of course lose it, but it will most likely affect those who initially had good pay and high demands, and not the majority of those who have benefited from this law. It's bad to get unemployed. There are alarmingly many bankruptcies, but those with high wages usually also have the greatest ability to cope with the situation. It is a large number, all but SV, that increases the setting, which I hereby recommend.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e73	It is important to have a pay guarantee scheme, not least because it will safeguard employees financially in a situation of bankruptcy. Even if it has become a social welfare scheme, which the case-speaker had in mind, it is a very important advantage. A change that the government is now proposing, from 3 G to 2 G, can seem dramatic at first, and maybe it is. However, when the Labour Party chooses to follow the Government's proposal on this matter, it is not without a certain concern. One can of course get an unfortunate outcome of such a change, and it won't be good. That's why we want the government to follow closely, so that it doesn't happen. I will report that the Labour Party will soon come back to this case if the scheme proves not to work after the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e80	I would just like to ask for the floor to make a brief statement on this matter on the part of the Progress Party. Initially, I will be shown that the Progress Party joins the Government's proposal to amend the Pay Guarantee Act. The proposed amendments to the Pay Guarantee Act mean that the maximum level of coverage through the pay guarantee scheme in the event of bankruptcy will be reduced from the current 3 G, i.e. approx. 176 000 kroner to 2 G, approx. NOK 117 000. I would like to mention that the vast majority of those who will be subject to this law in the future will probably notice little about the changes that have been proposed and that will be adopted with the support of all the parties here in the Chamber, except SV. The most important thing is that, in the event of the bankruptcy of the employer, a system is still in place which provides for a proper coverage of the outstanding pay claims of employees. There is reason to note that government expenditure on the remuneration guarantee scheme has increased in part significantly in recent years. For this reason, it is necessary to take measures to limit the growth of payment through the pay guarantee scheme in terms of wages and salaries, holiday allowances and some other benefits that employees are not covered by the employer because of bankruptcy. The annual savings for the State are estimated at more than 50 million. kr, approx. Fifty-three million. kr. The average payment per. the employee covered by this scheme in 2003 was approximately 55000 kroner. As an employee, even after the proposed reduction is introduced, one will continue to cover up to 2 G, around approx. 117 000 kroner, i.e. over twice the average of these payments in 2003. In view of this, the Progress Party considers that the remuneration and financial requirements of the majority of employees employed by firms that are bankrupt are adequately met even after this amendment and that most employees will continue to meet their outstanding remuneration requirements in a good way through the remuneration guarantee scheme in the event of bankruptcy. In conclusion, I would also like to see Norway be obliged by the EEA Agreement to have a guarantee institution to ensure that employees are paid in bankruptcy of the employer, and that even after this amendment, Norway will continue to have a satisfactory system to meet employees’ pay claims in bankruptcy of the employer – also in relation to similar schemes in most other European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e97	SV is the only party against cutting the pay guarantee scheme in bankruptcy from 3 G to 2 G. We're a little bit amazed at that. The rapporteur says welfare systems work. Yes, they do, and we'll be happy for that. So this case is about people who are in a rather dramatic situation. They have worked in a company that has gone bankrupt, and the money they should have had in wages has gone off. That's what this is all about. I record that those who are in favour of this cut argue that it is they with best advice who are being hit. I haven't seen a single proof that this is the case. On the contrary, it's those who have a lot of demands here, which the company might owe the most, that lose. There's an annual savings of 53 million. So that money is people who have lost the job and who have lost the salary they have earned, who are going to bear the loss. I have to say that SV does not think this is a good solution, when the state is not exactly in a very needed economic situation, to put it this way. No one can claim that the state is today. I'm glad that the Workers' Party realizes that this can turn out dramatically, and that they are willing to reconsider their position if that happens. I would also encourage the Council of States, as well as it can be done, to look at the effects of these changes, because it can be dramatic -- I think most of us can imagine -- to lose as much money as 1 G represents. Swallow with our pay I think it would notice that such a sum disappears out of the income you've expected to get in. Some people here have referred to the average – and that might be okay – but no one lives his life on some kind of average. In fact, most people live on the money they have in their payroll bag, and when the money goes away, it's not the average that matters. It's important whether or not you actually get to cover the salary you've lost. That's what this case is about. With the arguments I have put forward now, SV will go against this change, a tightening of people who have been unfortunate and lost their jobs. We don't think there are any political reasons to make such a change today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e112	The Government has proposed to reduce the maximum wage guarantee payment limit from 3G to 2G, i.e. from NOK 176 334 to NOK 117 556. This means that, in the individual case, the pay-out of the employees will be limited to an amount equal to twice the basic amount of the people's pension. The background to the proposal is that government expenditure related to pay-guarantee payments has increased in recent years. The number of pay guarantee cases has increased every year from 2000, and the number of cases in 2003 was highest since 1993. This is due, inter alia, to: a large increase in the number of bankruptcies. The figures for 2004 show a decrease in relation to 2003, but there is still a need to reduce the costs associated with the scheme. The majority of the municipal committee supports the Government’s proposal and considers that the changes do not create significantly worse conditions for the majority of employees affected by bankruptcy. The majority of the Committee is asked by the Government to monitor the development of the pay guarantee scheme in order to ensure that it continues to function accordingly. I can assure you that we will follow this closely, and do our best to ensure that the employees are taken care of. The minority in the Committee believes that the proposal in practice means that those with the greatest need for financial assistance are hit hardest. I can't agree to that. The average payment per. the employee in 2003 was NOK 55 000, i.e. well below the proposed new maximum level. Just 13 pst. more than 120000 kroner were paid by the employees who received the remuneration guarantee cover in 2003. I therefore assume that relatively few workers will be affected by the proposal, and that there will be something to say first of all for workers with relatively high earned demands. I would also say that workers who are not working after opening the bankruptcy will normally be entitled to unemployment benefits. This will remedy the economic situation of workers affected by bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e125	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 224]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e140	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e147	If you were on vacation in the United States and were asked how many weeks you have in Norway, I am sure you had blacked five. And then you might have added that there's actually someone who has even more vacation. For example, teachers are free for eight weeks, and we who sit on the Stortinget have a free meeting from June to October – but it is not free. [[Laughter]] You would never have thought that there were any people in this country who don't have the fifth week of vacation, but that's actually it. That's what the Central Party wanted to do, through the bill we're dealing with right now. Almost everyone has five vacation weeks. In a letter dated 12 November to SV, the Council of State Høybråten gives us the numbers that show that 74 pst. has the right to a fifth holiday week fixed in tariffs. This is all in the public sector, which represents about 35 pst. of the country's 2.1 million employees. In addition, all organised with collective agreements in the private sector – 810000 workers, about 53 pst. of those in the private sector — and all those working in enterprises and industries following tariffs. With these employees, it is likely that it is approx. 90 pst. which has a fifth holiday week. Everyone should have five weeks' vacation. It means a majority in the Committee – Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. The rest of the Committee – the Government Parties and the Advance Party – does not think so. They consider that it is too expensive and that it may affect the level of costs in competitive business. In doing so, they show that they have not really been involved in the way things are in the world of work. When 90 pst. has a fifth holiday week, everyone in competitive business has a fifth holiday week. Those who do not have it are those who work in the hotel and restaurant sectors, those who work in the commercial and office sectors, those who are temporarily employed, and those who are not in the negotiating position. In short, those who do not have a fifth holiday week are those who have the weakest relationship with the world of work, those who have the worst paid jobs, and those who have the worst working conditions. We have a long tradition in Norway that the trade union movement first fights for goods, welfare schemes, and then it becomes a law that applies to everyone. The 40-hour week is an example of that. Other parts of the Working Environment Act applied only to parts of the business community and then to the whole, when it was statutory. We have social security rights, and we have the proposal that the trade union movement made in connection with the last salary settlement, that we should have occupational pensions for everyone, something in particular the Government ended up about. So this is a broad tradition, and it's a long tradition we've had in Norway. There are two things that we can draw out, which are not yet legal. It's 37.5 hours a week. We expect that in Norway we have 37.5 hours a week, but still the Working Environment Act says that we have 40 hours a week. Another thing is what we're discussing now, a fifth holiday week, which we don't have in the law yet. We're here to give people a fifth holiday week, but we're voting against today. The reason for this is that we believe that it must be the trade union movement itself that promotes the claim and says that now we believe that what we have fought for should apply to all employees. That's a reason why we're voting against today. I noticed with pleasure – I suppose – that the Council of State wrote to us on 12 November that during the spring the Ministry will review the law, hear the social partners and assess whether the law should be amended. I think that's good. But on the majority side, we believe that the Council of State must come back to Stortinget after he has made this assessment, with an overview of how many there are today not covered by a fifth holiday week. I noticed that the government parties have not been involved in this. That's why I'm going to finish my post by asking the Council of State to explain if you're going to come back to Stortinget. We think that would have been good, because we hope the trade union movement takes the call to promote this requirement on behalf of those who are not currently covered by a fifth holiday week. So we're going to do ours here in the Storting to make sure that this is going to be something that applies to everyone in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e169	The government parties, like a large majority in the municipal committee, do not find it advisable to recommend that we now legislate a fifth holiday week in Norway. The background for this is very brief that negotiations on wages, holidays, working hours or other benefits are about priorities. I believe that the Storting should exercise great caution in regulating matters that are decided by the social partners. When some groups give priority to vacations rather than wages, the majority of this case does not find it appropriate to automatically extend the legislation on the right to a fifth holiday week. The parties who have negotiated such a solution, possibly at the expense of other goods, will have good reason to consider it very unreasonable that the authorities should grant similar rights to the other employees without delay. The second point is the cost. The consequences of such legislation can be very large, especially in parts of the private sector. The cost level of competitive business is already high in relation to countries with which it is natural to compare, in particular with regard to the price of labour. Therefore, it is a correct principle that we still leave the parties to agree to the introduction of a five-week holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e176	The Progress Party disagrees with the proposal of the Central Party. The party to the progress cannot see that during the examination of this case there have been some decisive arguments that strongly advocate the introduction of a fifth holiday week. Nor can the Progress Party see that there are some important social issues that indicate that there is a need to legislate for a fifth holiday week in line with the wishes of the proposers in Document No. 8:60. The Progress Party considers that it is not appropriate to legislate on the right to a fifth holiday week, because this is a matter which should be decided by the social partners themselves, and not by the Stortinget as a legislative authority. Therefore, in my view, whether all workers will be entitled to a fifth holiday week in the future should not even be subject to any assessment by the Storting and the Government, but such assessments should be left entirely sovereign to the social partners themselves. It is therefore a fact today that the social partners themselves have ensured that the vast majority of workers in Norway are already entitled to a fifth holiday week, even though a fifth holiday week is not directly regulated by Norwegian legislation. So when the document points out that most employees today already have the right to a fifth holiday week, that is of course quite right. However, it seems difficult to quantify the exact proportion of Norwegian workers who are actually entitled to a fifth holiday week. The economic consequences of legislating a fifth holiday week for industry and society are therefore so uncertain that for this reason there should be a detention of legislation as the proposers wish. In other words, the central party proposers will be changing the holiday law overnight, almost by lightning, without at all asking for a single study of the possible consequences of such a change for Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. Such an accelerated procedure does not appear to be acceptable or particularly sensible for several reasons. In the form in which the proposal is drafted, as a concrete legislative amendment, without any prior investigation, it goes without saying that it is difficult to relate to the content of the proposal. The Progress Party also points to the position, where it is clear that we cannot support this proposal, but that we do not in principle oppose a fifth holiday week for all employees if the parties themselves, the employees of the companies and the employers, in cooperation and through negotiations, had to agree on this issue. In this case, one must also note that all parties, except the central party proposers, believe that caution should be exercised in regulating matters which should be decided between the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e195	When the Central Party proposes to legislate for a fifth holiday week, it is based on a situation where there is a common perception that one is entitled to five holiday weeks in Norway. We have also registered that everything in 1988 was given in the law to give holiday «up to 5 working days in addition to the holiday period according to Section 5». At the 2000–2001 tariffs, there were many who received a fifth holiday week. The Council of State, in response to case-speakers, has provided additional information that would further strengthen the possibility of law-making because the Council of State has said for the first time that the public sector as a whole has a fifth holiday week; for the second, before NHO's territory, the part is either a collective agreement or a collective agreement, as high as 85 pst. and HSH has stated that in the trade in goods, it is common for the works to comply with the collective agreements, even if they are not contractually obliged by them. I would like to stress that we from the Center Party are happy that the Council of State has warned that he will take a closer look at this in connection with the review of holiday laws. We actually thought it unnecessary when this is quite clear that there are a few remaining. It is important to put in place a fifth week for these few people as this debt, which can be found in the hotels and restaurants sector and in some small businesses. The Workers' Party and SV support whether the State Council wins. They will ask for both an overview of how many people are not actually included per. date, and they will request an assessment of the law. We are also content with that. But I must say that I am surprised at the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party's approach. They paint out some difficult costs by such a decision, and make it appear that everything that applies to justice within the working environment is to be negotiated between the parties. I think it is worth recalling that the Stortinget regularly adopts changes that concern both the employment environment law and social security rights, where it is that most employee organisations, but let us say that the social partners together have found out and become a few about changes in negotiations. Then follow up with the law from Stortinget's side when it's been a while, so it's going to apply to everyone. I thought it was completely wrong to present this as if it were something new to make a proposal like this. What's not so common, of course, is that this is coming from the Storting side, that it's not the government that comes with it. But I have to say that maybe it's a point of light to trace in the comments from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right. For me, it is somewhat unexpected that they focus on what is happening in the negotiations between the social partners. In fact, they seem to be pushing employee organisations ahead of themselves in this matter, pointing to what they have been fighting for. New, interesting possibilities, both from the point of view that now arises, arise from the calls for action against social dumping, and from the hearing evidence that is developed when it comes to the suspension of the labour law selection. In fact, if this round could lead to these parties becoming more responsive in such a context, this proposal has at least led to something, because they have tried to take a position in relation to their views. Finally, I address the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e216	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e219	I will not contribute to the extension of the debate by repeating wise things that have been said about the reasons on the part of the majority in order not to support this proposal. I think it is important that a person shows caution and restraint in regulating relations that are determined between the social partners. In my view, an extension of holiday beyond statutory minimum requirements is a typical well-being that will naturally be a negotiating theme between the parties to payroll business. With that, I have not said that any improvement in the working environment issues should first be negotiated between the parties and then legalised. It's an attitude that neither the Government nor – I think I can safely say – the majority who are behind rejecting this proposal has. But a restraint towards this is the basis for the view that has been gained in the majority vote and that I agree with. I will briefly comment on the question of the review of the holiday law mentioned in the letter to the committee. It is an action that we will follow up. We will gain views from the social partners. Besides, there's nothing special that we're doing that. We do so in all areas where we deal with issues that affect the interests that the parties are set to manage. On that basis, the Government will assess whether there is a need to make changes, and we will keep the Stortinges informed about our assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e228	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 224]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e243	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 224]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e258	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e269	Let me start by recording SV's suggestions. So let me continue to thank you for your cooperation in the committee. There wasn't so much cooperation between them, I had to admit, because after SV had invited to cooperate, the government, with which we had cooperated in 2002, disappeared to the Labour Party and the climate comrades there. In this context, it was a little strange to see Jon Lilletun writing in the Nation on Monday about the environmental problem that will arise in connection with a cooperation between the Workers' Party and SV on the environmental front. But now it is the Christian People's Party itself that makes this mule, in cooperation with the Workers' Party. A few words as case spokesman: I note that the committee agrees on the reduction targets set, and the time horizon they are set in relation to. The Committee also agrees that the promise is only one of several means of achieving the Kyoto commitments, which I recall is +1 pst. relative to 1990 levels. Norway is now on approx. 10 pst., so the challenge is big. The Committee, minus the Progress Party, also agrees that the proposed proposal can provide knowledge and competence for the possible inclusion of an international allowance system in the 2008-2012 Kyoto period. Our new Minister for the Environment, when he joined, said that climate policy was his most important concern. It gave hope to SV, because SV agrees. We can see it around the world among poor countries, Bangladesh and other places, where people lose their lives because one does not take the climate problem seriously and do something about it. Thousands of people are surrounded in poor countries by greenhouse gas emissions. But now there's also another note for this in Norway. In the last few weeks, a more flurry and race and devastating weather in Norway – more weather, one might say – are an illustration that the climate problem is also moving here. In addition, a recent report on the Arctic was presented. The meltdown is now speeding up. The concern of both the Minister for the Environment and Langeland, who was present at the time of this report. With this knowledge and climate as the most important issue, today's decision is a step backwards and is not in line with the climate agreement that SV had with the Government in 2002. So the government is breaking up with SV and going to the Labour Party. I think well on the 9th of March 2000, when the Bondevik I government stood on its feet. The Prime Minister then refused to weaken pollution laws and made it easier to build highly impurised gas power plants. He wouldn't. SV and a collective environmental movement he supported and showed respect for the action that was then taken, because one took the climate problem seriously. Now, four years later, the same prime minister, with the same name, now in the Bondevik II government, builds highly impurising gas power plants on Snow White. He could be in danger of becoming a contractor and a foundation for two to three gas power plants in Norway. Then the Christian People's Party can say, "That's what others have decided, so he just has to do it." Yes, but the last time others decided, he took climate policy more seriously than his own position and left, on March 9, 2000. SV wishes to continue its climate cooperation with the Government. We invited you to that. We had conversations about it. We want to take what the Minister for the Environment said, seriously, that climate policy is the most important thing. But obviously that wasn't enough. Clearly, the Christian People's Party and the Left were not heavy enough in the Government. So on March 9, 2000, one of them got back what one of them had. The Right Party and the Labour Party agreed on climate policy, a climate policy that has the same objective as in 2000: to build more gas power plants. SV is at the level of ambition we had in 2002 with the government party. We have to do our job at home. It's important for SV to get there. We wanted to contribute to the fact that there was no more strong impurity of gas power plants. We wanted to give the gas power plant a CO2 tax on snow-white according to what they have offshore, which could pressure Statoil to do a CO2 handling so that we could use CO2, among other things. to extort more offshore oil, that is, to increase the oil extraction. This is what we wanted to discuss. I note that a still has not defined what kind of regime you should have on Snow White. In Snow White one knows that the same thing is going to be built a so-called CO2 pilot, where a CO2 has to be cleaned just now. So why can't we do the full scale on Snow White, such as SV wants to work with the government party again? That would be offensive. But it doesn't want the Right and the Labour Party, so it won't matter. It might be tempting to say that the CO2 treatment could be added to the 11 billion you have in excess, so no one noticed it. But of course it will not be recommended. All sectors must contribute strongly to reductions. It requires a policy conversion, not just a quota segment. We need an energy policy that has other answers than what the oil industry, the PIL, the LO and the Labour Party say. We need an energy policy that actually helps to reduce emissions and incentives to reduce growth. There is an alternative SV that says that we should achieve 20 TWh new renewable energy by 2010, without building gas power plants. And what must we do in the transport sector? Of course, we need to take concrete action to bring down car traffic, to bring down freight traffic by road and get more on public transport and rail. It's a proposal like Monnar. When it comes to industry, SV has had as a policy that we actually want to give industry a power regime that they can live with and that is long-term. In 1998 we proposed 12.5 cents, but we made demands. We still do. We'll work for an industrial power regime that can provide industry in Norway with long-term energy. So the premise is that one gets a real bet on one, and gets a real commitment to bringing down greenhouse gas emissions. We also want to cooperate with the Government, but they do not. When it comes to offshore, one could also do a lot. Now there was nothing there in the first round. But what if one more strongly did what SV has been working for for for many years, and that we have also helped the government to figure out, what if one was able to phase out part of the gas power plants that float offshore? Then one would suddenly have had a significant CO2 reduction in the electrification. Here's a lot of things we can do, but little is being done. SV here now points to concrete things that would mean that one actually took the climate problem seriously. SV's invitation to the continued climate policy settlement with Bondevik was rejected. Right, Christian People's Party and Left went to the Labour Party. The Labour Party and the Right have re-found the tone from March 2000. So Bondevik would not take responsibility for a climate policy that would increase emissions in the construction of gas power plants. Now we know a lot more, and something needs to be done to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And it's not building gas power plants. Finally, on 9 March 2000, the Christian People's Party and the Left received much praise from the environmental movement. Now, the Christian People's Party and the Left get a lot of praise from NHO, LO, PIL, OLF, Industrial Power Mid-Norway, Natural Power and the Norwegian Petroleum Institute. New friends aren't always the best to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e330	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e335	It's always exciting to listen to Hallgeir H. Langeland, he doesn't save on the confectionery. It's always nice with invitations, but in this case we quickly found out that we had a pretty good dialogue with the Workers' Party, and we came up with good solutions. It's like -- as we agreed when we had a deal -- that we wanted to get a good system. It's here. It's a little narrower, but now there are instruments in all sectors. Does not Hallgeir H. Langeland think that it is really good to have some experience of what you can do in a wider quota system, that you have maintained the means you have had, and that you have got an agreement to make the industry really bet on meeting the requirements they face?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e342	So, as I said in my post, a system – and it was only the Progress Party that disagreed with it – is now in place that allows you to acquire knowledge and competence to be more operationally involved in an international system in 2008. In fact, there is something of what SV has also pointed to as a positive element. But the point is exactly what Onarheim himself raised, that a system is much narrower than the one that was created in comparison with SV, which has much less ambition. In a world where one can see that this is going wrong, the government – and then the Right – has reduced their ambitions in relation to the level of ambition they had with SV. There's the problem with Onarheim. So they don't have the ambitions that Onarheim and I had in the spring of 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e347	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e350	The greenhouse effect is one of the greatest challenges facing mankind. Since the industrial revolution, the concentration in the atmosphere of the major greenhouse gases, CO2, methane and natural gas, which is a nitrogen oxide, has increased by 30, 150 and 17 pst respectively. Until then, concentrations had been relatively stable. Recently, we have received a report from the Arctic Council that underlines the seriousness of the situation. The report notes that the average annual temperature in the Arctic has increased. There are regional variations, but one of the trends is that winter temperatures have increased more than summer temperatures. The heating of the Arctic is leading, inter alia, to: to melt the glaciers and rise the sea level. The report confirms what is now a broad scientific consensus: it is the increased emissions of greenhouse gases, among others. CO2 from coal, oil and gas, which is the cause of most of the global warming. Up against this very rear carpet, there are some people who say, does it mean any difference what we do in small Norway? But to use another picture, in the big context, it doesn't mean much if little Per steals a chocolate at the store. But that doesn't mean it's okay. If everyone were to supply themselves freely with the goods at the store, there would be chaotic conditions. In the same way, we cannot move forward freely in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. Like all other countries, Norway has a responsibility. As one of the richest countries in the world, we also have the best conditions for taking that responsibility. Today, the majority in the United Kingdom is making sure that we take a small step towards reducing emissions. For that we have to be honest: it's not that we can now turn on our chest and say that now we have adopted an early quota system, so now we can relax. But we've gotten a little bit closer to the goal, and it's positive. The Workers' Party has therefore agreed with the government parties. The rapporteur, SV's representative Hallgeir H. Langeland, was disappointed that the government parties have made a settlement with us. The reason why the Workers' Party has concluded this agreement is clear, it is that the Government has made a complete turnaround and is very close to the arrangement proposed by the Workers' Party in the last round. When the government joined in the fall of 1997, the government slaughtered, with then Environment Minister Børge Burnde at the head, the Stoltenberg government proposal in St.meld. No 54 for 2000-2001 on an agreement with the process industry. The proposal for a special Norwegian quota system for the period 2005-2008 was promoted with bragging and bram. Two years after Børge Brende stood on the speaker's chair and said that the Workers' Party has chosen to resign from the process, run a game and act as in the "Keisen's new clothes", which are quite strong words from a government council, the same Børge Brende on 26 March this year was very proud to have reached an agreement with the PIL, that is exactly what we argued for that time. The main point of the Workers' Party is that we should have an ambitious climate policy, we should comply with the commitments of the Kyoto agreement, but at the same time there is no global gain on the industry in Norway, which is one of the least polluting in the world, being laid down or moved to other countries. That is why it was and is important for the Workers' Party that industry should not be given any worse competitive conditions than the industry in the country it is natural to compare with. The Government has now entered into an agreement and an allowance system close to the EU ETS. That is what we think is positive, and we support it. At the same time, the Workers' Party has been made aware of the return of the Government to further evaluations in the wood processing industry, and in the case of cracker plants, which are used for further processing of wet gas. By including these into the allowance system, these actors will be encouraged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to a greater extent. As I said, the proposal is close to the EU ETS directive. We have supported the Government's arrangement with a bilateral agreement with the EU, but assuming that if it does not work, the Government must return to the Storting as quickly as possible in an appropriate way. With that, I recommend that the Members of the Workers' Party support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e386	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e389	Representatives from the Workers' Party have gradually developed a kind of speciality and that is to double communicate in terms of climate policy, emission requirements and the ability to build gas power plants. Environmental conferences show that they want to impose stringent emission requirements and say no to gas power, but when they are met at energy and gas conferences, they are literally ‘full gas’. This is also reflected today by the fact that the Workers' Party does not support the Progress Party's requirement in setting up the same emission requirements as in other countries within the EEA area, while tomorrow, during the budgetary procedure, the Progress Party is in exactly the same position. Isn't it soon that the Workers' Party will clarify what they really mean in these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e399	It is not erased that the Workers' Party operates double communications, because there is no contradiction between being able to impose environmental requirements on Norwegian industry and at the same time facilitating a level playing field – that we should not have more difficult conditions for Norwegian industry than it is in countries with which it is natural to compare. But if there are people who often have double communications, it is the Progress Party, among other things. in this setting, on the one hand, is against the quota system, but on the other hand there is a proposal to include parts that the industry wants to obtain.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e406	I agree with the representative, Kollevoll, that the presentation of the content of the climate quota proposition was an invitation to the Labour Party, but still SV chose to make an attempt, given that we had a deal with the Government before. Mi challenge is: Now, the Labour Party and SV are going to create government, so everything is going well, but if one is going to philosophize or think a little about the fact that it has now become easier to build gas power plants, and that this quota proposition actually makes it easier to build impure gas power plants – and the representative is aware that SV has an energy package, for example. on 20 TWh that don't pre-eminise – by 2010, which one of my options is the most sensible to bet on?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e413	I fully agree with the goal of forming a government, but we now have to win the election first, and start from what the voters say. In the case of gas power plants, I believe SV exaggerates the importance of this quota system, which will last for three years, for decisions regarding gas power plants. Those who are going to take those decisions have to take into account a perspective of at least 30 years, if not more. So I mean, SV exaggerates it. In addition, this quota system will provide a basis for the pollution law to impose technology requirements. We in the Labour Party believe that this is positive, and we support it in the vote that is being taken today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e422	I was a little inspired by Hallgeir Langeland, who talked about forming a government together. In this matter that we are dealing with today, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left stand inexactly quite far apart, even though the representative Konglevoll is trying to tone down the significance of this early quota period. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Konglevoll, if she thinks it would be problematic to cooperate with SV in any government cooperation. The working party is traditionally concerned with the industry's framework conditions. It might be interesting to get some comments on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e429	I can make a lot of comments on that, but what I can say in this round is that the representative Siri Meling actually represents a party that is in government cooperation with two other parties that have a vision against what the Right has on gas power plants. These parties have managed to reach an agreement, and it should guarantee that it will be possible to reach an agreement, whether or not it will be a majority of the Workers' Party, SV and perhaps the Center Party – perhaps even the Christian People's Party can participate in the new government. As I said above all, it will be the voters who decide, and any subsequent negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e437	The President records that government negotiations are under way here in the Chamber. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e442	The threat of global, man-made climate change is perhaps the most serious global environmental threat our planet is facing today. New research results are still being published to support this, most recently the so-called ACIA report, which points out that the ice at the poles melts faster than previously assumed. Although there is still considerable uncertainty in this area, there is every reason to take the climate challenges seriously and be the leader. The climate threat is a global environmental challenge. Greenhouse gases do not have any borders. In addition, climate change is also a poor-rich problem. Climate change poses challenges for the areas and countries affected. The difference is that poor countries do not have the same resources to meet them. In this way we can say that the pollution problems of the rich countries are particularly severe for poor countries. This means that we can also say that the climate challenge is a moral challenge. A global problem must find its global solutions, and that is precisely what is meant by the Kyoto Protocol, which is an internationally committed agreement between countries. The countries that have ratified the agreement have undertaken to significantly reduce their greenhouse gas emissions between 2008 and 2012. In May 2002, a broad majority here on the Stortinget agreed to Norway ratifying the Kyoto Protocol. The Kyoto Protocol enters into force when countries that together account for at least 55 pst. the greenhouse gas emissions have ratified the agreement. This objective was achieved a short time ago, when Russia decided to ratify the agreement, thereby entering into force the Kyoto Protocol from 16 February 2005. The Kyoto Protocol provides for an international greenhouse gas allowance system. This is right-wing pleasure. The right has stated in its programme for the current ageing period that we will use quota trade as an environmental policy instrument both nationally and internationally to address greenhouse gas emissions. Such a system will ensure that we get the most environmental impact out of the crowns being invested and enable us to go further in the fight against climate change. It also relies on the polluter to pay. The currently under-treatment stockpile takes into account the establishment of a national allowance system for the period 2005-2007 before the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol. I am very pleased that the government parties have a continuous majority cooperation with the Labour Party in this matter. Such a broad majority ensures political predictability, which is important for business players. The ambition level for this early allowance period has been that Norway should reduce our greenhouse gas emissions corresponding to a 20 pst reduction. relative to 1990 levels. This was announced in the additional communication to the Climate Change Communication, which was discussed here at Stortinget in spring 2002, and the level of ambition has been followed up in this outburst proposition. I would like to mention three other basic principles which were set out in the supplementary communication and which have led the discussion of this bill: Firstly, it was important for us to establish an early system of allowances as much as possible in line with the system set up by the EU, for reasons of competitiveness for Norwegian companies compared to their competitors in the EU. Secondly, it was important to design a system to ensure that businesses will be viable after the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol in 2008, that they will not have financial problems and, in the worst case, will have to cease their activity during the period of the national quota system due to peculiar rules during that period. Thirdly, it was not least a guiding principle in the case of gas power plants that they should not be given a worse framework for greenhouse gas emissions than is usual for gas power producers in other EEA countries. The right is satisfied that all these principles appear to have been properly observed in the currently under treatment odelstningsproposition. In order to achieve our ambition level, the national allowance system for the period 2005-2007 is built up around two main pillars, which differ somewhat from the leadership set out in the additional communication, but which ensures the most important, namely the result in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in relation to achieving our ambition level. These changes are essentially a consequence of adapting our allowances system to the EU system. One of the main pillars is that companies that do not currently have a CO2 tax will acquire CO2 instruments by becoming part of the early quota system. These are enterprises that do not currently have any incentives to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, and the Right is satisfied that these are now included in the early quota system. Companies currently subject to a CO2 tax, whether wholly or half, have been proposed to be excluded from the quota system during this period. The idea behind this is that businesses already have an incentive through the levy to reduce their emissions, and that by integrating them into the allowance system, we would reduce their incentives in relation to this type of measure. However, it is important, in the interests of competitiveness, that there are no major disadvantages in being outside the quota system. The wood processing industry has pointed out the disadvantage of being outside the quota system, while its EU competitors are within the quota system. I am therefore pleased with the consensus reached in relation to the fact that this issue will be highlighted by the Government reporting back on this in the revised national budget for spring. The second main pillar on which the proposition is based is a binding agreement between the Ministry of the Environment and the Land Association of the Process Industry, PIL, on a 20 pst reduction. in the greenhouse gas emissions of these enterprises compared to 1990 levels. The reason why these holdings are not part of the early allowances system is that similar EU enterprises are excluded during this period. In order to ensure that competitiveness is not impaired as a result of the early allowances system, while the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the processing of the supplementary notification is firm, the Government has instead chosen to enter into a separate agreement with them on the reduction of their greenhouse gas emissions. With regard to the allocation of allowances during this early allowance period, the principle of free allowances – and not selling or auctioning – has been chosen, even though this could give revenue to the country. We support the principle of allocation of free allowances because the most important thing about this period is to have a learning effect on the system as such. The main approach will be to assign 95 pst to each holding. of the allowances free of charge and that the remaining 5 pst. must be covered either by greenhouse gas reduction measures on its own premises, by the purchase of allowances or by the use of the other mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol. In this context, it must be emphasised that the allocation of free allowances is subject to individual treatment, considering the potential of each enterprise for greenhouse gas reduction measures, and the corresponding level of costs of this type of action. This is particularly important with regard to the cracks, and therefore we have also underlined that point in our attitude to Odelstinget. I am pleased with this clarification because different EU countries have chosen a different approach to whether crack cocaine is inside or outside the early quota system. The importance of equality of competition therefore makes it necessary to keep an eye on precisely this category of enterprises. We have long focused on security of supply and the energy balance in Norway, and most people agree that we are vulnerable due to the fact that our electricity supply is largely based on hydropower. Although we have had plenty of rainfall this autumn, the fact that we are exposed to low - water periods does not change. It is therefore gratifying that Naturkraft has announced that they want to use the concession to build a gas power plant on Kårstø. For this industry predictability is important, and therefore it is very positive that the Government has proposed to integrate this type of enterprise into the quota system, in line with what is happening with the corresponding energy plants within the EU. This lead was also added to the additional message. The government has agreed that Norway is linked to the EU ETS through a bilateral agreement. The Minister for the Environment initiated such an agreement earlier this autumn. Although there have been some different signals about the possibility of doing so, it seems that Norway will be able to accept this approach. By having a bilateral agreement, Norway will be freer to design our climate instruments. How to approach the EU after 2008 is not said about it in this proposition. In any form of association, it is important to ensure a level playing field for Norwegian enterprises with enterprises located within the EU. This was a guiding principle for this proposition, and this principle must also be a guiding principle for further work. Under various governments, Norway has had an active attitude to tackling the greenhouse gas problem. This active position has continued in this odelstningsproposition. Finally, I would like to thank the Labour Party for constructive cooperation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e500	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e503	Right's Børge Burnde began this season. He was going to show both his environmental exposure and various things in relation to it, and went into negotiations with SV and managed to get it done. I don't know if Right liked it, but at least the Government was able to get into a partnership with SV. The Christian People's Party and the new Minister for the Environment had to clean this up and do something for all practical purposes. I'm not going to ask you if it seems that it's okay to be in company with the Labour Party, because it seems that I'm a little uninteresting. What I think is more interesting, is how Right looks at the relationship with industry and competitiveness that they kind of angle like that. Is this far-reaching as the Right in Government has been and has been committed to, first to go to SV and then to the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e512	What matters to the Right is that we get an impact on the government's policy. We did that when we dealt with the supplementary message in cooperation with the Socialist Left Party. We didn't find a basis for doing that when dealing with this odelstation proposition. I note that we had a somewhat different approach to the problem in dealing with the supplementary notification, but it is because it was important for the Government to have a broad quota system, but it was also important to get the most up to the EU system. When the EU has now chosen to keep parts of its industry out, we follow up our policies in the supplementary communication by doing so in the early period. The fact that the Workers' Party might have been somewhat hopeless about being outside when dealing with the supplementary message, is so important to us that the Government is getting an impact on its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e519	Minority governments don't know where we have -- that's what we have. We had a climate policy deal with a little reluctant Right, but at least we had it in 2002, and it offensively. What we know is that SV is the party that takes the climate problem seriously and is betting on doing something about it. It's pretty good today, too. I have two questions to the right. I think Right has a very good day today – I think so. Now one of the things that has been achieved is that one wanted to get a pass for then kicking out Bondevik in 2000. Now it will be easier to build gas power plants. Is it not correct that there is now more speed in the matter, now there is a gas power plant? The second question is related to the industrial power regime. SV wants to keep the industry in Norway, we want a regime that allows a cheap flow if the industry does something about its greenhouse gas emissions and some. What does Right mean about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e531	Once again, the right has a good day when we get an impact on the government's policy, and we get that today. So until the accusations that Hallgeir Langeland here comes along with that we had a cooperation, and now this collaboration is broken, among other things. in the case of gas power plants. I would like to remind the representative of Langeland that we agreed that gas used for energy purposes would be included in the quota system. During this period, the Socialist Left had its own comment, which was not part of the majority agreement, in which they considered that the allowances should not necessarily be allocated free of charge. That was the Socialist Left Party's own remark. We did not agree on anything in the processing of the supplementary message. Then it will be a terrible mistake to come and criticize us afterwards because we believe in what we have been saying since the additional message was processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e538	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e541	Unfortunately, today we have another example of the strange, misunderstood and totally misguided environmental policy. Today, Odelstinget will adopt a unilateral national greenhouse gas quota regime at least three years before the rest of the world. Once again, we're going to show Norway that it's going to be the best in the world, and unfortunately, it doesn't matter if there's a few thousand industrial jobs in the drag sucker. Once again, we see that so-called high-noise environmentalists are able to convince naive politicians to take action that seems to be contrary to purpose. It is completely forgotten that Norwegian industry operates in an international market and therefore, of course, needs framework conditions that enable them to compete in such a market. I expect most of us in this Chamber to know that in Norway we have an industry that is completely at the top of the world in terms of both environmental and energy efficiency. It should also be understood that it is important, including environmentally, to maintain this industry in Norway. As long as market demand for products currently produced in Norway remains high, production will be started elsewhere if it is abandoned in Norway. One thing we can be absolutely certain about, and that is that this production is showing up somewhere with completely different emission requirements than what we have in Norway, and a place where you have completely different and far more polluting forms of energy than what we have. What do you achieve with this?Yes, you achieve a total negative environmental impact.I had hoped that the majority in this room would soon have understood this and taken it inwards, while we still have some industry left in this country. The Progress Party was the only party that voted against the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol when the matter was dealt with at Stortinget. We are waiting for the blatant conclusions of the political team to see man-made climate change on the globe. On the other hand, we note that the scientific community is inconsistency in its reasons for experiencing climate change, and what action the world needs to take if it is to be influenced. Many research environments show, for example: to changes in solar activity as a basis for climate change. Climate change has been improperly part of the Earth's cycles for thousands of years, and we therefore prefer to learn even more about these challenges before industry has to take extremely costly measures with uncertain or negative environmental impacts. The Government claims to want to ensure the competitiveness of the process industry and is committed to ensuring that the design of the Norwegian quota system is close to the EU quota system. There are, among other things: initiated negotiations with the EU Commission to establish a bilateral agreement to ensure that Norwegian companies will be able to buy and sell allowances in the EU allowance market. Although industry has had an allegedly good cooperation with the Government, the entire economy fears that the government's choice of form of association is not predictable and a slightly satisfactory solution for industry. There were clear signals from an overall business life during the hearing, stressing the need for competitive framework conditions for our European competitors. The exact same signals also came from the trade movement. All stressed that Norway should have the EU ETS, which is probably best achieved by implementing the EU ETS. It must therefore be a clear premise that any Norwegian quota system must be part of a large international market that does not act as a barrier to competition for Norwegian industry. The government foresees that all emission sources will be covered by voluntary agreements, CO2 tax or allowances trading. It has been decided to exclude all regulated industries from quota trading. PIL and the rest of the NHO organisations wish to maximise their participation in the trading of allowances by also phased into the Norwegian system by Norwegian charging sectors falling within the scope of the EU Trade Directive. For PIL, it was also important that the wood processing industry be included in the quota trade. With today's proposal, for example, Norwegian Forest holdings in the EU are subject to quota trading, while the four factories in Norway are not. This is an unfortunate discrimination. The oil industry and the wood processing industry want to be included in the quota system and are justified, inter alia, by: that the allowance system should be as comprehensive as possible in order to ensure liquidity in the trading of allowances as well as because operators assume that trading of allowances will be the most cost-effective instrument for the implementation of emission reductions. Norwegian cap is already very environmentally friendly, although significant reductions in CO2 emissions can be made, among others. from local gas power stations on the platforms. According to the OLF, the Norwegian oil industry has approx. One third of CO2 emissions per the unit produced in relation to our competitor country. Statoil's CO2 cost on the Norwegian base was 768 million. kr in 2003, while Norwegian Hydro spent 351 million. kr. Project manager for quota trading in Statoil, Nina Koch, said in an interview with Dagens Näringsliv: ‘Norway may discharge its obligations under the Kyoto Protocol by including the offshore installations. There is much more environment for money if a Norwegian system is directly linked to the European ETS Directive’. Political resistance to the construction of gas power plants in Norway is largely justified by CO2 emissions from this power generation. In the first draft EU ETS consultation, the Government wanted to keep gas power plants outside the system, while now including gas power stations as part of the EU ETS. This is justified by the fact that the Norwegian allowance system is thus becoming more compliant with the EU ETS. The political resistance is also expressed by letters from the Minister for the Environment, stressing that the Government can continue to make demands for CO2 management in compliance with the pollution law. This implies that the Government will still have the opportunity to actively accelerate the establishment of gas power plants with CO2 management through the use of the pollution law or actually stop any construction of gas power plants. This can also be seen in a majority comment on page 13 of the vote. This brings us back to the starting point, where politicians want gas power plants with CO2 management, even if such technologies are not fully developed commercially. The Progress Party lost its vote on not ratifying the Kyoto Agreement. However, we will facilitate the use of the mechanisms contained in the agreement to limit the adverse effects on Norwegian industry and to try to provide Norwegian industry with the same framework conditions as the countries with which we compete. Unfortunately, today we are all alone in such a vision. The Progress Party will not be involved in the symbolic and costly instruments proposed in the proposal, and we cannot participate in the strange requirements for CO2 management. We will therefore be voting against this ETS and trading of allowances for so-called greenhouse gas emissions, in their entirety. We propose that the Government refrain from introducing a national early quota area that is distorting competition for Norwegian industrial activities. We also propose that Norwegian industry have the same requirements for emissions of so-called greenhouse gases as those in other EEA countries, and we propose that the implementation of the EU ETS Directive be assessed in order to achieve as much equal a framework as possible. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e624	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e629	The representative, Mr Vaksdal, said that the Progress Party in climate and environmental policy is very alone. He repeated that several times, and I think the rest of us should be happy that they are actually. When I listen to the Waksdal and others from the Progress Party in environmental policy debates, I imagine a driver running consistently on the left while there is traffic coming on the right. It's a risky exercise for the Progress Party, I think, but not least for us others who are on our way, but then on the right side. My question to Øyvind Waksdal is: what is it that the Progress Party actually recognizes that we have climate change beyond what are natural fluctuations? The ACIA report on what is happening in the Arctic areas has a very clear research conclusion that we see the results there most strongly. Isn't there anything that, according to Øyvind Waksdal's opinion, suggests that there are climate change? Besides, finally, does Waksdal think that the PIL would approve an agreement that means that thousands of jobs are included in the draft?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e638	It was pointed out that we were quite alone here, and that is actually the case. We are the only party today that defends the interests of industry and trade unions. There was also mention of risk sports here. Today, it is probably the biggest risk sport in Norway to run industrial activities with the political regime we have. So to the question of whether we accept that there are climate change. Of course, in the Progress Party, we accept that there are climate change on the globe, but we do not yet accept that these climate change are man-made. That's not proven enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e647	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e650	The decisions taken today by Odelstinget are important for Norway, and they are important for international climate change work. The establishment of a national allowance trading system is an important step towards achieving Norway’s climate commitments, as set out in the Kyoto Protocol. The proposition is a direct follow-up to what the Government of the Supplementary Communication on Climate has announced in order to ensure an offensive climate and environmental policy. Climate challenges are major. Although some still have doubts about the impact of anthropogenic activities on the climate, there is still new evidence that the climate is changing. Man-made activities greatly contribute to the maintenance of what may be natural fluctuations in the climate. The consequences of not doing anything can be dramatic for future generations and the living conditions for humans, animals and plants. When we base the precautionary principle, we have to look at the climate problems as a matter that presents a whole world with enormous challenges. In this context, the government shows the willingness to act in a concrete way to ensure that our obligations are met. Through good cooperation with the Workers' Party, a basis for both environmental gains and experience building is currently being laid in an early Norwegian quota system. The Government assumes that non-CO2 tax establishments are to be included in the Norwegian quota system. These establishments represented in 2003 at the lower end of 11 pst. of Norway’s total greenhouse gas emissions. Furthermore, the Government has negotiated a separate agreement with the Land Association of the Process Industry, which ensures that the part of the process industry not covered by the allowances system still undertakes to reduce emissions by the end of 2007. In total, therefore, the overall impact of the ETS and the agreement with PIL will make a necessary contribution to our objectives under the Kyoto Protocol. I would like to express my confidence that the industry on its side will do what it can to achieve the objectives set out in the agreement with the authorities. The quota system between 2005 and 2007 and the understanding of the government with the process industry on emissions reductions means that we keep the same level of ambition from the supplementary climate notification on which this proposition is based. The working party has been involved in the development of an agreement in relation to the present proposition. I would like to express my thanks to the Workers' Party for their active contribution to this. The majority indicates in the timing that the marketable actors within the Norwegian system should be able to trade allowances internationally, initially with the EU and through the use of the green development mechanism. This is important for Norwegian enterprises to be able to operate in a wider market than the Norwegian could be alone. During the Committee's examination, other industries also wish to be integrated into the quota system. This is particularly true of the woodworking industry. This industry is currently paying CO2 tax, and therefore integration into the allowances system will break with the distinction that the Government has emphasised, the distinction between those who pay and those who do not pay a fee. The majority of the Committee has therefore agreed to these assessments, but has nevertheless asked the Government to return to the revised State budget with a general review of the competitiveness and framework conditions of this industry, as well as to the relationship between allowances and charges. Climate change has come, and effective measures and mechanisms are urgently needed to reverse developments. Recently, we have been made aware that development is faster than previously assumed. The situation in the Arctic regions clearly shows the need for action. The polar is melting, the ice is rapidly shrinking back. The recent ACIA report leaves little doubt about the realities. It represents a comprehensive and thorough research that challenges the whole world to fight for climate and for the environment. This report will certainly also be an important part of the debate during the forthcoming round of negotiations on the Argentina Climate Convention. In this context, Norway should be a driver. Of course, I am pleased that the majority endorses the main lines that are now contained in the Government's proposal for the quota law. Regardless of whether someone had to say that the government has turned around or is firmly committed to what it has said before, we have taken a first important step today to get a system that contributes to better environment and reduced greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e679	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e682	Both the representative Rahm and I represent a state where this matter has a very significant significance. It is important to have broad political unity, and I am pleased to be able to reconcile the Labour Party with the Government Party. The representative of Langeland reminded the Christian People's Party of what happened in the context of the handling of the climate communication in 2002. To say that it is important for the government party to choose the right bed partners in these questions. I would have preferred to see that it would have been possible to implement the EU directive before 2008. I have registered that the representative Rahm has stated that this is not desirable now, because Norway can thus ensure that it is still possible to be a horse head in front of the EU in climate action, as he said it. What is the background for such a statement? Is it not the case that the EU is far ahead of Norway in complying with the Kyoto Protocol?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e691	Now, I guess we from the Christian People's Party don't very often choose bed partners, but we choose partners. We do that based on what is appropriate in any situation. The question of whether the EU is further ahead than Norway is likely to have different perceptions. But I feel that when we start a national quota system, Norway is very far ahead, even in relation to the EU and other countries that it is natural to compare with us, precisely because the system we are now creating provides us with a solid background of experience, given that we will later be integrating this into a European system. In view of that, I believe that Norwegian industry, if you use the experience you can now build up in a good way, will be able to benefit from this in a competitive context when we are integrated into an EU quota system in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e699	We see that the government parties and the Workers' Party have entered into some sort of settlement in this case on the design of an early national greenhouse gas allowance regime. But when you hear these here today and read the papers, I wonder if they really understand what they're agreeing about. The Labour Party claimed that the interests of industry have been safeguarded and that power generation based on gas is being opened up, while in the United Nations yesterday a debate was held by the representative of Ramm, who stated with a broad pen that the new climate quota law does not facilitate the construction of ‘polluting gas power plants’, as he called it. I would therefore ask: is it the Workers' Party or the Christian People's Party that has totally misunderstood what this law involves, and what they really agree on?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e704	The debate on gas power is a relatively old debate. I just have to remind the representative, Mr Vaksdal, that the Christian People's Party has also accepted the majority decision that the Stortinget has previously taken on the concessions given. At the same time, however, we have reached agreement with our colleagues in the Right and Left that we need to impose technology requirements on new gas power concessions that may be given in relation to the treatment of CO2. I think in essence the answer to the question from Øyvind Vaksdal is clear in the introduction to Synnøve Kongevoll, where she clarified exactly the same understanding that I have expressed, namely that we should be able to impose technology requirements on new concessions, and that what is the conclusion today, does not represent any easier access to building gas power plants, as it has stated. I believe the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in this context have quite a common understanding, at least here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e712	I think the Christian People's Party describes the reality well, close to the climate problems. But it is when you're going to do something that the problems are reporting – there's nothing new in the policy. I found it interesting, however, that Jon Lilletun in the nation on Monday thought it was quite ‘incomprehensible’ how SV could see its own environmental policy in life when working with the Labour Party. So now it is the Christian People's Party itself who is cooperating with the Workers' Party, and has it become an offensive Christian People's Party-like environmental policy out of that cooperation with the Workers' Party? Point 2: On 9 March 2000, the Environment Movement for Bondevik, who took responsibility for the environment. Today, LO, PIL, OLF, Industriekraft Mid-Norway and Naturkraft are cheering, while environmental movement says that the Christian People's Party is an environmental sink. Does anyone feel that the Christian People's Party has had an impact on its environmental policy in the Chamber today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e719	The answer to the last question is yes, and that's because the Christian People's Party, together with the Right, Left and Workers' Party today, is helping to put in place a system that provides environmental benefits and provides us with an experience background on what's going to happen next. For the first time, we have to put in a system of measures and instruments for the benefit of the environment. This happens without SV support. When I listen to Hallgeir H. Langeland, both his main posts and in a line changer, I can get the impression that the tools are more important than the goal. For us, the goal and the result are the most important, and in view of that, I feel that we have got a good result from what is on the table today. As far as the relationship between the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party is concerned, it's okay as long as we can agree. But I think, as I've said before, that the challenge for Hallgeir H. Langeland is going to be much bigger if we see this red-green alliance after the next big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e726	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e729	When Stortinget dealt with the climate notification with additional notification in 2002, the Centre Party opposed the establishment of a strange, narrow quota system for the period 2005-2007. We thought it would be more appropriate to conclude agreements with the process industry for the period before 2008. This would result in greater emission reductions and contribute more to technological development. Now we can establish that the Government has largely chosen to base itself on agreements with the industry. The Ministry of the Environment and the Land Association of the Process Industry have come up with a two-track system of climate action for the sector. The Ministry and the PIL have negotiated an agreement covering about 15 p.m. of Norway’s total greenhouse gas emissions, while the proposed allowance system covers at the lower edge of 11 pst. of the total greenhouse gas emissions. In agreement with PIL, emission ceilings are set both for enterprises that are part of the early allowance system and for process industries that fall outside that allowance system. It is pleased that the Ministry of the Environment has had a close dialogue with industry and that, in the light of this dialogue and the development of an EU-wide quota system, the Government has found it necessary to propose further changes to the quota system outlined in the supplementary notification on climate. The combination of the allowance system and the agreement means that almost all Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions will be covered by climate action. This two-track system avoids unintended negative impacts on the competitiveness of the process industry, while the environmental performance is expected to be at least as good as that of the quota system outlined in the additional climate notification. The centre batch was concerned in 2002 with the design of the emission requirements in such a way that they would not accelerate the decommissioning or deflagration of the existing process industry. It seems now to be taken care of. But there is one major problem with the government's arrangement: the government will allocate gas power plants free allowances. This will increase the likelihood that the three approved gas power stations will be built without CO2 cleaning. This means new emissions of over 4 million. tonnes of CO2 per tonne; years. This is very problematic both for Norway’s climate commitments and for the global environment. The centre party believes that the technology for cleaning and landfilling CO2 must be in place before gas power plants are built in Norway. Everyone believes that this technology will be ready in a few years. We therefore need to design climate instruments that help to realise the clean-up and landfilling of CO2 from gas power plants. The centre batch is in order for gas power plants to be referred to the purchase of allowances in the market. In this way, it stimulates the construction of gas plants with the lowest possible emissions. It is reasonable that gas power plants should be covered by the allowance system since the EU ETS includes gas power plants. On the other hand, we completely disagree that gas power stations should be allocated free of charge. Gas power stations are accounting for a new sector in Norway. This sector does not have historical emissions to refer to, such as the process industry. If we are to build gas power plants in Norway, the Centre Party believes that the energy efficiency must be high and that greenhouse gas emissions must be cleaned. To achieve this, we believe that gas power plants need to buy allowances instead of being allocated the allowances free of charge. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposal of the Centre Party to amend Section 7 of the legal text.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e763	The representative, Odd Roger Enoxen, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e766	The left is satisfied that one now gets an additional tool in place to reduce CO2 emissions. The left will ensure that all industry that emits CO2 will be covered by a climate action that costs CO2 emissions. Left would stress that a European quota market should only be a complement to national measures. The left is clear that at least half of the emission reductions currently in place for Kyoto obligations are to be addressed nationally. Globally, the world is facing major environmental challenges related to greenhouse gas emissions. Norway has a challenge because these emissions are so closely linked to our prosperity development, based on the extraction and combustion of coal, oil and gas. Left thinks Norway should go to the front to develop zero-emission technology. As an oil producer, we have a special possibility of managing emissions from oil and gas production. The left threatens the combination of strict emission requirements through pollution laws, support for technology development and CO2 taxes are the most effective means of achieving this. Therefore, in principle, the Left believes that all gas power plants, both on the base and on the mainland, have to pay the CO2 tax. In the Sem Declaration, the Government has taken inwards that three concessions have been granted for the construction of gas power plants. The semi-declaration confirms that these works should not have a worse framework than the corresponding works in the EU. Therefore, the Left accepts that the three gas power stations that have been granted a concession but have not been built will be incorporated into the quota system. I would like to stress, in the same vein, that the Government is firmly attached to the Sem Declaration. No further concessions will be granted for old-fashioned gas generating stations. The left is satisfied that the Snow White project is kept out of the quota system, as promised in the Sem Declaration. The transport sector accounts for approx. 25 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. This sector is the key to reaching the commitments Norway has under the Kyoto agreement. The left will have a high rate of renewable and non-emission fuel. That's why the Left is the capture of hydrogen and biofuels. Today, only hydrogen can be produced in such quantities that it can replace fossil fuel and at the same time meet the requirements of reach, comfort and zero emissions of all undesirable pollutants. To get zero emissions in the transport sector, the Left will develop a strategy for the fastest possible transition to hydrogen as a fuel. The left is satisfied that the Government has granted a tax exemption for zero-emission hydrogen cars in line with the current exemption for electric cars. Left mein Norway should take the goal of being the first country in the world where hydrogen vehicle becomes a real alternative for common car users. On the way to the hydrogen society, the Left will bet on biofuels. The left has a goal that all petrol and diesel sold in Norway should have a minimum of 5 pst. biofuels by 2007. Norway has made an international effort to stop global warming by putting a massive effort on clean, zero-emission bioenergy. Mixture of a minor part of biofuels, e.g. 5 pst., in today's petrol and diesel can be done without requiring the conversion of the vehicle fleet. There is no difference in the way the images are marked. In addition to cleaner environment, bioenergy can create thousands of new jobs in future-oriented environmentally friendly industries throughout Norway, especially in the districts. The proposal of the left on bioenergy thus stands in clear contrast with the plans for old-fashioned gas power stations that provide an impeccable environment and few jobs. The left-wing councillors Lars Sponheim and Torild Skogsholm have already taken the lead in facilitating more use of biofuels and research into zero emission technologies using hydrogen as an energy source. The left is an environmental party because we want to secure the life base for future generations. Environmental policy is to address long-term impacts on the environment, although pollution and over-exploitation of resources can bring short-term economic benefits. The left shall be the leading environmental party. We are the party working for a new and forward-looking environmental policy. Left wants Norway to be an environmental policy priority country. Norway should go from being part of the problem to becoming part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e817	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e820	The reason why I draw my line is that the representative from the Left in his statement underlined the need to implement other national measures as well as the agreement and the quota system that we are adopting today. The Labour Party agrees. The Stoltenberg government submitted St.meld. No 54 for 2000-2001, Norwegian climate policy. Here we had a review of a number of sectors and measures that could be implemented. When the Bondevik government joined, it used a big word, that climate policy had until now been far too defensive, and that it would propose a much more offensive climate policy. But apart from the exemption for hydrogen vehicles and a few other measures mentioned by the representative Vihodde in his post, about all the energy of this government has been spent on first proposing an allowance system, then going mass reverse and ending up with something quite different from what it originally proposed. Unfortunately, it has used too little energy to propose new measures. My question is: Is Left satisfied with the government's climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e828	Let me start with the last one. Yes, I'm very pleased with the Government's environmental policy. We have had increased efforts in the area of collective action and protection. We have a massive investment in research, both on bioenergy and on hydrogen technology. For the Left, it's important to see a little bit of long-term and bet on researching alternative forms of energy that allows us to let go of impure gas power plants. In Norway today, we don't actually have a shortage of energy, but we have a lack of water power, and investing in renewable energy, as the water force is, we see positive. In fact, we regard the Kyoto Protocol as the first step. All that was in the plugin message actually supports the Left. So we're very pleased with the Government's climate policy, but of course we want to sit in government to move on and meet future challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e837	SV wanted to continue working with the Government, including the Left, as we did in the context of the climate agreement, because we saw that it was the best alliance to achieve a good climate policy that does something about the climate problem. So we did that in 2002. Today, in cooperation with the Labour Party, one adopted a climate policy for which all those who forreiner applaud. Those who work against pollution, environmental movement, say it's one of the worst things they've ever done. Nevertheless, the representative Vihovde stands here and says that the Left is a leading environmental party, when one lays the foundation stone for new, impure gas power plants. One builds impurity gas power plants on Snow White. Is this environmental policy? Can the Left give SV advice on how to, when SV comes into government, avoid getting as black hands as left?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e844	I have, at several times, split the string with the representative Langeland where he claims that the left does not go far enough. Then I have always said – and I actually mean that – that the Left is involved in delivering on environmental policy. We deliver results. It is interesting to see the level of ambition that Hallgeir L. Langeland has when he is about to enter into a government cooperation at the next crossroads. In fact, I believe that the Left Party can be happy that the Left Party has been there. The Left has brought both the Right Party and the Workers' Party with them on important environmental measures. We have a level of ambition, perhaps in common with the Socialist Left Party. It's not a violation of what's there today, but we might use other tools, both the quota system and the PIL agreement. I can promise the representative of Langeland that if the PIL agreement is not followed up, if the industry fails to fulfil its obligations, we will have to look at other instruments. But the totality of what lies here shows that one achieves the level of ambition that we have been among those with the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e853	The representative Vihovde from the left says that yes, we deliver results in the left. Yes, today we have a result in the form of a gas power plant that purifies. That's the result of today's setup from the Left. Then one also says that this is good environmental and climate policy. Yes, why does the environmental movement complain on the Left and Christian People's Party? Why did the environmental movement of the Christian People's Party and the Left boast when they started an offensive climate policy? This does not hang on to anything. The representative from the Left agrees that SV probably has something to learn from the Left so that we don't end up in the same dilemma that Left has done, so that we can actually lead an offensive environmental policy. I think we have to do that by making a good choice and getting good environmental results. But what advice will Left give to SV so that we do not get into the same situation as they do?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e860	As far as I'm concerned, we were probably in agreement with the Socialist Left Party that gas power stations were going into the quota system. It is wrong, what the representative Langeland claims when he says that a now opens up to impure gas power plants. We use pollution laws, and we impose strict technology requirements both for the allowance system and for what we do in relation to these gas power plants. Of course, if we were to get our highest wish fulfilled, we might not have them. We would have a zero-eject technology right away. But demands are made that there is a right step in the right direction when it concerns the environment. So the representative of Langeland says that environmental organisations are not some of us. No, we're not always completely involved with environmental organisations, but we're delivering. In fact, my impression is that the environmental organisations in Norway are very pleased that the Left is in government, and that the Left is in favour of good environmental policy in all the areas where we have invested and achieved a positive impact. I hope that they will still see that we are taking great steps on the right road.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e867	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e870	It is not the first time we are discussing climate challenges and policies in this room. We've done that many times before. In all debates, there have been a broad majority who take the climate challenges seriously. I'm glad. With this an important basis has been laid for further work on reducing climate change emissions. Of course, for the Workers' Party, Norway is going to comply with all the international environmental agreements we have concluded. There is no doubt that we are taking the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Agreement seriously. The Labour Party regards the Kyoto Agreement as a good tool for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The agreement opens up so-called flexible implementation mechanisms, such as cross-border trading of allowances. In this way, the most cost-effective measures to be implemented in an international context can be implemented first. In addition to this, countries must implement national measures and, of course, the Labour Party of Norway must take part in its national reduction. The step we are taking today is just a small step towards the goal of a long-term reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The system is narrow and covers only a small part of the Norwegian emissions. A large sector such as the offshore sector is excluded. It is also uncertain how EU trading in allowances is going to be. When the Labour Party has nevertheless chosen to support the Government in this matter, it is because the Government has led a u-turn in its climate policy. As the Labour Party sees it, it's an advantage for the environment, and it's an advantage for the industry. When the Climate Communication was being discussed in Stortinget about two years ago, the Labour Party wanted an agreement solution with the industry. We all saw then that an early national quota system was not a good enough tool. The fact that the Government has chosen to follow the Labour Party by concluding an agreement with the industry is therefore one of the main reasons why the Labour Party is now cooperating with the Government Party. The Labour Party wants us to have a viable industry in Norway. A clear premise for this is that our industry has almost the same framework conditions as industry in the EU. Therefore, it is also important that the quota system we are adopting today harmonises as much as possible with the EU's quota directive. This is the case a bit on the road. Now it is up to the Government to make good enough agreements with the EU, so that Norwegian industry can participate fully in EU quota trading. There is a great deal of uncertainty here, and I would like to remind you that the industry has seen it as a clear premise that they must be fully involved in the EU's trading of allowances if they are to comply with the agreement concluded with the Ministry of the Environment. Another provision to further develop the Norwegian industry is that one has access to sufficient power. For this reason, in the Labour Party, we have been quite clear that we want to use some of our natural gas for power generation, and that gas power plants in Norway should have the same conditions as elsewhere in the EU. The fact that the Government is now adopting gas power plants in the allowances system, as they do in the EU, is an important signal to those who have been granted a concession, have applied for a concession or have plans to apply for a concession. However, it is important to be clear that the quota system we are discussing today should only be in force for three years. During these years, in addition to the Snow White power plant, maybe only the gas power plant on Kårstø will come into operation. But the most important thing about the inclusion of gas power plants in the allowance system now is the introductions from 2008 onwards. In the work on this matter, the Labour Party has been occupied by the woodworking industry. The government has chosen to keep this industry out of the quota system, although the same type of industry is part of the EU's quota system. We think it would be best if the woodworking were part of the Norwegian system. Nevertheless, the Labour Party accepts the government party on the Stortinget, that they have met us and instructed the Government to come back to this issue in the revised national budget for 2005. And then we'll see what it ends with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e887	The representative of Langeland was surprised that the government parties did not accept his invitation to cooperation. He shouldn't be so surprised. I am a little curious about what his party leader said when we debated the additional message for the climate communication. I refer a little freely to memory: «SV is pleased with the good cooperation on climate communication, but I can look at the body language of the representative Onarheim that it is not of love.» Norway has ratified the Kyoto Agreement. This leads to strict requirements for our climate emissions. The Kyoto Agreement provides for more mechanisms to achieve emission targets. One of these is trade in climate quotas. The underlying principle is that the most cost-effective measures within the quota area should be put in place first. To ensure that this happens where there is the cheapest, regardless of where the emissions may be located, a system is established where the industry can buy and sell allowances. Since the Kyoto Agreement will only take effect from 2008, the Government will launch a national allowance system for some sectors. The principle used by the Government is that all activities should be covered by a climate policy instrument. For the process industry, the Ministry of Environment has concluded an agreement with the Land Association of the Process Industry on a reduction of approx. 20 pst. the emissions of holdings, based on 1990 emissions. For several areas, including the petroleum industry, the CO2 tax is the main greenhouse gas instrument. Therefore, the activities with a CO2 charge are not included in the allowance system at this stage. If our national quota system is to work, it must be linked to the EU system. It will make the geographic market for allowances larger than if it had been an isolated Norwegian system. In the Climate Communication and the Climate Action Communication, the Government outlined a broader quota system. A majority of the Committee gathered at the time on a note that the quota system had to be developed in close cooperation with the industries most affected. On the right, it is a pleasure to note that this has been followed up, among other things. through the agreement I mentioned with the process industry. Furthermore, the decision to close the ETS to the EU ETS is well-satisfied. The right is aware that there is a discussion about whether trading allowances is part of the EU Directive, and we expect this to be clarified in the near future. There are industries that would have liked them to participate in the quota system. This applies, inter alia, to: the wood processing industry. This industry is highly competitive, and for example: Norwegian Forest has a broad international activity. Although this industry only has half of the CO2 tax, it is not included in this round. In this regard, a broad majority calls on the Government to come back to the Storting with an assessment of the general framework conditions of the wood processing industry, including quotas and CO2 tax, in relation to European competitors. The proposed quota system over the period 2005-2007 will cover slightly more than 10 pst. by greenhouse gas emissions and thereby becomes a bit narrower than the system outlined in the additional climate notification. I think this is right, because we also have the ministry's agreement with the process industry, which will give about. 20 pst. reduction from this industry, based on the 1990 level. It is also very gratifying that gas power stations come under the quota system. It clarifies in a good way the framework conditions for the concessional gas power plants. However, the Melkøya power plant related to Snow White is treated as agreed in the Sem Declaration. The right supports the proposal that the Ministry will allocate to industry, free of charge, an amount of allowances corresponding to approximately the same amount. 95 pst. of the emissions of the undertakings subject to allowances. It is important that the proposed emission reduction measures do not put our industry in a worse competitive position than its competitors in Europe. A key policy issue has been whether undertakings subject to allowances shall also be subject to normal emission permit procedures. The Government has proposed that CO2 emission allowances be granted to those responsible for greenhouse gas emissions. However, there will continue to be opportunities for authorities to impose efficiency requirements and technology requirements in an emission permit to limit emissions. An important reason why Right-wing support for the proposed allowance law is the ability of companies to gain experience in the purchase and sale of allowances. This will facilitate the transition to the wide quota system of the Kyoto Agreement from 2008. However, it is important that the Government clarify as soon as possible the assumptions and form of connection to the system from 2008. Predictability is important for enterprises. That the Progress Party does not need any quota system is quite natural, when they really welcome the greenhouse gases. It is gratifying that there is a broad majority in this case. Greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced, and this law uses a number of instruments to achieve this. There is an ambitious goal in this setting. At the same time, the majority agree that we need to ensure that the measures implemented take into account the viability of businesses. The majority, with the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, ensure the necessary predictability for industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e925	Globally, the climate problem is the greatest environmental challenge we face. The climate changes are currently solidly documented in a new research report, focusing on the Arctic. The report shows that the Arctic temperature rises so fast that it will have serious consequences for plants, animals and humans. The dramatic increase in temperature in the northern regions will in turn affect the global environment. Climate change comes largely from human activities. In the context of the process of the summer 2002 supplementary communication on climate change, the Storting agreed to develop a greenhouse gas allowance trading system from 2005. It is gratifying that the bulk of the population now joins the government's bill on climate quota law. The bill is an important piece of government's offensive climate policy. Over the period 2005-2007, the quota system will cover CO2 emissions from industry which are currently having little incentive to limit these emissions. With the quota system in place, Norway will be one of the few countries with an almost complete greenhouse gas reduction system. Through the quota system and an understanding between the Ministry of the Environment and the Land Association of the Process Industry, PIL, we will see reductions in emissions. The quotaable activities will gather fewer allowances than they will need to cover their emissions. Therefore, the companies must either implement emission reduction measures or purchase quotas on the market. The understanding with PIL also ensures that the part of the process industry that is not included in the quota system during this round will reduce greenhouse gas emissions. PIL is committed to reducing emissions from the process industry, excluding gas refineries and oil and gas landing terminals, by 20 pst. in 2007 compared to 1990 levels. Gas refineries and landing terminals have had a strong growth in emissions as a result of increased activity. In line with the additional message, this growth should be taken into account when determining the cumulative amount of allowances. With the proposed allowance system and the understanding of PIL, the Government meets the ambition level of the additional message. The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party seem to forget that the majority of the majority agreed upon the adjustment of the cumulative allocation in relation to extensions and closures of production of contingent activities when submitting the supplementary notification. It is estimated that the quota system, along with the understanding of PIL, will reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway by just over 1 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2007 compared to emission projections without new measures. This reduction corresponds to average emissions from about 400,000 passenger cars. In addition, setting up an early allowance system will provide us with important experience of a tool that will be central to further reducing greenhouse gas emissions, both nationally and globally. Climate quotient elova will not make it easier to build unclean gas power plants, as some have claimed. In the same way as today, technology requirements could be imposed in the form of CO2 management requirements in emission loops for new gas power plants. Technology requirements are an equally effective means of preventing the establishment of unclean gas power stations as emission limit values. The quota list is in line with the Stortinget's 2002 commitments developed in close dialogue with industry. The government wants Norwegian companies to be able to participate fully in a European quota market. I have therefore taken the initiative to negotiate with the European Commission with a view to establishing a bilateral agreement for the period 2005-2007 on the mutual recognition of allowances between Norway and the EU ETS. The Commission responded positively to the Norwegian request. At the same time, the Commission has indicated that a desire for the ETS Directive to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement in the longer term, preferably from 2008. This means that the Commission and the Norwegian Government are certain that a connection between the two systems is desirable. The government pursues an offensive climate policy that, in addition to emission reduction measures, includes the development of new technologies, changes in production and consumption patterns and a driving role in international negotiations. With climate quotas, we are introducing a new tool in climate policy. At the same time, we have had to set requirements according to the pollution laws. Overall, this provides a strengthening of climate action and policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e957	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e960	I'm sure the Christian People's Party doesn't like changing parties so often, so I won't ask. But I want to ask you something about the industry. One will both buy and sell allowances on the European quota market, in line with what the EU industry will do from next year. Can the State Council confirm that it will do so? Otherwise – if this is not the case – how does the Council of State view this, if the agreement with PIL is broken? What kind of alternatives do the government and the government have to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e968	As I came into my post, the Government strongly wishes to cooperate with the EU's quota system. The dialogue we have had with the European Commission suggests that they also want cooperation from 2005 to 2007. There are leaders from the European Commission who want us to implement the EU directive from 2008. The Norwegian Government has not agreed. As I see it, everything is at the ready for cooperation in the period ahead, but the Government stands by its policy, that we do not want to implement the EU directive. It's because we want to have a chance to lead a national climate policy that's adapted to our circumstances. It will also be the best for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e975	In presenting the legislative proposal to introduce an early national greenhouse gas allowance regime, the Government is showing its true face in environmental policy. It is obvious that the total emission of these gases will be reduced. What is important and overwhelming is that in Norway we should again be the best in the class – costing what it will cost. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether he does not see at least the environmental value of keeping industry in Norway, and why, with full consideration, he is now creating even greater problems for industry with its peculiar emissions requirements – which endanger thousands of Norwegian industrial workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e982	We should be among the best in the class of environmental policy. This is a problem: the climate challenge is created by the rich, western countries. It is therefore quite natural that these countries are also taking responsibility for this. Who will be the biggest losers if we don't have the power to address the climate challenge? Well, it'll be the poorest countries again. Once again, the African countries will be the losers. We must therefore be active in relation to this policy. We have a system that takes care of the industry, but Norway is going to be a leader. We have in front of us climate negotiations in Buenos Aires. Norway shall be one of the countries leading and showing the way in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e991	I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment has taken up the values of solidarity – I am a little lacking in the article. That's exactly what we're talking about when it's about greenhouse gas emissions: it's the poor that once again loses if you don't do enough. That is exactly why it is important that one also shop at home. That's why it's important to do something active yourself. This is where the Christian People's Party has now changed parties and gone with the Workers' Party. The Christian People's Party is concerned that SV will become an environmental scourge for the Workers' Party and LO in a new government. Then it's tempting for me to ask if not Councillor Hareide can share his experience with SV when it comes to what it's like to be this hostage, so we don't have to do the same thing. The other thing I think it is important to clarify – because there is a lot of confusion out there and going – is that SV wants to help to avoid building more highly impurifying gas power stations than there is on Snow White. But it is well – I ask the Minister for the Environment – that one could now risk having to lay the foundation stone of a highly impudent gas power plant on Kårstø?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1000	It is right that the representative, Mr Langeland, says that we have changed partners in this matter. But we are responsible for the same policy. The tutorials that were added to the additional messages are set. We have a level of ambition that was presented in the plugin message. We are now taking the lead in the motion for a resolution on climate allowances. It is such that the new climate quotient is not making it easier to build gas power plants with old technology. That is why, with great joy, a collective government is putting forward this law, a law that takes care of the environment in the best possible way. We make clear demands through the pollution laws. We come with a new tool in climate policy. Overall, this strengthens climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1007	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Even if it is not satisfactory, seen with SV's eyes, there are certain positive elements – as I also said in my main post as case-speaker – linked to the fact that one will have to try out an international system that one can then join from 2008. But I don't quite understand that one can be so happy – when one is now in the opposite situation of one was in the spring of 2000. Then the environmental movement and SV showed great respect for a government that went off because she thought that going in to build gas power plants was so serious that she wouldn't be on it. Now, a strong impurity gas power plant on Snow White and cannot put its foot down for impurity gas power plants on Kårstø. Or am I wrong? Is it not true that the Minister for the Environment can actually be the one building the Kårstø plant?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1016	I must remind the representative of Langeland that his government partners, the Labour Party, gave the concession to Kårstø. The government made it clear in the Declaration of Accession that it wanted the concessions granted by the Workers' Party government to stand. But the debate back in 2001 was about whether a person wanted to participate in and weaken the pollution laws, and we wouldn't agree with that. So we are introducing a new tool in climate policy today. We get a quota system, and we don't weaken pollution laws. It will make us collectively have a strengthening of climate policy, and it is important for the Government. We would have liked to see a collaboration with SV. This is why we presented the same statements as in the plugin message. There was no response, even though we continued to do just what we had been told about through the 2002 additional message in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1023	As the Council of State said in its statement, he has called on the EU to negotiate a bilateral agreement. Afterwards, there has been no concrete clarification, except that the EU has made it clear that the Trade Directive is EEA-relevant and that Norway needs to implement the Directive by 31 December 2007. When it comes to possible negotiations on a bilateral agreement, there is still no clarification from the EU regarding the negotiating mandate, progress plan, etc. On the industrial side, it is a premise that full-fledged trading of allowances can start in 2005. Can the Government assure the Storting that the bilateral agreements will be in place during the first half of 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1032	The government is actively ensuring an agreement in relation to its EU ETS and we have had a close dialogue with the EU. I have also met with the Presidency of the EU, which has given a positive signal to reach an agreement between the EU's quota system and the Norwegian quota system. All indications suggest that this could be resolved between 2005 and 2007. The discrepancy is about the type of connection the Norwegian ETS should continue, whether it should be through a bilateral agreement or whether Norway should join the ETS Directive. We would like the Norwegian system to continue to connect through bilateral cooperation with the EU. We think it would be best, but I can reassure the representative Oppebøen Hansen from the Labour Party that everything indicates that we will have an agreement with the EU for the period 2005-2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1039	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor after that have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1044	The debate is coming to an end, and as a case-speaker – and as an SV, I must also be allowed to say – I need to sum up a few points. When it comes to what Onarheim said, the body language in 2000, I also noticed that it was very complicated for the Right to cooperate with the environmental party SV. It was demanding, but one was able to do it. I find that Onarheim has a completely different body language today, so he enjoys better in the company he is currently in. Then it is more worrying – if we are to stay in the field of body language – that the Christian People's Party and the Left seem to be going straight ahead, despite the fact that they have changed positions – they do not have the same concern as Onarheim had in 2000. Because there is no doubt that what has happened is that the Left and the Christian People's Party have moved their positions and are significantly weakened by the threat of climate policy. It shows the fact that they are now with the party that actually wanted to push the Bondevik I government to go off. You did it. Today, they are together with the parties who did this, and talk about their offensive climate policy. We can also observe that the gas power lobby is happy. Those who represent NHO, LO, PIL, OLF and others, have a good day today, while environmental movement does not have it – the opposite of what we had on March 9, 2000, when Bondevik I left. And then I find that we're now getting a climate quota system, it's going to be agreed. And SV will of course be involved and work to improve it in the next round, when we were now unable to improve the proposal from the Government. We think it would be harder for SV to be constructive in the position now, when the party change that has been implemented, so open-minded can lead to a worse climate policy. Then this challenge will probably be bigger than SV would want. This is not exactly what the Minister for the Environment said, that SV would not cooperate, on the contrary. We did not receive feedback on our invitation to cooperate. And then the government broke out. SV is ready to address the many challenges that are, in the future, not least in the energy sector, with an alternative, renewable energy policy, and with an industrial policy that ensures that industry is in Norway, but where there is a framework for living. As you can see, it is not a very good day for environmental policy and climate policy in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1060	The debate is coming to an end. Only a few brief comments, especially in relation to SV and Hallgeir Langeland: That is quite right – the Christian People's Party is quite rabid today, just as the government colleagues Left and Right are. It's because we're actually a little proud that this government is putting in place a system -- for the first time -- that creates a better environment, gives us experience and at the same time ensures that we get the emissions of CO2 down. The majority, with the exception of SV, stand behind this broad agreement. That would have been an advantage. The question of changing partners, which has been a strange part of this debate, is relatively little important, in relation to the challenge we have in climate policy – it would have been okay if we had focused on it. I registered that Hallgeir Langeland asked for advice in relation to being a hostage. Then we can say, we have no experience in being a hostage. But when Hallgeir Langeland asks for advice, it must be an expression that he expects to be. I think Hallgeir Langeland will experience that the world is not as simple or full as black-and-white as what he can express when he stands all alone. At the moment he will take responsibility, he will feel that the picture is a little more complex. What is important at the end of the debate on the part of the Christian People's Party is that we deliver the policy we have previously said we stand for. We maintain the level of ambition, we do not weaken the pollution law, we do not make it easier to build what Hallgeir Langeland defines as highly polluting gas power plants. We deliver the item that we said in the additional message that we would deliver. We are pleased that the great majority in the Great Britain joins it, regardless of who had to think what about who has turned or not turned. What we're recording is that Hallgeir Langeland is on the sideline of such an important question, and is not part of this broad agreement. It would have been an advantage – for SV – not least in relation to the alliance he sees he should once enter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1076	I wasn't going to take the word again, but when the leader of the committee spends 3 minutes on the case manager and on SV, I almost have to replicate a little. But I can make it short. I find that the Christian People's Party in this matter was a rake in 2000 – they were together with environmental movements and would not weaken the pollution laws so that it was possible to build gas power plants. I note that on 8 December 2004 the LO, the Land Association of the Process Industry and the oil and gas industry, are working together to facilitate the construction of gas power plants that others have decided – but one is going to lay the foundation stone. For me, it is a shift of line without equal in environmental and climate policy, and despite the fact that one says that climate policy is important. It is therefore worrying that the Christian People's Party is making this so easy – that everything has now become so great. To stop and not push out the meeting: I heard that I didn't get any advice on how it was to be environmental guessing, as the Christian People's Party is now. I take note of that, and I assume that you don't want to tell me what this is like, even if it hurts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1085	Brother Yngve Rahm has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1088	To what Langeland said about being a hostage, I just want to replicate: we don't have experience in being a hostage, so we can't give advice. But I'm recording that Hallgeir Langeland is still asking for it. It must be because he expects to be a hostage – but it is not our position today. Behind the attitude that we boldly present today, and that gets a majority, there is a collective government that stands up. Now we have taken some important steps forward that I think we can build on in relation to further challenges in the climate issue. To the question of a new line: I'm a little surprised that until today Hallgeir Langeland jumps over the decisions that are actually in the Storting from before, jumps over the concessions given, and the positions that both the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left have, starting from the Sem Declaration, at that point. There is nothing new about this, based on what we have said before, and what we have as anchoring in the Sem statement. This is a continuation of the policy pursued by the Co-operation Board all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1099	To the challenge that SV sees, close to new government: Of course, it's a big challenge, very big. There is a very big difference between SV's energy policy and the Swedish Labour Party's energy policy. Therefore, SV takes this challenge seriously. But I have to say that I think it's very easy when the Christian People's Party doesn't realize that they have to sit like a hostage. I can name a case by case where the Christian People's Party now means something else. The Barents Sea is an example, which has an open one, which has the Christian People's Party drifted away and thinks otherwise. In relation to gas power plants, the Christian People's Party meant something else in Bondevik I – now they think it's okay – to build it on the Milky Island. In relation to environmentally friendly alternative energy, SV has a clear profile of 20 TWh without gas. There was a Christian People's Party more in line before. In relation to a big effort on environmentally friendly relations, SV has a completely different profile than the Christian People's Party. There we were more on the line before. I can calculate a number of things that go in that direction, and that show that the Christian People's Party's environmental profile is monthly, not least today. That's exactly why the Christian People's Party gets shut up from environmental motions. One thing is that it doesn't matter to them to be told by SV, and that they don't want to talk about how this feels, etc. But I have to say that I thought they took environmental movements more seriously, they got criticism from there too, but they just chose to germinate from it and say that SV is completely lost track. Then I thought that one is moving far from reality. Then one can just look out and see what the environmental movement says about the Christian People's Party today, compared to what they said on March 9, 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1108	It has been highlighted by this chair – and not by any representative from the government party – that Norway is at the forefront of climate policy. I'll agree with that. Now we get a new tool in climate policy, we get a quota system. We already have a CO2 tax of the highest in the world. We have an agreement with the process industry. We have an HFC/PFC charge, so we get a total tooling device before the climate policy that is unique in world affairs. It should be, because we should be of the front line of climate policy. That's why, with pride, a collective government is helping to present this. So we are putting forward a new tool for climate policy. But we want to keep the ability to set technology requirements through the pollution laws. It's precisely because we want to keep track of the potential of new gas power plants. It is an important environmental policy area. Requirements shall be imposed on the new gas power plants for CO2 handling until we have a system in line with the Kyoto Protocol. For this reason, the representatives of all the government parties can stand straight in front of environmental policy. What becomes paradoxical to me is that we put the leadership of this policy, together with SV, in the supplementary message. We maintain the level of ambition for reduced emissions, which we also provided in the additional message. We do not conduct a policy that opens up to new gas power plants, through the laws we put forward here. Therefore, it should have been very easy for SV to be in favour of this law. I understand that the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland is busy that the oil industry and some others have their celebrations. Yes, I am glad that that part of the industry also sees the importance of a restrictive and good climate policy. I'm glad. We need to build environmental alliances far beyond those that normally promote environmental policy. That is why I am very pleased to say that we have got a new tool in climate policy that will bring together an improvement in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1125	I'm not going to go out the debate either. But I took the floor now because it surprises me that the Council of State in this way manufactures Norway with a glory in climate policy. Many of us who have had posts today have started with how big environmental challenges we have. Then I think it's surprising that the Council of State is not more humble in admitting that this is a step in the right direction, but it's just a small step. Nor is it the case that we are very far ahead of all other countries — on the contrary. We have adapted to a proposal from the European Union. With regard to the registration mechanism, the United Kingdom, for example, has been much further ahead of Norway. The fact is that the government has gone a long way, from the proposal they originally made, which was then so wonderfully much better, until they have gone about the same thing as the Workers' Party suggested. So the Council of State is going to hold up Norway and this government that is so fantastically much better than any other country and any other government, I think I'm witnessing a little lack of humility in relation to the challenges we're actually facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1137	I find that the Christian People's Party has got new partners, and that they are made up of comrades who are not exactly aware of taking the climate noise seriously. SV is today, as in 2000, with the same partners that we had then. So it doesn't do the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1142	I'm also going to be very short. I just want to say that the government is responsible for the same policy as when we presented the supplementary message, the same level of ambition, and that is why we are proud to present this law. I am pleased with the connection she has received, and that the Workers' Party is in favour of the promise. I would like to comment on what Mr. Synnøve Konglevoll has to say, because I think that is important. There are major challenges in climate policy. That's why Norway should be in front. Norway should be one of the countries facing a more ambitious climate policy also internationally. But I also want to say that within the tools we have today, Norway is in the forefront. We have one of the most complete tools. Today, the representative Synnøve Konglevoll has been helping to make even better use of the fact that we have a quota law. But there are many steps to go. The Kyoto agreement is just a first step on the road. We need to take more steps to achieve the long-term goals. The Kyoto agreement provides for a reduction of 5 pst. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates that in the future we will have to reduce not 5 pst. but 50 pst. That is why we also need to take new steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1151	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 225]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1159	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1189	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1202	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Socialist Left will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1216	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1223	During the debate, Mr Meltveit Kleppa put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Law No. 29 April 1988 21 in the case of leave, the following is amended as follows:§ 5 is replaced by the following:The employer shall ensure that the employee is given leave of 30 working days each year.§ 10 is replaced by:The employee is entitled to holiday pay from the employer with 12.3 pst. [[1]] [[2]] of the holiday money base [[(see section 4.4). No 1)]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1267	There should be 4 voices for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1274	The correct figures will then be 66 votes in favour of the Committee's position and 4 votes in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1295	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 2-4, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 6, from Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1344	This is the first time that we are voting on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 3 is replaced by the following:§ 3 The Act concerns CO2 emissions in the context of:(a) refining of mineral oil(b) coke production(c) production and processing of iron and steel, including calcination and sintering of iron ores) cement, lime, glass, glass fibre and ceramic products. However, the law does not apply to emissions:(a) from the combustion of biomassb) from the incineration of hazardous waste and municipal waste (c) which are subject to a charge following the annual decision on the CO2 tax taken by the Storting.§ 8c shall be replaced by the following: If the emissions from activities referred to in point (a) after 1 January 2001 but before 31 December 2007 have been significantly reduced as a result of significant changes in the nature or extent of the activity, this shall be attributed to the allocation. [[emissions covered by this Act]] Changes resulting in increased emissions will not affect the allocation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1393	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 7 shall be replaced by the following:§ 7 The allowances shall be allocated for the period from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2007 free of charge to the establishments falling under points (b) to (e) of Section 3 of the Act. [[allocation method]] Establishments falling under Section 3(a) will not be allocated allowances free of charge but will be required to purchase the required number of allowances in the market.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1736	The party of progress has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1750	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Progress Party to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1764	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08-lower.ana.ud1807e1775	There is no record.
