ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e32	The representatives Åslaug Haga and Torbjørn Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Rolf Terje Klungland from 2 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Mette Gundersen, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e61	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e66	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e71	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e90	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President proposes that the representative, Jan Simonsen, be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e101	St.meld. No 39 for 2002-2003, Ei just to Løst, is a response to majority remarks in the Budget-inner. S. No 12 for 2001, 2002 and 2003, where a Joint Committee asks for a communication on cultural schools. The message we have received deals with the cultural schools, but it also has the sub-title: ‘On art and culture in and in relation to primary schools’. Here the report discusses widely art and cultural experiences in schools in a positive and good way. In particular, as the majority do, I would like to highlight what the communication says that art and aesthetic learning processes must permeate the educational activities of the school, which the majority will elaborate on when the notification of the ageing message based on the recommendation of the Quality Committee will be addressed later. On the other hand, the analysis of the Eikemo Committee in relation to the objectives and the economy has not been discussed in the notification, and the parties therefore consider that the notification is not a sufficient response to the Stortingen order. The message offers little vision for the cultural schools and the unique school type of cultural schools. Despite low state subsidies, many municipalities have made a lot of efforts to offer children and young people varied opportunities through cultural schools. What started as music schools has evolved into exciting cultural schools in many municipalities, where music, visual arts, theatre and dance are the pillars. It is quite unique that 93 000 children and young people from kindergarten to high school used a cultural school offer in 2002. 13.1 pst. of the country's primary school students attended the cultural school. But the goal that the Stortinget today confirms that a cultural school offer should be given at least 30 pst. by primary school students, far from being reached. The cultural schools represent a school class in which students can participate on their own assumptions. There are no recording requirements, no exams, and there is a training offer in the field of arts, where students will experience success through positive development of skills and skills. The cultural schools represent a very broad range; it is part of the idea that all children and young people should develop their artistic and creative abilities. There's a page that makes this school battle unique. At the same time, we have learned that this wide-ranging effort also produces talents. Many young musicians who have passed both nationally and internationally have their past as students in cultural schools. The Committee is pleased that the Government has followed up the Storting's objective of a talent development programme for young musicians. However, the Committee stresses that cultural schools should play an important role in this talent development programme, which they do not currently have in a satisfactory way. In addition, the Committee asks the Ministry to initiate talent development work in non-musical arts, in cooperation with the cultural schools and the knowledge and education environments of the arts concerned. The size has not followed up the objective for the cultural schools of a funding division between the state, the municipality and the parent payment, as the Eikemo Committee suggested. In the course of the budgetary procedure, the Central Party has taken steps in recent years to increase the teacher's hourly rate, which has remained somewhat silent for many years. Government funding has only been 15 p.m. There has been no majority to increase the hourly rate. The central party believes that it was misguided by the Government to propose the removal of the earmarked grant, which was activity-driven and was an important incentive for increased activity in the cultural schools, prior to the treatment of the cultural school notification. The Government Parties, with the support of the Progress Party, constituted the majority who removed the earmarked grant and thus also lifted the ceiling on the parental payment. The idea of cultural schools was, among other things, that all pupils should be able to participate and that school money should therefore be low. A cultural school for everyone is anchored in a social school bill. Culture schools shall not be an exclusive offer to those who can afford it. For this reason, the majority of students decide that the school money rate should be low. The Workers' Party will reintroduce the earmarked grant, and the Socialist Left Party will reintroduce the earmarked grant until the Government finds other proposals for economic incentives that encourage municipalities to invest in the cultural schools. The central party believes many municipalities show that they have really invested and invested in the cultural schools despite Storting's lack of willingness to follow up financially. The average funding from municipalities in 2002 is 65 pst. of the costs, the parents pay 20 pst. and the state 15 pst. The central party believes that municipalities will continue to invest in the cultural schools and develop them with the clear leaders that the Stortinget is giving today, low parental pay and that at least 30 pst. a cultural school offer shall be given to primary school students. In the case of parental payment, the Government is asked to come back to Stortingen with a feedback on the development. The Norwegian Cultural School Council has conducted a survey of the development of the school money rate in January this year, and the result should worry the Government. All lots, except for the Advance Party, are clear that the parental payment shall be such that children and young people are not excluded from making use of the offer. The central party shares the wish of the municipalities for greater local freedom to dispose of the economic resources. But then the Storting must also provide the municipalities with a financial framework that makes this freedom real. The Norwegian Council of Culture Schools has been an instigator to political authorities and its own members in order to further develop the function of cultural schools as a local cultural institution. «On the road to diversity», the framework plan developed by the Council of Culture Schools is, in the majority's view, the tool for further developing and consolidating the cultural schools locally, through political anchoring in the municipalities. In this context, the majority calls on the Government to assess whether it is appropriate to introduce a regulation which may specify the content of the cultural school offer. Norwegian School of Culture Councils have a high level of competence in networking and development in key arts. The Council of Culture Schools should be strengthened and further developed into the Centre of Competence to assist the municipalities professionally. The majority believe that the Council of Culture Schools, with its long and broad professional competence and its network, should carry out the tasks of guidance and development on behalf of the State of the Learning Centre, and oppose the Government's proposal that the county office of the South Trøndelag should carry out these tasks. The majority of the Committee shares the Government’s view that it is important to disseminate knowledge on the good examples and agrees with the Government’s proposal to assign some cultural schools as demonstration schools or model schools according to the same procedure as for primary schools. The majority of the Committee decides that the Norwegian Cultural School Council shall be the professional body in the evaluation of the applications. Development funds, which this year is probably 7.5 million. kr, has a great deal to do with the development of cultural schools and will be an important asset for the local cultural schools in the future. The number of applications for development underlines this. The majority, all except the Advance Party, determines that the Norwegian Cultural School Council is to manage the development funds. The centre party believes that strengthening these means will be important for the further development of cultural schools and will show it in future budgetary proceedings. Furthermore, in future budgetary discussions, the Central Party will show that we are taking seriously the Storting's objective of at least 30 pst. for primary school students, a low-age cultural school offer shall be provided by providing municipalities with an economic space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e131	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e134	The Labour Party believes that all children and young people should be offered a cultural school. On average, it's 13 pst. by children and young people participating in such cultural activity today. So it is not an offer that is up and running, and that is why the Workers' Party believes that we need to maintain the ringing and thank you for the parental payment. The scheme of the government is the removal of the ringing and the removal of the roof. The center party writes in the setting that this is a disturbing development. One believes that this development threatens the very principle of a cultural school for all. The result of the loss of the roof of the parental payment shows that an expressed national target of low parental pay cannot be implemented in practice in many municipalities. I fully agree with the analysis, but I do not agree with the analysis and the conclusion of the Centre Party. Can the representative Schjäla make a clarification to me with regard to the obvious contradiction?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e145	That's right, I guess 13 pst. primary school students receive a cultural school offer and that the goal that Stortinget has had and confirmed today is that at least 30 pst. must have it. If the representative of Bjørnstad reads the setting carefully and not only picks out selected locations, he also sees that the answers of the Centre Party are not to control the municipalities in detail by earmarking funds, but it is to provide the municipalities with a room for action that allows the municipalities to solve the tasks actually assigned to them. When the Storting today maintains that at least 30 pst. must be offered in cultural schools and that parental pay must be low, it must be the basis for laying down the local economy in the years to come. I also hope that the Labour Party will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e154	This development should concern the government, said Rune Schjälaaen when he had described the price development after it was released on the self-payment on this offer. This should worry the center part as much, because the center part stands for exactly the same line as the government, that is, a free drop of prices. there shall be no roof over the proportion. Since the Rune Kjellea says that the government should be concerned, is my question to him: is he concerned when the Center Party stands for exactly the same line in this policy? And: What might lead this concern to from his side? My next question is whether it wouldn't be natural for the Center Party to support the SV's proposal where we propose to go away from an individual roof, but will put a roof on the excess, i.e. the proportion of the total amount of the parental benefit to be borne by the total costs. It was an attempt at a compromise that I'm a little surprised that the Center Party wouldn't be in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e166	Well then, the development of the parental payment in some municipalities worries me in the same way that it concerns the representative Rikvam, and I say it should worry the government. When I say that it should concern the Government, I repeat what I have said before in relation to giving the municipalities a room for action that allows them to solve the problems. I don't think the answer is earring or thanking you. In the case of SV's proposal for a percentage of the costs, I think it kind of merges into the same pattern as SV shows in some other things, where one will regulate the municipalities in detail. In fact, I have faith in the local politicians. I believe that local politicians want to invest in the cultural schools. History has shown that despite low state subsidies, many municipalities have actually invested in the cultural schools and made it a great offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e173	I think it is worrying if this debate on school and education too is going to be a debate in which we are going to compete for who is the most concerned. I hope that's what we're going to let go of. I am very happy – as opposed to the two former replicators – for the conclusion reached by the Centre Party on the ear-marked grant. But I think there is some ambiguity in what emerged from the case rapporteur, and what lies in the attitude of the Centre Party, in the attitude towards earmarked grants. The representative of Kijlaaen said he was sorry that the earmarked grant had been removed before the deposit message came. In this setting, it may appear that when the Centre Party will not propose to convert this into the earmarked grant again, it is because it has already been decided to include it in the Framework Grant. Does that mean that if the earmarked grant had not already been removed, the Centre Party would have agreed to such a removal in connection with the processing of this paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e180	Hypothetical questions should initially not be answered, because then you can go on wild roads. We note that there is no majority in this Chamber to maintain an earmarked grant for the cultural schools. We know that. When the Central Party criticises the Government for removing the earmarked grant before treatment, it is because the consequences of removing the earmarked grant have not been sufficiently discussed. What was especially about the ear-marked grant as it was was, was among other things. that it was activity-driven. The more a municipality invested in the cultural school offer, the more money it got. What we see is that small municipalities that have invested a lot in the cultural schools will come out worse than large municipalities that have invested little.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e187	To the issue of volume of concern, the President will only note that as long as concern does not cost anything, there is no need for concern. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e193	The Church, Education and Research Committee has discussed St.meld in recent weeks. No 39 on art and culture in primary and secondary schools. It is as natural as it is regrettable that the discussion about such welfare offers often becomes a matter of money and economics and also of concern. It is positive that the message describes the wide art and cultural experience of primary school, but we believe that it is not a sufficient response to the Stortinget's order for a message where the cultural school's place in cultural life is discussed, where the visions emerge, and where we could contribute to giving primary school a boost. Since 1997, the Education Act has required all municipalities, alone or in cooperation with others, to have a music and cultural school offer for children and young people organised in connection with the school system or other cultural life. It should be believed that this would ensure a good deal for everyone, but the legal text is open in terms of scope and content. This includes, among other things: as a result of large differences between municipalities. The unfortunate consequence is that children and young people are not guaranteed the same offer throughout the country. The Working Party and a majority of the Committee believe that cultural competence and not least cultural awareness are important for young people’s ability to interpret and understand a complex society. It is also important for their capacity for creativity and innovation. The Labour Party therefore believes that an overall objective must be to ensure that all children and young people have a cultural offer in their neighbourhood. Until 2004, the state allocation to the music and cultural schools was granted as a earmarked grant to the municipality. From 2004 onwards, these appropriations were included in the general framework grant. In a situation of pressured local economy, we fear in the Workers' Party that the music and cultural offer in the individual municipalities will be affected, and we already see examples of this. The removal of the earmarked grant is for example: The municipality of Namso, which has received about NOK 100 000 less at the year's budget, and the municipality of Tromsø, which has received NOK 200000 less for the operation of the cultural school. That is why we are today promoting proposals to reintroduce the earmarked grant to the cultural schools. Unfortunately, we have not received a majority for this proposal in the committee. The government parties maintain their mantra on municipal freedom. But I can't honestly see how to increase freedom when the appropriations are reduced, as they do in Namsos and, for example, in Tromsø. Of course, we in the Workers' Party are concerned that municipalities should have a high degree of freedom. But then it is also essential that municipalities have sufficient financial leeway. Since the earmarked grant fell, many municipalities have increased the parental benefit beyond the ceiling set by Stortinget nationally. In some places the payment has increased by more than 50 pst. In the drama, the price is now NOK 2 400 per person. years, in Oslo it has risen to $2,600, while parents, for example, in Bodø have to spend $2,800 to let their children go to a music or cultural school. Who says that there is still an offer for everyone when the parental payment is so high? Unfortunately, we are moving in a direction where the cultural offer in some municipalities becomes an offer to those who have good advice. The working party considers this to be a manifestly negative development. The Ministry’s reason for increasing parental pay is to be able to expand the offer to offer more children and young people. But the same logic applies in the kindergarten sector, or for example. within the SFO? Of course, as the ministry, we are concerned about offering as much as possible, but we are concerned about a development in which the economy of mother and father becomes crucial. For the Workers' Party, the objective of ‘a cultural school for all’ means that absolutely all children, irrespective of their parents' finances, shall have the possibility of participation. We therefore do not share the Ministry's view that an increase in parental pay will help to reduce waiting lists. The Labour Party believes that a roof on the parental payment is absolutely essential in order to achieve our goal of offering to all children, to all young people. We cannot – and should not – end up in a situation in which the level of self-payment shocks children from families with poor advice. We're sorry that there's no majority in favour of maintaining the $1,600 ceiling. We believe that it is particularly vital that the Department monitor developments closely, both in terms of the amount involved and in terms of the municipalities using increased parental payments, in order to reduce their own costs, their own municipal expenditure on the cultural schools. We have understood that the ministry is also concerned about this, that they are interested in it, and that they will follow closely. It has also agreed with the Committee as a whole. It tells me that inside, perhaps not all of the parties are absolutely sure that the removal of earmarks and the removal of the roof is the way to go. The working party believes that aesthetic understanding is important both as a basis for personal growth and as an inspiration for learning. It is therefore important that art and aesthetics have their natural place in primary school. The Workers' Party wants further development of cooperation between primary school and music and cultural school, and in this respect we have suggested that the Government take the initiative in projects where teachers from the cultural school work to enhance the quality of cultural efforts in primary school, both in the training of teachers and pupils. This could help to arouse cultural interest. This will be further discussed in the context of the Quality Committee's setting-up notification. It is useful to have a broad debate on the music and culture schools. The overall objective is to expand a wide range of services that is open to all. We believe, as I said, that increased parental pay is not the way to go to open up to the more than 20,000 children who are in line today. We'd rather reintroduce the earmarked grant and put a roof on the parental payment. In fact, we believe that these will be good measures which would have intervened very little in the necessary local freedom of action. Our talents are everywhere. It is therefore essential to be able to give them a room for creativity, expansion and follow-up. If we're going to ensure an offer for all children, we're dependent on a national promise. We can't put the whole burden on the municipalities, which already have a very tight economy. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 1, 2 and 3 in the setting. Subsidy, the Labour Party will support proposal No. 6 from SV, and I ask that the voting be put up so that it becomes possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e223	The representative Eva M. Nielsen has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e226	Once again, we have a case where the Workers' Party will clearly control the municipalities in detail. The representative Eva M. Nielsen is talking about municipal freedom of action, but she is not willing to follow it up by giving the municipalities this freedom of action – even in this case. It is clear that the Stortinget will regulate the activities of municipalities down to the level of detail. I would like to ask the main figure of the Workers' Party if the Workers' Party sees the strength that the municipal task as the cultural school is to be governed by the municipalities themselves. Or does the Labour Party really believe that all the success and happiness in life depend on the Stortinget controlling detail? Where is the Labour Party's confidence in local politicians, not least its own local politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e233	There was a very strong question from the Right – whether all happiness is to be adopted in the Stortinget. It would have been easy, then! As I said in my post, you can ask yourself, how much value does local freedom of action have when local authorities do not have enough money to choose? In fact, we do not believe that the ability of municipalities to design the offer of music and culture schools is limited by earmarking. And I must be allowed to remind the Right that as late as the last state budget was being treated, the Right Christian People's Party voted, etc. for ringing for the nursery sector. Is it true, then, that the Right does not trust its local politicians in the kindergarten sector? I have to say that now in this Chamber we are talking about local freedom of action and trust in local politicians a little as it suits the individual party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e242	There are two things at the heart of the debate. One is the designation of funds, which was also referred to by the previous replicator. The working party, which is a strong supporter of local self-government, will thus have an earmarked grant – even for an offer used by less than 15 pst. by ordinary school pupils. Why, then, is it so important for the Workers' Party to govern this? The second important question in the case is the roof of the parental payment. Why does the Labour Party believe that a price that has remained unchanged since 1993 should remain essentially unchanged? Why do you not believe that local owners can look at both content and dimensioning and set a price that will make more people likely to use the offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e249	I tried to record on the fly, and I believe that the Progress Party had at least four questions for the Workers' Party. I think it's going to be a little bit of a time to answer everyone, so I want to give priority. First of all, it's not like just 15 pst. children use the music and cultural school offer. In many municipalities, it's actually more than 50 pst. who gets an offer, and there are many who have far more than 30 pst. as indicated by the Storting as an interim target. We believe that keeping the roof will help ensure that everyone can afford to let children who are interested in the cultural schools, who are interested in music or other things, go there. It's Mom's and Dad's economy that decides if you can afford it. It must not be that it costs NOK 2 800 to have a child in the music school – it is completely wrong – as the example from Bodø shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e256	A large part of the message is about primary school. Now we in the committee have been able to turn it over to dealing with cultural schools to a greater extent than the message does, and I'm glad we've done. I have a question about primary culture. Eva Nielsen said that art and aesthetics should have their place in primary school. And then she said they'd come back to this when we get the potion message based on the quality selection settings. I'm glad. We're going to discuss this at a later stage, but based on what we've said in the setting, and from what Eva Nielsen now said from the pulpit, I'm going to ask: is she in agreement with SV that cultural competence will be important to define as a basic competence, if we're going to use that kind of concept when we get to the paper, so that we underline cultural competence as a basic competence, a basic subject for which the students will be trained throughout the course of education, from the first to the tenth grade – or 13 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e263	Culture as a basic subject, and culture and aesthetics as a basic competence, is actually a very interesting debate. We've focused a lot on mathematics, English and Norwegian. Today, we have some basic subjects that we define as the pillars of children's education and training in primary school. The Labour Party has also had a discussion about culture as a primary school subject. And, as I said, we want to take that discussion in full when we're going to process the message based on the Quality Committee settings. We want to look at the possibility of this being possible. The only thing that can be difficult is to expand the basic concept so that it's finally eroded. We don't want to be in on that. But we would like to thank you for the invitation from SV, and we would like to take part in the discussion about culture as a basic subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e270	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e273	Primary school is assigned to major and significant tasks in our society. Not only should children be taught the basic skills, but primary school should also provide children with “good general knowledge, so that they can become useful and independent people in the world and society”. The training shall also provide the basis for further education for individuals and for a high level of competence in the people. Paragraphs 1-2 of the Training Act set truly high targets. Individual students must be given the opportunity to acquire and develop a complete competence. Cultural experiences and self-activity are important elements in providing these skills and opportunities for identity building. These are not new tasks for the school. Throughout the school's history, the school has been an intermediary of art, culture and traditions. This task has solved the school very well. The school must also, in the future, be given the opportunity to play this role, at a time of new technology and with an information flow and influence stream for which only imagination limits. Both through dissemination and self-activity, children must be given the opportunity to acquire complete competence and build their own identity. These are also important aspects of school activity, as well as learning basic skills. This must not be forgotten either. Of course, the school does not do this alone — ‘in cooperation and understanding with the home’, says the Training Act. In addition, close and strong links need to be established with community institutions and organisations. St.meld. No 38 for 2002-2003 states that the aim of the cultural school system is to provide a professional cultural service at school, to integrate art and culture into school, and to promote good organisation and division of work between schools, local cultural institutions, teams and associations. Local libraries and museums have important roles. There is agreement on the importance of giving children good art experiences and opportunities for self-employment. If the school is to give them good experiences, it is important to build up the necessary skills in each school. Too many examples of art placement in schools have become a one-off event that has been more damaging than construction. Space and space must be provided for the necessary preparation and after-work. If the school is to succeed, the necessary skills must be available, ranging from ordering competence to pedagogical competence and professional competence in this field. Without this competence, we will not succeed, and parts of the competence are absent in many schools today. Municipal cultural schools have a major and important role to play in this context. The development of the music and cultural schools has been impressive since the speedy start 30 years ago. Not least through the legal fastening of § 13-6 of the Training Act, the offer has been given a necessary anchor in the overall training provision. No one in the Committee disagrees with the importance of cultural schools. This is clear from the Committee's comments. The importance of cultural schools in very many municipalities is underlined by the Committee. The Committee also stresses that the cultural school should be a school class independent of primary school and a supplement to primary school. This does not prevent the disagreement in the committee from arising. The working party and SV propose and will reintroduce the earmarked grant and keep hold of the parental payment. The right-hand side rejects both parts. The designation was included in the framework grant as of 1 January of this year, after 20 years of designation. There's a long time with the earmarked grant. We believe that the municipalities have shown the ability and willingness to prioritize the cultural schools. We're sure we'll keep going. We have faith in the will of local politicians and the ability to prioritize this offer. So we don't share the fear of down-priority. In our opinion, thanks to the parental payment, cannot be maintained after inclusion in the framework grant. The size cannot, and should not, enter and govern the free income of municipalities. The minority, with their proposal, wants to control the municipalities in detail to a degree that I believe most municipalities and local politicians will respond to. The fear of large price rise seems excessive. It is clear that some price adjustment must be expected in relation to a ceiling that has been unchanged since 1992, but my claim is that a price of NOK 2000-2500 per person. years is an acceptable price for participating in the cultural school offer. We don't share the idea that the future of cultural schools is at stake because of this. On the contrary, we believe that a freer definition of parental pay may be necessary in order for cultural schools to develop. The claims made, including: From the Council of Culture Schools, as far as this is concerned, I have to say that I perceive as an overdramatization. I regret that there have been prophecies from some that could have a self - fulfilling effect. This does not prevent us also from having a comment asking the department to follow developments closely, because the intention of a broad cultural school offering where no one is excluded is established. Finally, the Committee emphasises the important role of the Council of Culture Schools as a development actor, guide and coordinator. I am pleased with the broad consensus that the Council of Culture Schools will continue its activities without being subject to the state regional education system. It prevents bureaucracy and underlines the independence of cultural schools from the formal school system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e290	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e294	The Committee has been concerned about getting a cultural school for everyone. The majority of the Committee, which is also composed of the Right, has stated in its Opinion that the Stortinget has not followed up the objective of the cultural schools of a financial division between state, municipality and parent payment of 45 pst., 45 pst. and 10 pst., to which the Eikemo Committee provided. The majority, which also consists of the Right, has underlined the Storting's objective of at least 30 pst. in the case of primary school students, a cultural school offer shall be provided and shall continue to be provided. My question to the representative is: What concrete measures does the Right consider to achieve this objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e303	The representative Lena Jensen quoted correctly from the setting. We are concerned that the cultural schools should still be a broad offer and an offer that should not exclude anyone. We believe that what is done in relation to the transfer of the earmarked grant to the framework grant, and that the ceiling is lifted, will not distort anything in that intention and objective. The measures in place are measures which the municipalities themselves must choose to implement through their budgetary procedures and appropriations. So in the last financial year, the municipalities as a whole have granted 900 million. kr to the cultural schools. The grant earmarked for the State budget was $90 million. kr. So the municipalities have granted 900 million. kr. It goes without saying that the great weight to make this a broad offer has been lying and still has to be in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e310	I remind you that the thing we're discussing is about art and culture both in and in relation to primary school, and I remind you that culture is part of ordinary education. The cultural school bag is a big message that has been treated before this as we treat today, but as we do many visits through St.meld. No 39, which is today's text. Why can't the Right agree that funds from the Cultural School Bag can be used for, for example, school libraries and municipal cultural schools to follow up the intentions and objectives painted with a broad brush for the cultural school system?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e317	It is clear that it is important to see both St.meld. No 38 on the cultural school bag and St.meld. No 39 that we're dealing with now, in context. They must also be seen in the context of the communication on culture. We've made a lot of visits to the cultural school bag through the setting here, and it's important to link close links between the cultural school bag and the cultural schools and culture in the school. It has to happen in many ways. As far as the cultural school system is concerned, it is the means by which, in the first instance, cultural experiences with performances are to take place, where students are to have good cultural experiences, while the cultural schools are more based on self-activities of the students. We need to find this context and context in primary school. When it comes to the use of funds, we think there's something that has to go on and on. The cultural school bag is relatively new, and we need to see how this works. But I think it's important to see the context, and we have to keep that in mind all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e326	In 2002, the Government proposed to cut development funds. They returned after treatment in Stortinget. My question is: how does the representative assess the importance of development funds in the future, and he believes that 7.5 million. is sufficient on the basis of the large applicant mass of these development funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e333	Are there any means sufficient? Probably not. I have a great deal of faith in these developments, and it is true, as the representative Mr Schjellaa said, that it was proposed to be withdrawn from the budget. Well, we were a lot on both sides of the limit position/opposition that wasted to get these funds in. After all, it is an amount that has remained relatively silent without the large increase over the years. I believe that this must be provided with means to ensure that one can have a continuous development process in the cultural schools, and it is important that this process is managed and coordinated by the Council of Culture Schools. But to stand here and say that we need to have more money for this in next year's budget, I won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e340	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e343	St.meld. No 39 on art and culture in and in connection with the school is closely related to St.meld. No 38 on the cultural school bag, which has been dealt with by the Culture Committee. The notification here deals with more than one budget heading, at the latest in the 2003 budget of a single Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The Progress Party considers that a broad presentation of art and culture in and in relation to primary school is positive. Nevertheless, it is the grant to music and cultural schools that is clearly in focus. During the examination of the municipality's 2004 proposal, the Progress Party supported the proposal to include the grant for cultural schools in the framework grant to municipalities. Designation and content of the offer, which currently includes less than 15 pst. by the students, should in our opinion be left to the individual municipality. The Progress Party took note of the information provided by the Local Governments’ Central Association that the municipal sector spent well over 900 million in 2002. in music and culture schools. Over the last eight years, participation has been between 10 and 13 pst. by primary school students. It is interesting that many of the hearing bodies strongly recommend government designation for an offer that concerns so few. It is also interesting that parties who in other contexts speak warmly and deeply to local self-government and against the earmarking of funds directly from the state, such as: The Workers' Party and SV, in this case, will have reintroduced earmarked funds for municipal cultural schools, an action for 13 pst. by today's students at school. It is interesting to suggest the reintroduction of earrings from SV for one more reason. In the 2004 municipal proposal, SV provided for the removal of the designation of primary school grants for primary school students in the 7th grade. There are as many as 60,000 students participating from the same class step each year. Why this strong commitment from SV to removing the earmarking of money for camp school stays, and why this overconfidence for the earmarking of money for cultural schools? There's going to be a bad answer from SV if the reason is that camp schools are not required by law and cultural schools are. The conclusion of camp school stays is overwhelming and should be counted. If the SV really believes that local freedom of action should also include the prioritisation of funds, the SV should also be able to rely on the priorities of local government. With regard to the point of culture at school, the Progress Party points out that Norway is among the OECD countries that spend most of their teaching hours in aesthetic subjects at primary school. Only Norwegian, mathematics and social sciences have higher hours. Fagene art and crafts have a total of 1,330 hours, only Norwegian with 2,033 and math with 1,387 have several hours. We do not see the need for an increase in this in the Progress Party. However, when the Progress Party wants to extend the school day somewhat, it is a basic subject, as well as to accommodate new subjects such as economics, technology and mandatory foreign languages. At the same time, however, we believe that resources in a municipal cultural school can be used for compulsory education in the arts, crafts and music of primary school, provided that quality can be documented. The Committee also refers to the cultural school bag. The Committee stresses that cultural schools should play an active role in the design of the school bag in order to ensure that local resources are used and localised in the school bag. When the Committee also points to the important role of the school library as a cultural intermediary in the school, it is important to remember that the school libraries have a double task. Incentives to literacy contribute both to better literacy and thereby to better learning outcomes, while at the same time strengthening cultural awareness and interest. In the opinion of the Progress Party, we should therefore open the cultural school bag also to the school libraries. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the overall objective of the cultural school system is precisely to ensure that funds can be used to strengthen the school library provision for each school. In this way, we believe that the lack of skills and the lack of time resources for the school library service can be remedied. This is in our view up to the municipalities themselves, which are the owners of both schools and cultural schools. The cultural school and the funding of the cultural school have been widely mentioned in the nomination. The Progress Party agrees to repeal the national parental-payment ceiling. In line with the view that funding is included in the framework grant and left to municipal priority, it is also in the view of the Progress Party that no price leads. Dimensionation, content and price are left to the priority of the local government. But here too, the Progress Party is committed to linking the cultural school bag with the ordinary school bag. The Committee's note on the cultural school system states on page 5 of the Innst. S. No 50 for 2003-2004: ‘The Committee will also emphasise that the cultural school system must take the perspective of participants and facilitate the development of pupils themselves, so that they do not become passive recipients of artistic and cultural impressions.’ The Progress Party also supports the desire for a lashing in the school and the desire for local ownership. In line with this, the Progress Party believes that each municipality has an opportunity to use funds allocated from the cultural school bag also for municipal cultural schools. In our view, it is important to look at the context, both in order to ensure good use of resources and to ensure a good cultural outcome. In line with visions, goals and intentions, the cultural school system can and should be opened up against the compulsory school, against the school library and against the municipal culture school. Then it becomes culture in and in connection with primary school in a good, meaningful and smart way. Finally, the Advance Party has joined the focus on talent development. However, the Progress Party believes that development work and exchange of experience should be carried out by the municipalities themselves. We therefore do not support any assignment to the County Council of Southern Trondelag or to the Norwegian Council of Culture Schools. We therefore do not support any of the proposals in the vote, from the Labour Party and SV respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e380	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e383	We also see in this case that the Progress Party is a supporter of the Government's plan to roll costs over to the parents and increase the self-payment far beyond the price increase. Last year it was the school leisure system, now it's the cultural schools. The Committee considers that the current increase in self-payment is acceptable, but is of the opinion that, in principle, the price should cover the costs of municipalities in the cultural schools. In the comments of the Progress Party, it is stated that this was 900 million. in 2002. It would mean, if you were to follow the line of the Progress Party, a three-four-double of today's price in own-payment. Does the Progress Party also believe that there will be an acceptable level for parents to be able to participate in a cultural school offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e390	The point that we're talking about this with the 900 million. is, among other things, it demonstrates the willingness of the community sector to use its own resources at the cultural school. The progress party has pointed out, and I also made it a key point in my post, that we have faith in the municipal autonomy in this matter of dimensionalizing the offer to the students, i.e. under 15 pst., who use it today. And I repeat that we believe that a dimensioning of the content along with a corresponding pricing can actually be involved and contribute to that more than these approx. 13 pst. chooses a cultural school as an offer, even with a limited parental payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e396	This must be one of the few areas where the Progress Party has confidence in municipal autonomy. The representative of Sortevik spent a lot of time on SV and earring. What we know is that the ringing has worked so that it has triggered municipal funds. That's why we think it's important to maintain a state grant as an incentive, and that's what we're writing. It's not earmarking that's important to us, but funds that are an incentive to trigger municipal funds. In this case, as in many other cases, the party of progress has largely come out in relation to the rest of the committee. They are alone in most of the comments. So Arne Sortevik says the municipalities spend 900 million. kr, and the municipalities must be allowed to prioritise themselves. Then I'm going to ask Arne Sortevik about what they're writing about the cultural schools here: the Progress Party believes it's a right priority for the municipal sector to spend 900 million. kr for the cultural schools? I would remind you that in its comments, the Progress Party «recommends that the municipalities assume that the price of municipal art schools covers the costs of the municipality for such a municipal offer». There's going to be hard prices on the self-payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e407	You can make that look like a big number. The point is that if you don't do anything about content and dimensioning, you don't do anything about the price either. So we want local owners to make an offer that can reach more than one, but also for a cheap money. At the same time, we are determined that the parents must be involved and pay something. So the representative from SV says that the Progress Party has also signed up in this case. Now there are probably several parties that have signed up on this matter, and then I am thinking in particular about the connection between the cultural school bag and the matter we are discussing today. It's a little busy just being able to link the funds in the cultural school bag to the cultural activity that's going on in the ordinary school. We think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e414	The President would like to remind you that under the Rules of Procedure, there is an obligation to meet in the Committee and not to sign out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e417	The interesting point made by the representative Sorteviks was the attempt to present the learning vision of the Advance Party in relation to the place of culture, and he also tried to make a balanced contribution when it came to it. However, the Progress Party did not want to include in the setting remarks where an emphasis is on aesthetic recognition as ‘important both as a personal experience and as an inspiration and basis for learning’ and says that ‘a good learning environment is characterised by creative processes’. After hearing the comments of the representative, Mr Sortevik, I wonder: What place does culture have in an overall sense of competence and learning in the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e422	In my article, I showed that Norway is among the OECD countries that actually spend most of their teaching hours in aesthetic subjects at primary school. We don't want to change it, but at the same time I also made it clear that we don't want to expand it either. We're concerned that when we're going to have a slightly longer day at school, we're going to use it for subjects other than the aesthetic subjects. But we have a broad and good base for aesthetic subjects in primary school in terms of art and crafts. We should and should still have that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e427	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e430	The SV considers the notification to be a response to the comments made by the majority in the budget positions in 2001 and 2002 and that an overall committee in 2003 requested the submission of a separate monitoring report in the light of the Eikemo Committee's investigation into the music and cultural schools, in which the rate of the subsidy was assessed. I just have to complain and say that the message gives little response to the Storting's order for a message that discusses cultural schools' place in cultural life, neither in terms of objectives, instruments or economics. I find that the message mainly describes the development of the cultural school in general and takes into account other aspects of art and culture in relation to primary school. I am immensely pleased to point out that the Committee has underlined in its attitude the importance of culture in primary and cultural awareness, and that cultural skills and understanding must to a large extent be part of the competence that students will acquire during the elementary school cycle. Cultural competence is essential for the interpretation and interpretation of a complex society and a condition for acquiring the diversity of forms of expression with which it is met. At the same time, I would like to point out that cultural awareness is important both for young people's orientation and for their ability to create creativity, innovation and wealth of ideas. I believe that the Committee has sent out an important and very strong signal against the announced announcement by the Government of quality in primary education. Cultural competence must be one of the important elements of the basic competence to be taken into account by students when leaving basic training. I ask the Council of State to take this with me. SV believes that a school library must be a resource centre in the school. SV believes it is essential to upgrade the school libraries in primary school in order to improve the quality of the school. Studies show that many school students have little access to school libraries and that the quality of supply in many places is low. A unanimous committee states that the school libraries should include a satisfactory selection of literature and scientific literature as well as audiobooks, videos, CD-ROMs and newspapers. Access to a wide and varied selection is a prerequisite for the library to function as an active cultural intermediary. The entire committee also says that school libraries need to be open and accessible in schools. Then, in my post, I will challenge the Council of State: How will the Council of State follow this up with concrete measures? Qualitatively good school libraries are important and crucial tools for creating literacy, creativity, understanding of text and critical thinking among children and young people. In addition to being a reading arena, a well-developed school library will provide a differentiated and up-to-date array of materials that will provide individually organised training. Organised education is one of the major challenges we face in improving the quality of primary education, and I believe that the school libraries are one of the most important tools we need to use. SV is concerned with the availability of students and that the competence of the school libraries should be strengthened. We are not concerned about how this happens, but we note that there is a need for both increased competence, accessibility and a width of the material in the school library, and that there is also a need for a change in view of what a school library is. Therefore, I hope again that the Council of State will follow up my challenge: What concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure that school libraries become open and accessible resource centres at school? Another area EN is concerned with culture at school, where, together with the Workers' Party, we put in a proposal to ask the Government to take the initiative to give primary school students free access to several museums. It's a poem that I've been very inspired by, now that I'm going to talk about the Committee's position, which deals with the communication that should really be about: the cultural school and the role of the cultural school for children and young people and the development of cultural life in the future. This poem is written by a little girl who I know very well. The thickness is «Lyvediktet»: ‘I have a gold dress. I can slide on the rainbow. I can fly high in cloud. I can lie." Kaia, 8 years old. The attitude is witnessing a weak growth effort for the future of the cultural school. There is a long way between word and action. Although the government’s efforts were weak – a message was expected that addressed visions and objectives for the further development of the cultural school, and that the government would promote concrete measures for such further development, but there was little trace of it – the Stortinge Committee could have achieved something in its position, but it has done little. The attitude is full of praiseworthy formulations about the importance of cultural schools for the development of creative child-minding and living communities, but does not suggest anything in terms of actual action and funding. If it were to be on the state's efforts and the state's visions of the development of the cultural school, it looks very dark in my view for the future of the cultural school. Since 1997, the Education Act has required all municipalities to have a music and cultural school offer for children and young people. There has been broad political agreement that the offer should be so large and the threshold for participation so low that the cultural school does not exclude anyone who wants it. This is reflected in the goal of Stortingen, which we also maintain in our position, that at least 30 pst. by primary school students, and under the vision of a ‘Cultural School for All’, which was to be secured and implemented with a ceiling on self-payment, so that the parent’s economy would not be decisive for children’s participation. Either the majority of people have now lost faith in their goals, or the commitment to the future of the cultural school has decreased. Today it's only 13 pst. of the country's primary school students with a cultural school offer, and waiting lists are often very long. At least 20,000 children are in line to enter one of the country's cultural schools, and the queue is growing very many places. From this year onwards, the State grant for cultural schooling has also been introduced into the general framework grant to municipalities, while the ceiling on parental payment has now been raised. This has resulted in an increase in prices at half of the country's 410 municipal cultural schools. In some of the country's cultural schools, the price has doubled. This means that the objective is far from being achieved. SV was opposed to cancelling the designation, and we are opposed to lifting the ceiling on parental pay, because we believe that it weakens the cultural school's operational base. Strong local commitment and long-distance municipalities have so far ensured that we have open and creative cultural schools where children and young people can expand in many places in the country. But the cultural school must and should be further developed, and we should have a vision of where we want it to go. This development could help the Stortinget if it had been a political desire and a political will to do so. Instead, you choose to leave the whole and full responsibility to slumped municipal offices as well as to parents' wallets. The majority call it the municipal maritime council, but in reality this is a discharge from the political responsibility of developing the cultural schools. One wants to experience art and cultural expressions through good training and well-qualified teachers. However, when the SV and the Workers' Party promote a proposal to ask the Government to take the initiative in pilot projects in one or more counties, where teachers from the cultural school are working to enhance the quality of cultural efforts in primary school, both in the training of teachers and pupils, this does not get a majority. The Committee says that the emergence of cultural schools in the municipalities is of great value to the community as a cultural intermediary institution. In the view of the Committee, artistic expression through student activity contributes positively to the building of the local environment and is a local resource for the rest of the cultural life. It is also said that the cultural school represents a school in which students get to participate on their own assumptions and abilities and without admission requirements. SV has also noted in its comments on the suspension that there is no majority for this with parental payment. We initially wanted to have a maximum payment of NOK 1600, but in order to carry this matter a little further, we have looked at alternative options, which we have suggested. We are promoting a proposal that the Stortinget asks the Government to assume that the self-payment for children and young people is a maximum of 10 pst. of the total municipal costs of the cultural school. This means that you can then have a differentiated rate based on the payment by your parents, you can have different rates on different offers, and adults can also pay more. In the end, I would like to praise the good work done by the Council of Culture Schools to develop the quality and content of the cultural school over 20 years. With enthusiasm, creativity, progress and professional competence, the association of cultural schools has been a very important driver of development. I finally want to include SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e469	The representative Lena Jensen has taken up the suggestions she made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e474	The working party and SV are united in calling about the cultural schools, both in the case of parental payments and in the case of ear-marking. On the other hand, SV only mentions the comment where they say that it is important to have financial incentives for municipalities to invest in the cultural school. It is also in proposal No. 6, which SV has promoted. What is difficult here is that, in its comments, SV does not say anything concrete about what is contained in the term ‘economic incentives’. We know that the designation scheme that we had in the past increased the activity and increased revenue for the municipalities. But since SV has not been specific about financial incentives, I would ask the representative from SV to tell us what types of financial incentives SV sees for itself in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e481	SV is dedicated to developing the cultural school and to participating in and bet on it. This, we see, can certainly be done in different ways. We also want the Government to look at what measures can be taken to strengthen the cultural school — other types of incentives than just ringing. And until other forms of action have been found that strengthen the development of the cultural school, we want to keep the earmarked grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e486	To the school library: Of course, I agree that school library is an important arena that is probably not well-developed everywhere. The right agrees with the note that school libraries need to be built up to act as a resource centre. But it is far from there to SV's proposal on minimum standards and staffing standards for school libraries. So once again we get an example of detail control -- one of many. During this period, we have received many minimum standards from SV on different issues and in different areas. My question to SV is: What does SV think that a proposal for minimum standards should contain in concrete terms? In which areas shall there be minimum standards? Is that relative to books, hours, competence, area, availability, or is there any other thing? And what is the SV's idea of manning standards?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e494	A unanimous committee has said that the school libraries should be equipped to become resource centres in any school. A unanimous committee has said that there is a need to strengthen the school libraries, and a unanimous committee has said that there is a very different level of school libraries around the country. One has also pointed to studies that show that this is the case. SV goes into this matter. We're not concerned about how to do this. Our way of attacking this is that we want to see it politically in different ways, and that we get a strengthening of the school libraries, so that they can become the resource centers that you need.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e501	When SV is looking for solutions to strengthen both the school library and the municipal culture school, I assume that they are also pursuing the economic side of such a strengthening. We are still concerned to see these two issues and these two major messages in the context. Therefore, it is tempting to give the same challenge to SV that I tried to give to the representative from the Right: When, like SV, you now say that they want to strengthen school libraries and municipal cultural schools, will you look at what opportunities there are to make use of the resources in the cultural school system, given the intentions and objectives that apply to it? In our view, it obviously opens up the possibility of combining, and thus to the strengthening of school libraries and cultural schools that SV are looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e508	The cultural school bag is an important contribution to strengthening students' encounters with professional art and both experience and be part of expressing such art. But SV is very concerned that this should be an addition to the ordinary operating resources. It's going to be an addition to what the school is doing today. This has been the basis on which a majority in the United Kingdom has based its contribution to the cultural school system. So it's an addition to and not part of the ordinary teaching offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e513	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e516	«Read and write and count is good, but to sing a little – it makes us happy». That's what a famous school song sounds like that that I came up with while I was reading the message we're processing today. Throughout history, the school has turned out to be a channel of cultural expression, yes, from the 1100s onwards, when the first cathedral schools were established. The curriculum in force today reads as follows: ‘The training must provide room for the creativity of the students and at the same time awaken their joy in the performance of others. Through image and form, tone and words, they must be stimulated to unfold imagination and to experience art.» International studies show that a broad concept of competence is increasingly important in developing indicators of learning outcomes. The role of the school as a cultural carrier is therefore important. Art and culture have a self-esteem. The Christian People's Party believes that cultural competence plays a major role in improving the quality of life. Cultural dissemination has an important aspect of identity, for its own cultural background gives identity. The message ‘Only to Light’ puts culture and cultural experiences in primary school into a broad context. The school as a cultural supporter facilitates the development of the cultural competence of students as part of a broader educational and learning process. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to see the attitude that the Storting has dealt with about the cultural school bag, also in this context. Resources from the cultural school system should go to different measures in all municipalities, so that all primary school students can experience professional art and culture at school. Such meetings will appeal to the creative abilities of children and arouse their curiosity. It shall provide a high-quality professional cultural offer and better opportunities for students to participate in cultural performances themselves. Film will be a bet area in 2004. Just film has a large user group among children and young people. It is therefore important in the work on this cultural expression in school, among other things. an understanding of the measures taken in the film. I would also point out that the Committee notes in its position that the school must anchor the cultural school system in its objectives and in its local plans. School library is another important arena, for example: to stimulate literacy. It's set at 100 million. kr over a three-year period for the development of competence in the use of school libraries and the stimulation of reading. «Give room for reading! Read-awareness and literacy strategy 2003-2007’ was developed in 2003. Among other things, there is funding from the cultural school bag for literature placement in school. The strategy plan shall include, inter alia: contribute to enhancing the competence of teachers in the use of the school library. The Christian People's Party has worked a long time to get the municipal music schools legislated and has supported a goal of making music school students at least 30 pst. by all primary school students. The law was passed in 1997, but the goal of 30 p.m. is only reached by 75 municipalities. So here's another good piece of work to do. But almost 100,000 children and young people are in the cultural schools today. In many municipalities, cultural schools act as cultural educational resource centres. This means that they have the competence to assist cultural life elsewhere in their work in the municipalities, thus developing different types of point competence. Norway has been a leading country in the field of cultural school provision internationally, from the first earmarked State aid granted in 1982, in fact following an initiative by Kjell Magne Bondevik in an interpellation debate in 1980. The Christian People's Party challenges its municipal government representatives to strengthen the cultural schools so that the parental payment can be kept at a reasonable level. And we're willing to consider measures if the school money should run smoothly, as the Council of Culture Schools has said they're worried about. Culture school should be for everyone, not for the few. The target of 30 pst. remains firm, as was also expressed in a note in the context of the 2004 State Budget. The possible increase in school money should not balance the municipal budget, but reduce the waiting lists. The «Eikemo Report» pointed out that a framework plan for the cultural school should be drawn up. The Norwegian Council of Culture Schools took this into account and has developed a framework for the cultural school, «Towards diversity». This is a good piece of work that should form the basis for further development and consolidation of cultural schools locally through political anchoring in the municipalities. The majority of the Committee also states that the Government should consider whether it is appropriate to introduce a regulation which may specify the content of the offer. The Council of Culture Schools should be strengthened in the exercise of guidance and development tasks and in the management of the means of development, which constitute approximately: 7.5 million. DKK in 2004. The cultural school offer is today nationwide and statutory, and the Christian People's Party also wants the Culture School Council to be further developed into the centre of competence to assist the municipalities professionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e543	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e546	As the representative Skarbøvik just said, it is actually Kjell Magne Bondevik who is going to have a lot of credit for having a cultural school in Norway, and that we got a cultural school debate. In 1980, when he took the initiative in the debate on the music schools, it actually triggered a state aid of 5 million. kr to the cultural school, where both earmarking and thanks to parental payment were important. In today's setting, unfortunately, we have come to a turning point in the negative direction. What was previously referred to as the heart child of Bondevik is now threatened. Does the really crisis-making People's Party, like the Right, mean that an increase in the parental payment of more than 100 pst. in some municipalities is the right way to go to expand the offer to become an offer to all? When the Christian People's Party in today's position asks the Government to follow developments closely, what will the Christian People's Party do if developments with increased parental pay only continue and continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e553	I thank the Labour Party for the challenge of explaining that the Christian People's Party does not see increased parental pay as a payment for poor municipal economy, but that we should take care of the waiting lists for the cultural schools and do something with them. There are long waiting lists around, we know that. What I have been reported on is that today there are 62 municipalities that have a school fee of NOK 2 000 or higher. And $1,600, which has been the ceiling since 1992, is today equivalent to $20,000. So there are some municipalities that have raised it, and you could say that they're sorry, but that's where the municipal autonomy works. And I ask, where was the Workers' Party last year when we dealt with the budget? That was when the ringing debate took place. That was when the framework grant to the cultural schools was introduced and decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e565	When looking for opportunities to strengthen cultural schools, it's important to look where the money is. Therefore, we – and I – are still concerned about asking why one saw in cash and definitely reject this possible link between the cultural school bag and the cultural school. I have a question for the representative of the Christian People's Party. It's based on what's in the position we're now discussing, on page 4, where the committee has actually said something about the cultural school bag. It ends as follows: ‘Cultural schools have, in the Committee’s view, an important role to play in organising the cultural school system, both in terms of dissemination, student participation and in contributing to educational competence.’ Is that so, I have to ask the representative of the Christian People's Party that you should only play this role without getting fees? When this description is given of the importance of the cultural school and what tasks it will take on the cultural school system, will it not be able to use funds in the cultural school system?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e577	I said in my post that it is important for the Christian People's Party to see the cultural school in connection with the cultural school and culture in school at all. This has to work. There is a relatively new allocation in this area, and when the setting of the cultural school bag was treated in Stortinget, this was also addressed. We've said in the setting that we'll look at this in context. For me, the cultural school bag is part of this with cultural experiences in school. As a Vestfold representative, I'm quite proud of that, because that expression actually comes from the Sandefjord schools, which started very early with just seeing the value of getting culture into school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e583	The removal of the earmarked grant has affected municipalities that have had a high level of activity at the cultural school, such as: The municipality of Namso and the municipality of Tromsø, which has received approximately NOK 100 000 and NOK 200000 less per person. years. And it's served those municipalities that haven't had a high level of activity, like this. Oslo. Was this meant when the Christian People's Party introduced the cultural school? It's not useful to be concerned. There is an action that is needed. When Elsa Scarbøvik says that the Christian People's Party will consider taking action if the parental payment runs smoothly, what does running run wild when you know that some municipalities have doubled the parental payment in the cultural school bag?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e590	I don't think I've said in my post that I'm so very concerned, but I quote from the Council of Culture Schools, who writes that they might think that it can run wild. It was from there that I quoted and referred to the Council of Culture Schools' view of this. That means that if you see that the parental payment is going to be so large that it's going to be hard to reach the goal of 30 pst. It's going to take a long time, that it's going very late, the Christian People's Party is ready to look at the regulations for this. This is an action we want to come back to if it turns out that we're not able to follow up on the fact that the cultural schools are going to be for everyone. For us, there is a general principle in many areas where voluntary action is required, that it should be parental payment. I have not heard anyone in the debate raise the issue that it should not be parental pay at all. There are a few municipalities that have increased the amount in proportion to NOK 1600, but we hope that we will not continue beyond what we can calculate that NOK 1600 was many years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e597	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e600	I have now listened to the whole debate. What's a sunny fact is that there's a broad consensus on most of the key points. I've only got five minutes, so I'm just going to raise some moments that I think are important. Firstly, when we treat children, young people and culture, it is important that we do not always take on the focus of adult society, the needs of adult society, in relation to children, young people and culture. We're talking about education, but it's important not just to attack the culture of children and youth as an instrument for adults' need for children and young people to fit into adult society. It is important that children’s and young people’s culture have a self-esteem, that children’s and young people’s cultural expressions have a self-esteem, and that children’s and young people’s theatrical performances, concerts, etc. has the same value as adults. It is not just prevention or adult society’s need for education that must be the starting point of child and youth culture policy. The second is that in the education perspective, as there is a broad consensus, and as it stands very nicely in the setting, it is important not just to focus on the musical performer. It is important to focus on the fact that children should be in contact with culture long before school age, that they start early, and that this occurs in different arenas in children’s childhood. Voluntary organisations and private actors must provide a whole local framework that allows children to develop a comprehensive range of opportunities and opportunities to develop their abilities. Everybody's busy with the width. So are we in the left. But it's important that the cultural side dares to bet on the talents. I think it is an important moment today that we see that in most of the competitions and disputes in the area of children, young people and culture there are a few institutions that mostly run away with all the first prizes. It's a warning about how we organize our cultural school. This means that there are often talents linked to some institutions that have a lot of opportunities, which probably children linked to many other institutions would have managed to cope with if they had had the opportunity of such a talent development. It is a major challenge for the country's cultural schools to remove the hegemony that some institutions have in relation to such twins. So in the end, about the strange earring debate, which has become the main debate, because it's the earring we're most disagreeing about. It seems here that the Storting is kind of the guarantee that all of this is going to go well, it's the Storting that found out that children and young people are going to have a cultural offer, and it's the Storting that's the only one who cares about this. That's wrong. In fact, local politicians were mostly beginning to organize cultural education for the children. It is the local politicians who have been champions in Namsos and in other municipalities. It is the local politicians who have always wanted to give priority to this, and it is the local politicians who have done so. The size has made some national laws. Now it is time for us to once again give the initiative to the local politicians. Because I think the way we've organized this in the past has been a barrier to growth. Some examples: in many municipalities, such as In the municipality we're in right now, there's a lot of private education in addition to the municipal music school. Maybe one should have arranged the offers under some umbrellas, or organized it so that we had focused more on the children who can't afford, in relation to how we want to use the funds that are to be used here, and given the offer to them. The challenges are incredibly different around the municipalities. Voluntary music life has a very different base and also very different links with cultural schools around the municipalities. Sometimes it's going really well, sometimes it's going incredibly bad. There has been an obstacle to the development of music and cultural services for children that there has been no good enough cooperation between volunteers and the public. And then it sounds like you're running a race, and as if you're increasing the payment from 180 kroner to 200 kroner a month, which this averages, is going to be a disaster. Anyone who has experienced paying cash cards to a loved 14-year-old knows that the 20-50 kroner per month are not necessarily a disaster for the family economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e615	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e618	The debate has shown in a way that there are some parties that obviously have a strong distrust of local politicians around. I share Trine Skei Grande's view that it is actually the local politicians who have fought and worked out the cultural school offerings around our country. It was the one side that was suspicious. And then it's the other side that praises local freedom. The center party actually does. But when the representative Trine Skei Grande says what Stortinget shouldn't do, she should also say what Stortinget should do. She should say something about that, namely, to give this freedom that she is talking about, real content, say something about how Stortinget should treat the municipalities in relation to the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e623	I now assume that the Center Party is going to be a champion to give Left longer speaking time in the Storting in any case, and I am pleased about that. We would like to say something about the local economy. This government has got a very big rise in the last few years. But it doesn't help that we get a big boost if we keep getting new designations, new minimum standards and new rules. What we need in order to get the local economy back to the right place is to get the local authorities properly cleaned in earmarked funds, a proper reorganisation of legislation and minimum standards that will give them the freedom of action. I grew up in a home that was music school Friday, Saturday and Sunday. My father had groups of up to 20 students and down to one, depending on how different the different kids were at. Then all of this was to be transferred to the music school. It was then to be pressed into a system that led to a grant from a government system, which led to the number of students in that instrument in my municipality of origin going from approx. 200 students to five in a few years. For teaching methods, there was then a certain funding system, and other rules made it impossible to think creatively.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e632	After hearing the contribution to Trine Skei Grande, I wonder what's really the purpose of the whole big message, because what's her answer is volunteering, and volunteering has got worse after the cultural schools have arrived. What was the conclusion of her contribution, I'm also a little uncertain about still, but she concluded at least that if the price increases from 150 kroner to 180 kroner, it doesn't mean anything to people. The Committee was in the context of this Communication, inter alia: visiting Tromsø. One of the feedbacks we got from Tromsø Culture School was that the price increase that they had to put in as a consequence of having problems with funding had consequences for how many people had said they didn't take the place. There was clearly a link between the price of the offer and how many parents could afford to pay it. There was a clear response that we received. And then you can't stand here and in many ways ridicule the increase in prices, and ask, what does that really mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e639	I observe once again that more people want me to have better time to also bring the party speech that we all agree on, in relation to libraries, in relation to movies, in relation to talent development and all of this. I raised some points that it was important for me to raise in relation to what was not promised by others in the debate. So to this with the price of the offer. You have a lot of cows, so it's obvious that it's not the price that's the big scare. You have to be able to divide 2,000 kroner by 12 months and figure out which sums this is talking about. If you have some knowledge of the leisure activities of children and young people, there is also a moment here. When we in the government parties have got the word that we don't care that the prices run smoothly, I will characterize an increase of 50 kroner or 40 kroner per month that don't run smoothly. This isn't ridicule. It's a prioritization of a priority. I believe that it is important to get this offer as cheap as possible, but if I had been a local politician today, I would probably have prioritised the income differentiation of the payment, rather than making it cheaper for everyone at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e651	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e654	The majority has previously stated that the cultural school offer should be an offer for everyone. What has not been said about is the extent or quality of the offer. What we know is that the cultural school offer is very good across the country, and that development has gone to the point where today's offer is much more than music schools. Fortunately, it is legal for all municipalities to have a cultural school offer for children and young people. In fact, this offer is also for adults, not least in the case of instructions for choirs. Int. S. No 50 for 2003-2004, The Cultural School, the majority say it so strongly that it can be shown ‘to examples where the cultural schools act as a cultural hub for the schools in a municipality’. I see it as absolutely necessary that the cultural schools and those responsible for culture in the municipalities are also responsible for coordinating the cultural school bag. Therefore, it is not strange to me that the cultural schools should be under the Ministry of Culture, so that the overall cultural offer is under the same department. The value of today's cultural schools is very great, not only the value of giving children an understanding of art and culture, but also the value of creating performers, but the value of the experience that has been done, among other things. at the cultural school in Larvik with children with social problems and concentration difficulties. These children are child-restraint children, and both child-rescue and social services must admit that cultural expansion has helped more than therapeutic conversations with psychologists. The keyword is "mestring". Culture schools meet their children at the level of their children, and from there they develop. It creates rapid progress in and interest in ordinary school subjects as well. These children have gained self-confidence and an identity that infects both home and school. But you don't have to do project work for all children to go to and thrive in the cultural school. The ideal thing would be that the cultural schools were free. Only then could we say that it was an offer for everyone. But a roof would be very positive for parents with more children could afford to let their children go to the cultural school. Municipalities have previously received earmarked grants from the State. This has been a pleasure, even though the grant should have been larger – 45 p.m., after the Eikemo Committee's decision. The joy has been that in large agglomerations, children have had to wait in line to enter the cultural school. In smaller places, several municipalities have merged on the cultural school offer. This has now worked very well, among others. in Southern Greenland. There this has been the biggest cultural effort for children and young people since 1989. The cultural school is «an engine and a resource in the rest of the school environment». in an opinion of a unanimous assembly in Northernland. The earmarked resources for the cultural schools have helped to ensure that this intercommunal cooperation in Helgeland has been able to function at all. Following the majority decision between the government parties and the Progress Party in the revised national budget to include the state subsidy to the cultural schools in the framework of the municipalities – the Labour Party voted against – we see that the municipalities have a different priority. At the same time, the upper roof of the parental payment was removed. In many municipalities, the parent payment increases, and some people think it can actually reach NOK 4000 per person. children in the future. In principle, the Workers' Party is not opposed to incorporating some earmarked grants into the municipalities' framework, but it is very unfortunate in a situation that is now, when most municipalities have a very difficult economy. I believe that, like for kindergartens, it should certainly be a top thank you for the parental payment in the cultural schools. Index regulation may be discussed if necessary, but at least it must be a ceiling, so that parents have predictability and that all children have an opportunity to exercise their interests through cohesion and artistic development in a cultural school. It cannot be possible for the government to believe that the cultural school should be legal only for children of rich parents, and that it should be a school only for an elite.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e681	The work and contact with art and culture both at school and in connection with the school motivates, engages and inspires very many students and teachers. It makes the students aware of their own talents. It allows most people to find something they master, and something they can enjoy. This also increases the knowledge of your own creative abilities, which is very important. It stimulates curiosity — it gives life content, simply — and it makes the students aware of what may eventually be what is called ‘effective learning strategies for themselves’ in the more ‘school’ language. So art and culture are important in themselves, but they can also be important as invading sports to or as an integral part of the more traditional subjects and traditional training. Thus, art and culture have positive effects both on well-being, on learning and on human quality of life, on tangible and intangible value creation in a society and on our capacity for innovation and entrepreneurship. The art and culture at school and in connection with the school take many forms in Norway. It can be my own subject, which I've been in, it can be cultural activities across disciplines, for example. reading activities or the use of music in mathematics training, there may be purely cultural and artistic activities in schools, such as: setting up a theatre performance or contact with professional cultural life at school or outside school. Overall, I believe that this activity and this work are of very high quality in Norway. I think it might be a little under-communicated in the debate. First, there is a large amount of activity and work. Many hours are given to these subjects, and there are many participants in the activities at school and outside the school, even in the cultural schools. There are often, but not always, high levels of competence among teachers. There is very good recruitment for many arts and cultural subjects further up the education system for higher education, and it keeps very high quality among the candidates. We're also recruiting a lot of high-quality professionals. The challenge of this background is, in my view, to maintain and further develop what is so good, and, on the other hand, to try to see the links between this which is so good, and which works so well, to what may be problem areas in Norwegian school, such as the Netherlands. Reading skills, which can often be improved by improving literacy by investing in literature and libraries. The message gives a broad and, in my opinion, impressive, not in the sense that it is impressive, the ministry has written, but an impressive impression and an overview of the art and cultural activities in and in connection with the schools in Norway. I'm glad the committee appreciates that overview. I don't think there are so many countries, if anything, that could present an equally broad and qualitatively good picture. In addition, the Communication provides an overview of key actions related to the Government’s comprehensive plan to strengthen literacy and literacy, including funds to strengthen school libraries and library competences, and actions related to the cultural school system, where funding will increase and strengthen school opportunities. The communication mentions the music and cultural schools, which were the original order from Stortinget, and the real subject matter, because they also have implications, for example: in the case of grants to science centres, entrepreneurship, etc. It's, after all, a broad consensus on most of this. I am pleased with some of the positive grants given by the Committee for its communication, including: by asking for more talent development programmes or talent development programmes in several areas. But it's one exception, and it's about earmarking the allocation to the cultural schools and setting a ceiling on the payment rates. The minority believes that political governance is necessary. That is what I mean in my opinion, too, but I trust that political governance can take place locally. It has happened until now, and it has happened in a very good way. There have been wanted visions here. I can say that the government has a vision of local freedom of action, both for schools and for municipalities. It is linked to our democratic sustainability, and it also has cultural dimensions. We think it'll be easier to reduce the waiting lists through greater freedom. I believe that the rate of school money you operate at is social. But there is no disagreement that the music and cultural schools are a positive offer that needs to develop, that the Norwegian School Council of Culture has done a good job, and that it plays an important role in the development of competences, networking, etc. I take note that the Committee believes that the Council of Culture Schools should play an even more central role than that provided by the Ministry in its communication. I don't think this is a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e707	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e710	State Secretary Helge Ole Bergesen spoke freshly about the cultural schools in Dagbladet on February 24. Among other things, he said: ‘increased parental pay contributed to increased capacity and shorter queues in the music and cultural schools’. However, we see that of the project municipalities that have had the earmarked grants included in the framework run since 2002, about half have increased parental pay in the cultural school, some with up to 50 pst. That says Bergesen is a ‘messageed increase’. We are, as much as the Right, concerned with the local freedom of action, but we believe that it is little real as long as the Government conducts a policy that pushes the local economy. If the Government absolutely believes that increased parental payment gives more children the opportunity to participate, does it also believe that the price of SFO and other important municipal services should be further increased? Can the Council of State determine whether it is the Government’s position that higher parental payments should generally be the way to expand municipal services?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e717	There have been calls for visions in this debate. I have tried to see if anyone else has had any. It could possibly be “peace, freedom and everything free”! It's probably our vision that we should try to reduce the designation and detailing of both municipalities and schools, because we think it revitalizes local democracy, and because we believe designation in one area may have positive effects right there, but will easily have negative effects on local democracy and other areas. This has strong support among local politicians from all parties. Designation shall be used when phased in a task. When a task is phased in and has become a natural, ordinary part of the business, it shall end with designation. That's what we've been doing. Otherwise, I think the payment is moderate. ==References== 2,000 dollars a year is half of what it costs to participate in a school corps.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e726	If we don't have what we can call vision, at least we have an ambition to connect things. For work on culture at school, the cultural school is important. School libraries are important for working with culture at school. In order to achieve the content of the cultural school system, we also need to have the money, in conjunction with what is mentioned above, namely cultural schools and school libraries, and the role that the Committee actually has in this setting indicates that the cultural school should have in facilitating the cultural school system. Does the Council of State see that there is something to prevent the municipalities, which are both the owners of the vast majority of schools in our country and the cultural schools, from making such a monetary link? I remember that the cultural school bag probably has 120 million. kr this year, and a last allocation of State resources, above the 2003 budget, was well over 90 million. kr. So here's a bunch of interesting sizes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e731	The answer to the question of whether I believe there is anything to prevent the municipalities from seeing this in the context is no. I believe that there is nothing in principle in the way of that. The cultural school system, of course, has a perspective on how to connect school with professional cultural life. Then we have the cultural schools, and then we have the schools and the cultural activities that are going on there. It is already the case that there is money from the cultural school bag, for example. for measures to strengthen literacy and school libraries related to the school. But there's nothing in principle about local planning in the municipalities that also includes the cultural school, as I see it. Of course, we are following up the decisions taken in the Grand Duchy in this area. Someone has said that it has to go a little bit later. We follow up the decisions that concern national bets and bets in the municipalities and how they are to be distributed, but I can't see that there is anything in principle in the way of it if there are such local plans and wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e738	With regard to the talent development programme, the Committee is taking two important steps – and I think it is very good that we have set up such a programme in the field of music. One is that we say that cultural schools should also play an important role in relation to the programmes that are now to be developed, precisely because they are the first to discover the talents and have the opportunity to link them to the higher education institutions and to those who will be responsible. The second thing we're doing is we're saying that this should be extended to not just music, but more forms of art expression, and we're clear that we need to develop programs in these areas as well. Ballet University has already started a talent development program, where they have brought in a group of students aged 16 or around. It is an important programme for developing and offering an offer to young dancers. The first year is over, and the question is whether this should be continued with a new group. My question to the Council of State is, is she aware that this is about to die for us? And is she willing to contribute money, so that we can continue this programme developed within the ballet?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e745	Point 1: I am pleased with the initiative taken by the Committee to extend the talent development programme, in the sense that it will cover several cultural and artistic expressions. I'll be happy to follow up on that – I think that's very nice. I am also aware of the matter that the representative Rikham mentions when it comes to ballet college. But I think it's been very clear on the assumption that it was a one-off grant, and that the school had to finance it within its own budgets in the following years. If you look at the budgets that the school has had, the growth that has been in recent years, and what pressures the school has not taken in relation to some others, I think it's a good idea to do the same. But I haven't had any direct dialogue with them so far, so that's how I see the matter as it is now. If there is a more direct dialogue, I may have to return to what the conclusion of it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e752	The Council of Culture Schools has developed a framework for the cultural school, «Towards diversity». In fact, we use the word "precious" in the setting in relation to the work that the Norwegian Cultural School Council has done. This framework plan will be implemented, I think, around the municipalities as time passes. I think there's a need for funds for that, and I want to go back a little bit to the development funds. I would like to ask the Council of State how she assesses the means of development in the future development of the cultural schools locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e757	It is not easy to have a debate in Norway without it being about money, nor when we talk about culture and vision. I just get to say it this way when the representative, Mr. Schjälaa, asks me how I view the importance of development funds, that I see it as important. Of course, if the representative asks me what they are going to be in the future, I cannot answer that, as this is not a budget debate. But let me say a little bit, since this has been called visions. My vision for the music and cultural schools is that it should be a diverse and wide and varied offer culturally and locally, and that it should provide opportunities for many people and many children and young people to develop their abilities and talents. I believe that the task of the state is to facilitate it, but my vision is probably not as much related to what the state can do – government governance and regulation, which I have noticed that some representatives here express. I think that when it comes to visions of culture, you also have to have visions of civil society and the private sphere, because all creativity is not in the Stortinge or in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e764	The councils opened their posts with praiseworthy words about what art and culture means to our children and young people. But the characteristic of the Government's message is that it is immaculate and little visionary, and that with the government's arrangement it will actually be difficult to give more children this offer. And if we're going to be completely honest, it might be like this for us politicians that if we don't have enough will or desire to invest enough resources in this room, it might be politically comfortable to hide behind municipal autonomy. I don't think it's a single party in this room who doesn't trust local freedom in the municipalities, but this is just about the ability of municipalities to carry out their tasks and follow them up. The consequence of the arrangement we adopt today is going to mean increased parental pay. My question to the Council of State is whether she can provide a guarantee that this will stop for a sum of NOK 2000 per year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e772	With all due respect, there are a lot of people who have wanted visions. I have not heard a single vision, other than that of earmarking and payment rates, budgets and money. That's what this whole debate is all about -- it's so I'd be afraid to refer it if I met some of my colleagues abroad. We're so quiet in Norway. What we're talking about here is a payment rate in the order of payment – if it increases this price trend has been since the rate was set at NOK 1600 – NOK 2000 per year. As I said, it's approx. Half of what it costs to be in a school corps — there are additional hard work activities. And I have no faith that this should affect the vast majority, that they cannot participate in this. There may be some, but the municipalities are free to rate their rates and give better conditions for those who need it. It should also be remembered that there have been waiting lists here, and that this gives municipalities the opportunity to let more people in, to develop the offer. And as I said, I think municipal politicians have the same sense that we have, that they will be concerned with the same visions that we might be concerned about, and that we can therefore have confidence that this is developing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e777	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e780	The role of the school as a cultural carrier is at risk of being forgotten in a world that is concerned with the usefulness of education and the competitiveness of industry. But it is precisely in such a world that we need to become conscious of the cultural heritage and the artistic expressions, and practice our ability in cultural participation and various forms of expression. I fully agree with the Government when it says in the message: ‘As a cultural carrier, the school itself is part of a cultural context, and the school is responsible for the dissemination and visibility of values and norms in a local, national and global perspective. The school shall contribute to the basic and overall competence of each student. Cultural competence is a natural, integrated and important part of it.» The challenge is to turn this description into a practical policy and avoid festivities. For the Christian People's Party, the training of cultural capital has always been important. This belongs in a holistic learning vision and in the overall competence we want to equip young people with. That's why the Christian People's Party has been a proponent to get a music school offer for children and young people. We were a driving force to give state funding to the music schools, we welcomed an expansion of the content of the offer, so that we now talk about cultural schools. The Christian People's Party was keen to legislate for the cultural school offer in the Education Act, and I think it is an advantage for the cultural schools that they belong in the Ministry of Education. And there I disagree with the representative, Torny Pedersen. Time is now ripe to link this activity closer to school. Therefore, it is exciting to maintain the training provision while making cultural schools a cultural educational resource centre in the municipalities. This is a new challenge for the cultural schools, but at the same time an opportunity to strengthen the school's work on culture. Together with the resources of the cultural school system, in combination with the cultural pedagogical experience and resources of the cultural schools, training in schools can have a more active cultural content. This is a development The Christian People's Party welcomes and will follow up nationally as well as locally in the years ahead. In many municipalities, cultural schools are an important part of cultural life and the strategy for good quality of life and a good growth environment. In these municipalities, cultural schools have a strong local political anchor. I even come from a state, the North Throne Team, where cultural expressions and experiences are important parts of everyday life. Cultural schools are important tools for making children and young people involved in this everyday life. This local policy outreach is very important in order to further develop the content and scope of the offer. From the cultural school sector itself, there is now a warning against reduced activity as a result of tight local government budgets and increased demands for self-payment. This Christian People's Party will follow closely. Excessive self-payments can lead to distorted social recruitment to cultural schools and weaken the possibilities of making cultural schools an offer for all students. At the same time, local policy anchoring is the best anchor to ensure the attention and resources of cultural schools. The Christian People's Party will continue to work for a good cultural school offering for children and young people. We are therefore pleased that the Stortinget now points to the framework plan for the cultural schools, which the Council of Culture Schools has established as the basis for further developing and consolidating the cultural schools. The Christian People's Party believes that the content of cultural schools must be secured in a good and equivalent way. We are therefore open to introduce a regulatory home into the Training Act that can provide access to ensure the quality of content, and are pleased that the majority is asking the Government to come back with an assessment of this. Such quality assurance of content will be a natural further development of our cultural school offering. A law provision may also provide the Storting with a means of imposing a cap on excess prostheses if their increase is too large and at a level which makes it difficult to achieve the 30 pst scale target. of the infantile cavity. The Christian People's Party will, as you know, follow closely in the development of the excesses. Finally, art and culture in and in relation to the school provide opportunities for a more diverse learning environment. Diverging the art and knowledge of training is a little fruitful. I therefore agree with the Council of State when she describes the challenge as seeing the possibilities of art, culture and knowledge development. Here are many exciting opportunities and challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e800	I am pleased that the big message ‘Not Just to Light’ addresses how cultural competence strengthens our ability to tolerance, curiosity, creativity and change, which may be the most important characteristics of future societies, where creativity, innovation and adaptability are often identified as the main success criteria. This tomorrow's society is created through the focus on quality at all stages, with school as the most important thing. Unfortunately, emphasis on quality has often been neglected. Art has been perceived as something that belongs to leisure, or perhaps just to desire, if you like. In a political context, it is also those who believe that it is impossible to use quality criteria in relation to culture. This, of course, is wrong. As for all other subjects, the quality criterion must also be the focus when we talk about these subjects. So how do we approach the question of quality in the teaching of art and culture? For example, quality can be about distinguishing what you see and hear, distinguishing the general, the obvious, the cheap and the banal expression from the original, what triggers the thought, excites curiosity and creates new appetites. Quality is about seeing the underlying craft, the elaborate, what represents an overall artistic line through the years, perhaps through a long-lived life, from the random, the superficial, and the unintended inconsistency. Quality is about what is deliberately and accurately moving us, and appeals to feelings and associations we don't know about so often a day. The quality of the teaching situation must include, inter alia: means the ability to mobilise the qualified and problematic conversation and knowledge in relation to putting the substance into a broader context that creates meaning and perspective. This requires knowledge about the subject, and it requires knowledge about the subject itself. Essentially, these must be skills we expect from the teacher. Of course, well-qualified teachers also in the arts and cultural fields are necessary. This is an important point that it is important to emphasise at a time when we also urgently need to strengthen teacher competence in key subjects such as Norwegian, foreign language and real science. In addition to the teacher’s contribution, the aim must be to strengthen education by actively involving external competence. Art and art understanding are demanding subjects, where even students with well-schooled teachers will enjoy contributions from the trade unions. Many artist groups today have considerable competence in the dissemination of their subjects. Today’s authors, for example, have great training in meeting the audience, whether at festivals or in the direction of libraries or writing workshops. Actors are the mediators of subjects, and in the field of visual arts workshops are an established form of work. Many museums have come a long way in the schooling of their own employees, in particular with a view to bringing the drug to life for students. So we have to assume that the arts and cultural subjects need to find their place in school everyday life on a qualitative basis. Quality criteria in education can also be identified for these subjects, and our teachers need to have a better knowledge of what this implies. Schools should use the flexibility they now have to draw artistic competence into education and actively build bridges between school and cultural institutions. In short, art and culture are subjects where we need to make qualitative demands, just as we need to have quality in focus for the whole school system and for all other subjects. Art is not an exceptional area, rather the opposite. Art is a demanding form, which may not be so easy to measure, but which nevertheless has very clear and definite criteria for how to maneuver, even in relation to creating a quality-proof education. So let's give the students the joy of art, the subject of joy for the individual, whether we should nevertheless join the text, the little reminder, in the prosceny of the Royal Theatre, namely that art is «Not just of Light», which is also the title of the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e828	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e831	I agree with the Council of State that this is a debate that has not had the big visions, but we can say that at least it has been a good day for municipal autonomy. We in SV also believe that municipalities will ring about the cultural schools. That's not what worries us. We're pretty sure that the cultural schools will survive, even if both the ear tag and the cap of self-payment are gone. But in particular, the ceiling on self-payment has been important for this to be an offer to the greatest possible extent. The cultural schools are a unique offer. Not many countries have such a structure that we have in Norway. There are many countries that look at Norway to learn. It is important that we be able to take care of it, develop it further and put the necessary ‘driving’ behind this offer. Our vision is that this should be an offer for all children, that in all municipalities there should be a cultural offer for all children – it could be theatre, it could be music, it could be ballet, etc. There shall be an offer for all children to take part in and the possibility of receiving this offer shall not depend on their parents’ wallet. That's the vision we have. Then we also have a vision that cultural competence should be part of primary school competence. Cultural competence is going through all of our education. This cultural competence shall be assimilated to other basic competences such as reading, writing and the type of skills. It's our vision, and it's a great vision – but we still want to lift it up and make it visible through what we've written in the setting. We have also tried to communicate that in this debate. As I said in my reply to the Council of State, we are pleased that we have achieved a talent development programme, and that the Council of State has been involved in driving forward a programme of talent development in music. We extend this to other forms of expression, so that we can capture talents within other expressions and give them an offer. I'm a little worried about what's now happening at Ballet University, I noticed in the answer from the Council of State that there has not been a dialogue with the Ballet University. In any case, my appeal is that the Council of State, in the dialogue that comes, must ensure that we secure this programme further, and that we are able to take care of what has been developed, so that one can also bring up students, or students, for the autumn. We must not get into a situation where this is going to be gone for us, crumbling away for us. It will be if not an accident, so at least look for us who are busy developing and having good talent development programs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e846	There was one thing I didn't want to mention in my post, which I feel the need to mention. I said that I think that the committee, and the majority, have given a good opinion, and given an important contribution to the notification. But at one point I'm a little skeptical, and I feel it's right to express it, that's where the committee calls for the Norwegian School of Culture Council to be a professional body when assessing applications for so-called demonstration or model schools. I agree, of course, that it can provide advice, but is perhaps something more skeptical for it to choose, among other things. for the following reasons: not all municipalities are members of the Council. When the Council manages development funds in the budget of the cultural schools, it may be unfortunate that they at the same time point out the demonstration schools. Thirdly, a demonstration school may well be one that has not received development funds. In view of this, I would like to ask that the Department should at least be allowed to make a more detailed assessment of this, so that we do not bring ourselves into what may be problems of stability or legitimacy. It is therefore a purely formality I bring up in many ways in this regard that the Learning Centre – the future Education Directorate – should perhaps then be a professional body, as a more independent body in relation to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e853	I think the state council's comment instead of the fact that the debate was completely lacking visions, was little descriptive of what I was sitting and listening to. I noticed that most of the main contributions from all the parties focused on a good deal of things about what they wanted with the cultural school, and what's nice is that here's the big and broad consensus in the Storting – about the importance of the cultural school, about development and content, that one should not exclude anyone from getting an offer. So I think it was a little undeserved criticism. I am not surprised that what is actually political disagreement is what dominates the political debate. It is about whether you are willing to follow the visions and ensure that an actual development is out of proportion to the resource you can do – and I mean both locally and centrally. At this point, there is a major political divide. I tried in a previous line to suggest that last year it was the school vacation scheme – one would take away earring, put it out to the municipalities and would like to ask the municipalities to take all the costs from the parents. Now it's the cultural schools – away with ear-marking, more self-payment. This also applies to young children’s parents. I think it is important to point out that we see a great danger both in the possibility of developing the offer – we do not want it to happen by paying more costs – and we see that one can actually exclude someone. I record that the government parties believe that it should be earmarked, when they want a task to be solved in a desired way in the municipalities, and the government parties also have a wish target of at least 30 pst. I wish they had a vision that everyone should get an offer – but they have a goal. We don't think it's satisfactory when it's just 13 pst. In fact, by the average of children and young people who receive an offer in the cultural school, we believe that it is too early to remove that ear tag and remove the roof. Government parties also consider that the Council of State should follow developments closely. Does that mean that they're a little worried, but not so worried that they're in our position? Then my question becomes: how will the Council of State follow developments, and will she suggest boundaries in relation to the possibility that something might result in action? I perceive a significant difference in what I heard from the representative Lyngstad, and what I heard from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e864	The right spokesperson in this matter, Jan Olav Olsen, spent quite a lot of time at the Council of Culture Schools and the Council's function and tasks. He was very clear that when the committee very strongly underlined the position of the Council of Culture Schools, it was because it would prevent unnecessary bureaucracy and make the path simple and straightforward, so that they would develop into a centre of competence in relation to the municipalities and the municipal schools of culture. But when that's said, I have a great deal of understanding of what the Council of State deals with in the field of demonstration schools – possibly the designation of demonstration schools, as I understood it – that there must also be the new learning centre – I still call it the ‘learning centre’ – go into and play the role that the Council of State wanted, precisely because not all municipalities are members of the Council of Culture Schools. On it we are assured that all municipalities that have cultural schools will be evaluated. Having said that, I think what we're writing about the Council of Culture Schools is very important. We underline its role and function and develop it into an important centre of competence – with the arguments used by Jan Olav Olsen. I think that we have finished the debate on earring and thanks. There's a majority here in the hall who want to remove the earring, and there's a majority who want to remove the roof. My call to the municipalities is therefore that they do not release the prices, but try to keep the prices down so that this is an offer for everyone, so that no one is out of the question because they simply cannot afford it, which was the case in Tromsø, where people did not accept the offer when they were told the new prices. We have to avoid that situation. An economist would say that there is something wrong with the price when there are long waiting lists that we have now. If one drops this freely, we'll get a price where there's a balance between supply and demand. So in this case, the price is too low if you're going to use such a simple economic reasoning. But I hope that's not the way we're going to get rid of the waiting lists, that is. by increasing prices, so that many of those who are least advised cannot accept this offer. Therefore, it is very important that we be able to encourage the municipalities to keep the prices at a level that allows children not to be squandered because many parents cannot afford to accept this offer. This is an important offer for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e877	I have three things that I would like to comment on, for the first Council of Culture Schools, its tasks and place in the system. It is clear that we stand on what is stated in the communication and believe that it is important concrete clarifications. In the case of demonstration schools, we're actually saying: ‘In this context, the majority share the Ministry’s proposal to assign some cultural schools as demonstration schools. Furthermore, the majority believe that the award of the status of a demonstration school or a model school follows the same procedure as for primary school, but that the Norwegian School Council of Culture is the professional body in the evaluation of the applications.’ The Culture School Council shall participate in and evaluate the applications. But it is clear that it must be up to others to make the final appointment. Then the representative, Bjørnstad, was worried about whether we were worried. We may not be so very concerned, but we feel enough that there is reason to follow developments, so there will always be reason when something that has been, is no longer there and there will be a new situation. That's what we're saying in our comments. What we also refer to is the comment of the members of the municipal committee who are inside the budget. S. No 5 for 2003–2004. The majority, i.e. the government parties and the Workers' Party, have a very strong comment on parental pay and that the Ministry and the Government must follow along. We're on it. Since I have some time, I will be allowed to support the representative of Rikvam in the field of ballet college and what is happening there in relation to this group, 15-16-year-olds. The committee has been to the Ballet Hochschule in Oslo, and we have seen what is being done there in relation to this group of young, talented dancers. I strongly recommend that the school be given the opportunity to follow its programme and schedule. Whether or not to do so within its own means, may be brought up to the Council of State in the dialogue she is going to have with the school. But I think it is important that that dialogue be conducted. This is a programme which should be able to be followed up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e891	I would like to say a little bit to what the Council of State said in relation to the Norwegian Council of Culture and the appointment of demonstration schools. When the majority has been so clear on the role of the Norwegian School of Culture Council in this area, it is because the Norwegian School of Culture Council has a great and broad competence in this area. They have a network, and they've at all done a development work through the cultural schools, a work that's been very important because the cultural schools have actually become what they are today. When it says that the Norwegian School of Culture Council should be the ‘disciplinary body’, it means more than that there should only be a council that is consulted or from which advice is given. We believe that the Norwegian School of Culture Council should be the body that says this on the basis of a professional assessment, so the Learning Centre gets to be the formal body that appoints. But we really believe that the Norwegian School of Culture Council should have the very central role in assessing who will receive the status of a demonstration school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e899	I take the floor at the very end of the debate because I feel that the importance of the debate that has been on earmarking and parental pay has been debatable. This is an important principle. It is important in view of how the cultural school has been treated in the past, and it is a whole new turnaround in relation to the cultural school policy that has existed in the past. Designation is not something I've invented myself, which I've invented because I don't believe in local politicians. I have great faith in local politicians. These recordings of earmarking have come from local politicians, come from municipalities that have invested in the cultural school, and that see large losses in transfers of funds to the framework. This is a disclaimer of political responsibility with regard to the desire to invest in the cultural school. Then it doesn't matter if you increase the parental payment by 50 kroner or 100 dollars, or if the percentage increase or increase in the crown is small. In any case, there's an increase, and then you go away from the vision you've had of a cultural school for everyone, and that the cultural school is going to be as cheap as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e906	In addition, the President would point out that the debate on designation is a debate that belongs to the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e909	I need to comment on the last article a little bit. I feel that the representative of Jensen and the Socialist Left does not take over the dilemma that exists between earmarking, government funding and local democratic freedom to prioritise purposes. In the last article, you wouldn't take that dilemma inward. I think, like the President, that this is a debate that went on a year ago. It could have been reversed in the budgetary procedure, but it did not come. There were no parties in this room who found it important enough to prioritize that requirement. That's what I think tells me a little bit about the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e916	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1975]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e932	In Document No: 8:8 suggests Ulf Erik Knudsen, Arne Sortevik and Karin S. Woldseth to introduce students’ right to free schooling at high school. The members of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen propose that the Government should promote legislative changes to this effect. When the majority of the committee does not approve of this, it is because we refer to the county councils as school owners, and therefore it is natural that they also decide the admission rules. Therefore, there are different intake rules from state to state. We live in a long-term country with great geographical differences, different school structures and different needs for school kissing. Some states have so-called free school choices today. Among other things, we have this in Westfold, but it does not mean that students are sure to enter the school that is their first choice. Applicants have the right to enter one of the three basic courses they set up, and are then allocated by grades from primary school. The county councils are responsible for facilitating their provision of secondary education, so that there is dissemination between schools as to the direction, subject and field of activity of the various schools. This has to do with local democracy. The difference between the school owners who have adopted the right to free choice and those who do not have it lies in the admission process. The county councils are responsible for the dimensioning of each school, some of which are cross-border. A joint committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, believes that the county council should continue to have this responsibility. I expect the Progress Party to take up its own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e945	The chairman of the committee, Rolf Rikvam, said in the previous debate that this day was a pure tribute to municipal autonomy – and the Stortinget continues to pay tribute to it. In Document No: Today's 8th proposal is concerned with two principles. One principle is whether students should be free to choose which upper secondary school they are going to attend. This is a principle Right opinion is fair, and it contributes to a good education for everyone. The second principle involved in this document is the principle of municipal autonomy. For the Right, municipal self-government is so important that national politicians should be careful about detailed governance regarding local initiatives and different local solutions. It has shown right through action, by reducing the number of earmarked grants and by simplifying laws and regulations in such a way that the real power lies with local politicians and individuals. There is no doubt as to what input regulations Right-wing municipalities wish to choose for secondary schools. Right-wing recommends that all state politicians vote in favour of an admission regulation that gives students the greatest possible power. Studies carried out by the Swedish Research Department show that students in many counties are already entitled to free schooling, but that the counties have chosen different solutions. It is therefore important for the Right not to impose central solutions that end up with a lower school offer, in danger of the best becoming the enemy of the good. It would be a pity if a central directive would lead to more students becoming alienated in order to be able to take secondary education. The right has confidence that state politicians will choose a solution that is the best for the student. If they do not, the population of the various states will have the opportunity to replace these politicians at the next elections. That is democracy in practice. However, when the Right chooses to focus on the school owner's responsibility and freedom to run their own schools, there are some issues that deserve to be focused on. All too often, there are ingesting problems between the counties and that alternative advanced services are not as well known as the county authorities’ own. This moment will continue to focus on the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e962	A survey in the summer of 2003 showed considerable inequalities between the counties and thus considerable discrimination between pupils. Some states give students the freedom to apply to the school they want, regardless of the location of the school in relation to their place of residence. Other districts are divided into regions within which applicants have to stay. Some counties go so far as to require students to apply for secondary education in the municipality of residence. Students do not initially have the right to choose which school they want to attend. In the eyes of the Progress Party, they should have this right. Free choice of use is an essential principle for the Advance Party, whether it be school, hospital or hospital. This gives me the opportunity to point out that the Progress Party's alternative funding model, where the state pays school money to the school that the student chooses through a single price, makes the student a customer and ensures free school choice throughout the country. The ability to choose school itself is a fundamental right that should be present for all students in all states. On the part of the Progress Party, we have noticed that the other parties in the Committee believe that the county council as a school owner should still decide whether the students should be given a free school choice. For some of the parties, this must obviously be due to the fact that the concern for the future of the county is greater than the desire to influence and increase the quality of the school through the competitive effect of free choice of schools. Here you choose the county rather than the student. The students are customers and the county council only a tool – in our opinion also a useless and unnecessary tool. After hearing the representative Robertsen from the Right, I am tempted to quote from the Right Party program, page 42: ‘Students shall be able to choose their own secondary school. Recording shall be made on the basis of grades. ‘... The question is whether it should apply only in some counties and why it should apply only within a county border, if it remains valid at all. For the Progress Party, it is important that each student should be able to apply on a free basis to the school that is best and most appropriate for the student, regardless of the location of the school in relation to the student’s place of residence. The free choice must apply beyond county borders and cover the whole country. Nevertheless, free choice of school does not mean that all students are safe admissions at the school they have as their first choice. Admissions to each school and/or course shall be ranked according to the grades of the applicants, but the possibility for each student to take place at the desired school, line or course will increase considerably in the light of the Progress Party's view because free choice of school makes the whole country a search area. I am therefore in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that all Norwegian youth are entitled to free schooling in secondary school from the autumn of 2004.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e985	The representative Arne Sortevik has made the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e988	I agree with the Advance Party that free schooling in high school is a good thing. The experience we have had with free schooling in Oslo from 1997 suggests this. Students want to do this — there is an increased well-being among students, there is greater social mobility in free choice of schools, now students can move freely across old borders, students can go to schools that are strong in fields that they are interested in, Oslo has been able to set up thematic schools, and there are as many who get their first choice of free choice, as without. I therefore think it is sad that the majority of Oslo City Council has now decided to abandon the free choice of schools. I hope that the decision will be reversed when the consequences of another intake system emerge. But this is a debate to be held in Oslo, and not here in this Chamber. This is a decision to be taken by the voters and politicians of Oslo, and not by voters and politicians from elsewhere in the country. I am therefore pleased that the majority has rejected the proposal of the Progress Party to centralize this from the Stortinget. It's often tempting to ask others to sort things out if you can't do it even where you are. Right wants greater freedom for school owners, not less. The fear that someone should choose different from what you think is good must not be used to encroach on the framework for freedom of choice, whether it is the individual, the enterprise, the school owner, the municipality or the county municipality. If local democracy is to work, people must have something to choose from. We have to accept that they choose different. That is perhaps the problem of the Progress Party, that not everyone wants to be like them, and that they should not be allowed to choose. The Progress Party is centralist in its policy; as far as possible, it shall be determined as high as possible. Most of the others in this room are not, although it is not always as well followed up, cf. the debate on earring in the previous case. There are many people who are not prepared to accept that people and municipalities choose different. Fortunately, we are in the Right, even if it goes beyond what we think is best, and even if not everyone gets exactly the same offer across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e999	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1976]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e1012	The store is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e1020	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Eva M. Nielsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3, by Eva M. Nielsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the proposals No. 4-6, from Lena Jensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to propose a minimum standard and a standard for staffing at school libraries.’ As far as the President is concerned, the Coastal Party must support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e1049	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The amount requested by the Government is based on a maximum of 10 pst for children and young people. of the total municipal costs of the cultural school.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e1064	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the reintroduction of the earmarked grant to the cultural schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e1079	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to reintroduce the earmarked grant to the cultural schools until other types of schemes that promote participation in the cultural school have been put in place.’; The Labour Party has notified that they wish to support the proposal in a subsidiary manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e1096	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to take the initiative in pilot projects in one or more counties, where teachers from the cultural school are working to enhance the quality of cultural efforts in primary schools, both in teacher training and by pupils.’ The coastal party has announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e1113	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in providing free admission to several museums for primary school students.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-02.ana.ud1209e1142	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that all Norwegian youth are entitled to free schooling in secondary school from the autumn of 2004.’; This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
