ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e80	Honourable co-representatives! It was with sadness that we received the message that the former payroll representative of the Workers' Party, Thorbjørn Kultorp, was gone, 74 years old. Thorbjørn Kultorp was born in Skjeberg in Eastfold. He trained in the agricultural sector, but his job was to be A/S Borregaard, first as works, later as a textile worker. At Borregaard, Thorbjørn Kultorp engaged in trade union work early, and he sat among others. for several years as manager of the Borregaard Textile Workers' Association. The road from trade union work to party politics was short – first to the municipal policy of the municipality of Skjeberg as a member of the municipal board, later as an interim rapporteur, before the county policy caught him. He was here, among others. long-term head of the County School Board in Eastfold. In 1966, Kultorp began to work as a study instructor in the Workers' Information Association. He was deeply concerned with public information and that both adults and young people were to receive education and knowledge. He was concerned with the importance of education both for the individual human being and for society as a whole. Thorbjørn Kultorp was elected to the Stortinget as representative of the Eastfold Workers' Party in 1969. Here he had his seat for three periods. Throughout his working time at Stortinget, he was a member and vice-chairman of the Church and Education Committee. Here, Kultorp continued his commitment in practical policy in order to give everyone equal opportunities for education. I'm so lucky to have my hobby as a job, he said himself. And with strong implementation he worked with and put his mark on, among other things. the law on adult education, the law on secondary education and the first communication on culture in this country. He even said that the work on the Adult Education Act was the matter that had occupied him most. By this law, we reach out with an offer to all groups in society. I think this will be the most important tool in the years to come in our efforts to shape a softer society," he said. Here at Stortinget, Thorbjørn Kultorp gained great respect for his knowledge and work, not only in his own group, but also across party boundaries. He was a good colleague, and through his lukewarm manner of being, his willingness to share insight with others and his positive attitude to life he gained trust, respect and friends. He was happy in his fellow humans, and he had an invaluable ability to listen. But he also had the ability to give his environment good social analysis, knowledge, attitudes and values. After finishing his studies at the Stortinget in 1981, he continued his work as a study adviser in the Labor Information Union. It is in deep respect that we are at peace with the memory of Thorbjørn Kultorp. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e101	The representatives of Ursula Evje, André Kvakkestad and Per Sandberg, who have been on leave, have once again taken up their seats. From the representative of Anita Apelthun Sæle, an application for leave is made from 18 May to 25 May to attend an international conference in Washington. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Pål Kårbø, shall be invited to meet during the period of leave from 18 May to 25 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e135	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 to 5 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e193	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be held in Case No. 1 to 5 will be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and the speaking time will be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e204	The background to the issues we are discussing today is the power crisis we experienced in the winter of 2002–03. It became very clear that the power supply was not good enough, which should not surprise anyone. But the situation hit many, most of those who had the worst income from before, and those who had no alternative to heating than electricity. Many businesses also had problems. One could almost get the impression that the situation came as the Christmas evening on the crumb also on the government, because it was the Stortinget that had to take a number of initiatives, among other things. for remedial measures, such as: making changes to the housing aid scheme in order to achieve results. There are several reasons why the power situation became difficult. That it had rained little the harvest before, of course, was one reason, and it showed us first of all that trusting the weather gods is a risk sport you should not recommend. The power supply in Norway and the Nordic countries is largely based on hydropower. That, of course, makes us very vulnerable to precipitation failure. If the situation was serious last year, the most worrying thing is that the situation only worsens every year. Because even though we took even more measures to reduce the growth of consumption, which is necessary, consumption is increasing much more than production. In a normal year, Norway has a deficit of about 7 TWh, and all forecasts suggest that this gap will only increase. Unfortunately, the government has not wanted to provide forecasts of the growth of consumption, either in the message or on questions from the Committee. The Committee has therefore had to base predictions from others, including: NVE. They estimate consumption in 2015 to 142 TWh. Turning this on and we're not going to do more with the production than the government's message suggests, we're going to have a pretty dramatic situation in the power supply in a very few years' time. Then we have to assume that power prices will increase significantly in the years to come. It will affect households and businesses. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to increase the production of power in Norway. The alternative is that we continue to import highly polluting coal and nuclear power from our neighbouring countries. It cannot be known by the energy nation of Norway. The government's crash message was disappointing. It is far too little concrete and too low a commitment. The ten points of action proposed by the Government in the message do not respond to the main challenges. The Workers' Party supports the Government's ten points, but it has been absolutely necessary that we have concrete measures in the configuration that can improve the power situation significantly more than the Government proposes. There is a broad majority here in Stortinget that the time for the large, new hydroelectric expansions is over. However, hydropower will be the most important power resource in our country. But now it's about exploiting and managing the hydropower we've already built up, in a more efficient way, through upgrading and expansion of existing power plants and, not least, by expanding micro, mini and small power plants. The working party also wants increased use of bioenergy. Here we have a lot to do. In many places, good examples have been given, for example: The bioenergy farm in Hadeland and the extension of district heating plants several places in Hedmark. However, we need to be able to do much more on the part of the authorities, including: to increase the focus on research, as I am pleased that a majority now joins. The working party is also involved in this setting on several proposals for increased use of waterborne heat and biofuels: loan guarantee scheme for infrastructure construction, requirements for all buildings over 1000 m2 to have waterborne heat, increased support schemes in the House Bank and an action plan for the industrialisation of bioenergy, to name a few. The Green Certificate Scheme is in a hurry. I don't think the pace of the government in this matter is particularly impressive. The working party believes that green certificates will be a very important tool in the development of new renewable energy. We're impatient to put this system into use. It is also important that the transitional arrangements are put in place quickly. Just 1 pst. Norwegian gas production is used domestically. When we know what need we have for more power, it makes sense that we send all the gas out of the country and next time it imports back as electricity, without creating jobs here, and without increasing the production of power in Norway. That's why it's high time we realized a gas power plant. It's now probably four years since the Bondevik I government decided to go off on the gas power business. As a result, the Stoltenberg administration was able to grant concession to three gas power plants shortly after. We must be able to see that the zeal of the current government has not been quite overwhelming in being positive to the three gas power stations. There is no doubt that we believe from the Workers' Party that these should have been built. We think it's unfortunate that those who have concessions don't use them. I still hope that those who sit on the concessions will decide to build. But if they were to conclude that they do not want to use the concessions, it is the Workers' Party's clear view that they should not be extended. Instead, others who want to build should get a concession. It is with pleasure that I now register several plans, including: from energy companies around the country wishing to use the gas for power generation. For the Workers' Party, it is a very clear prerequisite that gas power stations should be built according to our climate obligations. We are very concerned that we are able to develop gas power plants with CO2 management. That is why we have proposed several times to set up an innovation company for the environmentally friendly use of gas. The fact that this now appears to be a reality as a result of the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party is therefore very gratifying — even now it seems to be becoming more money for research and technology development in this important area. It will always be a threat to dry years. Even if we were to build a gas station, this could happen. Then it's important that we have tools that we can use. Statnett is such a tool, and we need to make sure that Statnett has the necessary levers to put in place the necessary measures, such as: increased capacity for exchanges to our neighbouring countries, but also reserve capacity. In addition to mobile gas power plants, it is also important that additional turbines can be installed in existing power plants that can be put into service in stressed situations, where possible and appropriate. One project among several that have been brought forward is the Svartisen. The power-processing industry has a proud history in Norway. It has it because the nation has taken advantage of our natural advantage with access to a lot of cheap power. The situation has changed in several ways. We no longer have ample access to power, and the power is no longer as cheap. In a few years, contracts concluded by the industry will expire. This industry will then face enormous challenges. South Norway Aluminum will, for example, A little about 200 million. kr in increased electricity costs per year. years. The Labour Party wants a new generation of power contracts for the industry to be investigated, and I am pleased that a majority here in the United Kingdom is now supporting this. The Working Party is aware that the National Association of Process Industries has carefully assessed this issue and has come to the conclusion that it is possible to find a model in the EEA legislation. For example, Ireland has recently approved a solution. There were high expectations for the message we are handling today. There's several reasons for that. It was such that every time we asked questions, it was shown by the government that it would come back to this message. Many had also expected a thorough review of the Energy Act. Among other things, I have registered that the minister's own party traps here in Stortinget have demanded it. I have not seen such a review that the government has carried out. The Working Party considers that a review of the Energy Act is necessary. It has worked for 12 years, and it is quite natural that it is now being looked at. Something that is natural to look at is, among other things, the obligation of detection, to see what we can do to ensure that we have enough power generation. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions in the vote on which the Labour Party stands alone or together with other parties. Otherwise, I would recommend the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e244	The representative Sylvia Brustad has taken up the suggestions she herself made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e249	Investments in the energy balance sheet have a long-term character. That means that today we are reaping the decisions that were made some years ago. I would then like to remind Mr Brustad that the Labour Party has had five energy ministers since the Energy Act came into force in 1991. I would also like to remind you that in the summer of 1996, the level of water storage was 10 percentage points lower than it was last summer. The Workers' Party Jens Stoltenberg was Minister of Energy at the time. The representative, Brustad, said that it should not surprise anyone that we got the situation we had in the power market in the winter 2002–03. Does the representative Brustad see anything the Workers' Party could have done better to prevent what happened on the power market?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e258	One of the strangest things in this debate is the right-wing behaviour. The Labour Party and the Right have been united in these matters for many years. Not least the question of gas power. We have seen a turnaround from the Right, in opinions, opinions and in the setting, for example. on gas power, and the Right has recently held a national meeting in which, among others: clearly stated that if the concession holders do not make use of it, others should be able to take over the concession. We see nothing of this again in the setting we are dealing with here in Stortinget today. I want to remind you that we were together to award those concessions. I think it is very unfortunate that they have not been used. I still hope that it is possible, because we are totally dependent on building gas plants if we are to get the seal between what we use and what we produce from power. If not, electricity prices will rise. We have given our support to all that Steensnæs and this government has proposed in this respect, for example. hydropower expansion. We even wanted to go further, for example. regarding Sauda, but we didn't get to the right with us either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e265	Energy debates are a constant feature of the Workers' Party that the only gratifying thing is to bet on gas power and build gas power plants, which the representative Brustad has now confirmed in his response. On the other hand, when the Labour Party meets in environmental debates, the party is more Catholic than the pope in terms of our international emissions obligations. From the Progress Party, we have repeatedly challenged the Workers' Party that the position of the party on CO2 emissions – a position which was also confirmed in the Evening Post on 15 April this year – is an attitude that makes it impossible to build gas power plants in Norway. Will the representative Brustad today explain how this is being done in the Labour Party? Or will you – since this is an energy debate – also bet everything on the gas power card and come back to the climate commitments in the next environmental debate, as you have done so many times before?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e272	I think it's important in this case, as in a lot of other cases, to have two thoughts in my head at once, and I think it's unfortunate that the Progress Party doesn't have it. The Labour Party, unlike the Progress Party, is committed to taking care of our environment. This means that it is fully possible to build gas power plants in Norway within the climate commitments we have. I look forward to what the Government is making of proposals in that area. I hope and believe that it presents a scheme that is closer to what is also the system in the EU, which the Workers' Party was in favour of already two years ago. It is clear that we need to stay within the climate commitments we have, but that also means that we need to take some action in a number of other areas – for example. electrification of the socket, which is a very important environmental concept, to mention something. We're going to deal with that. As far as the framework conditions for gas power plants are concerned, as the representative Mr Vaksdal knows, we have clearly stated that we should have the same thing here as we do in the EEA area and in other European countries. So this is completely possible if you want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e281	Similarly to the Progress Party, SV sees that it may be problematic to implement the climate policy that one wants, if one is to say yes to all new gas power plants that one could imagine and that the Workers' Party signals. You'll have to take it from another location, or you'll have to go into the North Sea CO2 injection project, which is proposed by a number here today. But there are some positive notes from the Labour Party, too, because one sees that one has to come up with proposals that sort of stay within the climate goal, among other things. in the case of bioenergy and in other areas, which is positive with the SV’s eyes in view of future objectives related to 2005. So the question is: SV has a package of 20 TWh that does not include gas power plants. If one realized it and got a multiple on it, would it still be essential for the Workers' Party to build impure gas power plants? Question two: I register that the representative Brustad says that one wants to strengthen Statnett. Does it mean that one now lands on the dividend policy that SV has pursued, simply not to take out 90 pst, but to limit itself to 50 pst, and will it now appear in revised?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e292	I am pleased that the Workers' Party and SV, as also the representative of Langeland referred to here, agree on a number of proposals in this setting regarding renewable energy and new renewable energy – not least bioenergy, to take one example. Here, like SV, I believe that there is a large potential that is untapped, and it is clear that we have come very short in Norway, especially if you compare it with a country like Sweden. There's a lot to do here! We also agree, as the representative well knows, on Gullfak, and it is also very important that we manage to realise from the point of view of technology and the environment, but I would also like to say from the point of view of the workplace. So we have to try to realize that. So we believe that the estimate that SV has to take out everything we need from new power generation, in the form of renewable energy, is not as realistic as SV believes. That is why we believe that we should, as the representative then understands, do much more in terms of renewable energy, but we believe that it is not a good thing to close the gap that is constantly increasing, in relation to what we use to produce, if you are not able to get built gas power plants either. That is why we also want to do this: yes, thank you, both – something that SV likes in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e299	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e303	The impact notification on security of supply is a very important notification, especially in view of the situation in the power market in the winter 2002–03 and due to the lack of decisions by many governments. Norway is a country with rich energy resources: hydropower, bio, wind, wave, tide, oil and gas. There is hardly any country in the world that has a better situation with regard to energy resources. Nevertheless, we must note that we are very vulnerable to fluctuations in rainfall, because we have not used energy sources other than hydropower to any extent. There has been a strong trend in electricity consumption in recent decades. Traditionally, we have had a lot of consumption in our environmentally friendly and profitable energy processing industry. However, consumption in industry has remained quite constant, even with a strong increase in production. It is therefore consumption in service industries and in private households that has contributed to the increase in consumption. Norway was one of the first countries to deregulate its energy production. It was, in my view, a very sensible political decision. However, the market is not working well if there is no approximate balance between supply and demand. We have had very little expansion of new power in Norway in recent years, while we have had strong growth in consumption. Although today we have a Nordic market that should be able to balance the varying production of each country, the North is also dependent on rainfall in its electricity supply. It's on this background we need to see St.meld. No 18th@item: The government proposes several good measures, including: a so-called 10-point list. The majority of the Committee joins these measures, but it seems clear that too many measures take a long time before they are fully effective, and the question is whether they are sufficient to meet the challenges in a dry year. The most important thing in the Communication and in the majority’s comments is the consensus that Norway should aim to achieve a balance between consumption and production in a normal year. Such a goal will require a wide range of efforts for more energy carriers, and it will also require us to take a greater part of the gas into domestic use. Gas power plants will make us less dependent on rainfall, and will represent a more environmentally friendly alternative than coal power imports. The government's strong stepping up of research into the CO2 treatment of gas power plants and the establishment of an innovation company in Grenland will hopefully lead to breakthroughs both technologically and economically for such technologies in parallel with the normal gas power plant deployment phase. If we succeed, it will mean that we can get significant input of new power with CO2 management and at the same time a new international technological platform for our supplier industry. A small heart rate: there are some exciting projects for CO2 clean-up and landfilling of CO2 where the technology is requested to be confirmed in pilot plants. With significant private capital, limited financial assistance is sought from the State. The very theoretical way in which such projects are assessed and the lack of ‘not expected here’ syndrome prevents such pilot projects from being implemented. Fortunately, neither Hammerfest Stroem nor Skagerak Energia have given up pursuing such projects. One of the proposals in the Communication that can also give us a boost in our hydropower generation is relaxation in concession requirements for small power plants. It must be a good energy policy and a good rural policy to allow the deployment of small-scale power stations up to 4000 natural horsepowers without extensive concession treatment. The fact that these will then be exempt from our general rules on repatriation could not possibly be a national disaster, as SV tries to explain it. Although we need to supply more electricity to the market, it is also important to pursue the savings measures that can improve the energy balance. Not least in the case of heating large constructions, industrial premises and large residential concentrations, the waterborne heat combined with bioenergy or kogen plants based on natural gas will be able to produce very good results. It is only in an interaction between increased power generation in Norway, the extension of the cable network to the continent and effective saving measures that we can ensure tomorrow's power supply even in dry years. However, it is important that we act quickly and decisively. A new situation such as the one we had in 2002–03 will be difficult to explain if we cannot demonstrate that there are major actions in the short and long term. I also refer to comments and Roman proposals that cover both the big message and the four Document Nos. The eight proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e332	I don't think the right has it that simple in this case. I also heard – with pleasure, I have to say – the representative Onarheim talk about the importance of gas power plants here today. The hearing, which has just been held, adopted several interesting opinions, one of which was concerned. I quote: ‘The National Meeting considers that it is time to implement the gas power plant plans.’ And on the other hand, ‘If the concessions granted are not realised, the Land Summit of the Right considers that alternative projects need to be opened if they can indicate a better total economy and a better energy and environmental benefit.’ This sounds like music in my ears and in the ears of the Workers' Party. I wonder: Why does the Right do not follow up this in this setting, which was the first opportunity to show that they stood for what they meant? And my second question: does the representative Onarheim feel well about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e351	I have learned that feeling well may not be the most important thing in politics, but trying to get something more. It is such that when the representative Brustad addresses this question, she knows that in the government you have to take and give something. We in the right are concerned with generating gas power, but we're not willing to take the concessions from those who have the concession. You may need to apply for a new concession and you may have to apply to relocate concessions. It has to be treated normally. We welcome the fact that such an assessment can be made, but we are not willing to subsidise either the expansion or lower gas prices. We are willing to look at gas power stations according to the same requirements as in the EU and EEA regions. But first there have to be some applications before we can decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e358	After more than two years of right-wing government, we must be able to establish that the party has been relatively invisible in energy policy. I therefore read with great interest many good motions for resolutions to be discussed by the Right at its national meeting a short time ago. However, the outcome of the national meeting was very discouraging. All the good proposals were cooked together for a resolution that was so politically bloodless and toothless that one would almost think it was designed in the Oil and Energy Department. And for sure, a wind farm had been photographed as an illustration in the heading. I would therefore like to ask the representative of Onarheim whether he is comfortable with the fact that the Right obviously no longer has an energy policy, and why the Right today does not propose to increase the concession limit for small power plants to 10 MW, which was the only concrete Røjres national meeting adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e365	The motions for resolutions were dealt with very carefully and properly, and there were also opinions that I believe we can support. As for this increase to 10 MW, I can see that it may be a good alternative, but I think it is very good that you take the first step at least, so that you can get to 5 MW. It is then important that we do not make so many rules and regulations that it is not possible anyway. Now it is important that we stand by what we have said in the comments, and that we ensure that this increase in the concession limit up to 5 MW is implemented. If you're going to start fooling about how relapses and other things can be brought into this, I think we've done a bad job. Then I think it'll take longer to get there and really get the power that it's possible to get out of the small power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e374	It is with pleasure that I have registered the movement of the Government and the Right in relation to it until now a little reliable position on the EEA Agreement. From being the best-selling boy in the EU class, government parties are now agreeing on a majority proposal to award a new generation of power contracts for power-generating industries, adapted to the industry’s need for power at competitive prices and with clear energy efficiency targets under EEA legislation. My question is therefore: is this a sign of a new line from the Government? Perhaps we can also have movement in another area, and my other question is therefore: When can we see the Right as a champion of increased investment in the industrialisation of new renewable energy? Here, in the SV's view, we have enormous opportunities to create new and sustainable jobs while at the same time strengthening security of supply. We hope that, in the long term, we will be able to get the government parties and not least the right to join the team in getting forward the initiative, industrialisation, in this area in Norway. When will the Right be at the head of this type of industrial journey?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e381	Unlike the Socialist Left Party, we want to play on many horses and try to produce a diverse and diverse energy market. Then we fully understand that we have a lot to do in relation to bioenergy. We also have a lot to do with wind power – even though I see a lot of problems with it – and this is where Enova's side is going. Now we also have to think about what can really solve our long-term problem. We have a lot of gas, and I think it makes sense that we are now working very intensively to solve the climate problems in terms of gas and thus become world leaders in the whole energy sector. It's not least to clean gas for CO2 so that we can be both environmentally friendly and a leading energy nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e386	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e389	The lack of power in the Norwegian and Nordic systems has been exacerbated for several years, and the increasing gap between supply and demand is driving prices in the weather and endangering security of supply. Many power development projects were postponed or scrapped when we got the new Energy Act early in the 1990s. This was due to the fear that customers would use their market power and shop where it was the cheapest at any time, and thus drive prices downwards. However, it turned out that this fear was largely unfounded, and many of the power development plans were again attempted. But it turns out to be difficult, because now government and biging say no to the further expansion of power. And so many people say, power market doesn't work, we don't get an increase in power generation. This is, of course, true, but it is not because the power market is not working, it is because a majority of the politicians in this Chamber actively intervene in the market and prevent increased power generation. Despite numerous warnings, from NVE, from Statnett and from others, the vast majority of hydroelectric projects that have been treated have either been severely reduced or rejected in their entirety. At the same time, we have seen a steady increase in power consumption in Norway despite many costly additional measures, and despite the fact that our power-generating industry has become among the most energy-efficient in the world. This does, as I said, that the gap between supply and demand in terms of power is increasing, security of supply is being weakened, we need to pick up more and more power from the outside, and prices both to the consumer and industry are rising. Last winter, we were seriously experiencing the result of this obviously flawed energy policy. Two dry harvest months caused the entire Norwegian power supply to collapse. Sky-high power prices that forced many to go the heavy road to the social office were one of the results. Preparations for disconnection and rationalization were started, but fortunately it was not necessary to put this into practice. Not least thanks to the decoupling in the power-processing industry that released power to general supply, we got through the winter last year. For us in the Progress Party, the last year's crisis was not particularly unexpected. For many years, we had warned what could happen if we did not provide for an increase in power generation and a better balance. And at the time of the power crisis, we also promoted a number of proposals that, both in the short and long term, would remedy the situation. But even then it was not willing to take the necessary steps to get control of the situation. The vast majority of our proposals were voted down, and the Government claimed that there was work to be done on a roll-out on security of supply that would meet these challenges. And that's this message, which came one year after the crisis occurred, we have to deal with today. The Government submits a ten-point plan to ensure that security of supply is ensured and that such situations as the one it had last year should not occur. I have difficulty taking this so-called plan seriously. A number of measures and objectives have been merged in the plan, including: proposals for changing billing procedures to electricity consumers. I see, of course, that in a difficult situation, many people can benefit from splitting up the electricity bill, but I cannot understand what this has to do with security of supply. Unfortunately, the measures outlined in the Communication will only have a marginal impact on the power balance and security of supply. Many have argued that the Government aims to phase out the power-processing industry more than to increase power generation. I take this very far from it, and I would like to ask the Council of State in its contribution to confirm that there is no plan to balance the normal power supply with phase-out of industry rather than the necessary growth in production. However, the majority of the majority of the population have not shown any action to ensure this necessary increase in power generation. The majority strongly support the Government’s proposal, and it is also reaffirmed that the time for hydropower expansion in Norway is over. Unfortunately, it has also not been possible to remove the political and economic uncertainty surrounding the construction of gas power plants. Without these two pillars in place, therefore, we still face a very uncertain future in terms of security of supply. The Progress Party is today promoting the necessary proposals to ensure ample access to power at reasonable prices, both for the consumer and for business. We want to re-examine previously rejected and environmentally friendly hydropower expansions. We will facilitate the upgrading and expansion of existing hydropower plants, and we will facilitate gas-based power generation by eliminating the political and economic uncertainty created around future emission requirements. This, in addition to strengthening cooperation and exchange mechanisms with our neighbouring countries and ensuring that Statnett has the necessary tools for critical periods, is what is needed to ensure that both industry and consumers are able to operate. I had hoped that the situation we had last winter would have affected both government and greatness, but unfortunately it does not seem that the majority will take lessons from what happened. At least it should be interesting to remember our proposals, which are being voted down today, the next time the power crisis comes. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e410	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e416	The party of progress is bubbling like a foothold in its rhetoric in energy policy. This may have an effect on opinion, but in relation to energy production it doesn't. It is just enough that the Progress Party has voted to build up approx. 2 TWh more than the majority have done, but at the same time the Progress Party has gone against all the opportunities for energy savings, in support of wind power and renewable energy sources. So in reality, the Progress Party owes electricity to the calculation that's been done here in the house. The party of progress is a party that says that they are market liberal, and they think that the market should deal with all the problems. It is just enough that the Energy Act worked well as long as a person had a surplus of power, but she has not generated a new power, and there is mainly a lack of applications that have made one end up in that situation. Could it be that market liberalism does not solve all the problems at this point either?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e427	The representative Aksensen points out that the Progress Party does not support the development of wind power, the subsidisation of wind power and other similar things. That's absolutely right. We don't want to support and subsidize power generation in Norway as long as we have lots of projects on our own. Then the representative Akselsen admits that there is a lack of applications for hydropower expansion in Norway. Here I would like to remind the representative Akssen what happened when we were going to build up the Sauda River suit, when his party helped to halve it. The same was true when we were going to expand in Upper Otta, and I also want to remind the representative Aksensen that his party went against any expansion in the Salt Mountain/Blackland area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e434	The Progress Party has been very critical of the Government's energy policy in two areas in particular, and of hydropower development and gas power plants. Overall, the government has provided more GWh in developed hydropower in the last two years than in the 1990s. The differing position of the Progress Party is 450 GWh in Obere Otta, approx. 420 GWh in Sauda and approx. 1000 GWh in Salt Mountain/Black, at the lower edge of 1,9 TWh. The protective plan currently being drawn up is approximately 3.8 TWh in total in possible expansion. But in other areas, the Progress Party is completely absent. In the case of hydropower and bioenergy, which constitute approximately: 7 TWh, the Progress Party has no policy. It's just going into the notes. The question is then: what would the Progress Party have done to realize the gas power stations that have been granted a concession? Would they have subsidized the gas price? Would the energy price have been subsidized, or would there have been coercive measures against the builder? What would you have done? We need to get an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e445	The representative Halleraker said that the Progress Party was critical of the Government's energy policy. I said in my post that I have difficulty seeing that the government has some energy policy. So he mentioned the differing attitude of the Progress Party towards hydropower projects. But it is precisely, as the representative Halleraker was in the house, a gas and gas power plant bet we have to do something about. That is why we need to clear up the political uncertainty about future emission requirements. Since the representative, Mr Halleraker, asks what we will do in the Progress Party to clear this up, I would like to refer to a comprehensive Document No. 8 recent proposals by the Progress Party on an action plan for the construction of gas power plants in Norway, to be discussed by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e452	It is an almost unanimous committee that supports the proposal to award a new generation of power contracts to power-generating industries, all minus the Progress Party. SV has often been at the forefront of pointing out the problems that the EEA Agreement has caused us, not least in this area. But that doesn't mean we want to slam the door again for an investigation into whether this is possible. Perhaps the investigation will even conclude with the importance of maintaining state ownership in State power? I note the involvement of the representative, Mr. Waksdal, in relation to the long-term power contracts. But why can't the Progress Party then join in and vote for at least getting such an investigation on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e461	The size decided a few years ago to wind up the government power contracts, and we actually had to go two rounds to get this in place. However, this was not initiated by Stortinget, but by the EEA Agreement and ESA, so we actually had no choice. We could, of course, participate in an investigation if it was possible to do something in the future, but the Progress Party and I believe that this is really a derailment of the whole debate. Here we have parties that have consistently opposed to increasing power generation and thereby pushed prices into the weather, and then one is going to get focus away from what's really the problem, power shortage, by creating expectations in the industry that it can do something. I don't think anything can be done. We can hope, of course, that something can be done, but actually this is a derailment of the entire debate to cover the paralysis of action that you have had for many, many years, and to prevent increased power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e468	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e471	The news of the crash that we are dealing with today is based on the scarcity situation that began in the autumn of 2002 and in the winter of 2003. The collapse of a low-water and cold harvest and rapid decommissioning of the water storage plants created a difficult supply situation. Electricity prices rose sharply during the autumn and winter, which hit everyone without a fixed price agreement, i.e. mostly ordinary consumers, economically. SV has noticed that the Government of the notification emphasises that the energy market worked well in this situation. SV believes that the situation gave a good illustration of what happens when such crucial areas of society are left to the free play of market forces. When this message was submitted to Stortinget, SV was very disappointed by the limited analysis by the Government in relation to the challenges facing the power supply last winter, and we were not least very disappointed that the notification does not address the issue that it would have been natural to touch on, given the history of Norwegian energy management. In the message we missed a mention of economic relief measures resulting from high electricity prices the impact of the Energy Act on resource management, consumers and the environment the electricity charge as a consumption regulatory and energy policy instrument congestion due to the structure of the consumer electricity market security of supply with regard to new energy conversion policies and the efficiency of the use of multi-annual magazines; In our opinion, the security of supply of the Norwegian electricity system needs to be understood and improved on the basis that the introduction of the Energy Act in the early 1990s removed much of the political governance of the energy market. In Ot.prp. No 43 for 1989-1990 the Ministry wrote: ‘In a market-based power trading system, a discovery obligation for power generation regulation is unnecessary. Necessary rediscovery will result from the commercial responsibility of energy plants towards customers.’;» In the 1980s and 1990s there was a surplus of power, so that the idea of energy shortages and securing in dry years was not as topical as today. The surplus of power existed due to a historical over-exploitation and was socio-economically very costly and environmentally critical. The deregulation led to the end of the overcapacity of the Norwegian power system and to a reduction in power build-up. However, the Energy Act did not provide for measures to reduce the increase in power consumption in Norway and to increase the flexibility of the energy system, so that it could become robust without having to have a large power surplus. This has been a fundamental flaw in Norwegian energy policy since 1990. SV therefore believes that the long-term security of supply was taken into account when the power industry was deregulated. On the road, the majority supports SV's criticism of the Government. There is an overall committee that points out that households were significantly increased in electricity expenditure last winter, that many were having problems paying electricity bills, and that it was households in the lowest income groups that had the least opportunity to adapt to increased power prices when switching to other energy carriers. A majority of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and SV believe this shows that high electricity costs hit them with the lowest income most strongly and that the Government did not take the situation that started in the winter of 2002–03 seriously enough. Minister of Oil and Energy Einar Steensnæs rejected on 16 October 2002 the fact that electricity prices would rise to 30 p.m., as several said. This assumption turned out to be completely wrong, and the prices were doubled in periods of time. The majority also believe that the Government late in introducing remedial measures to help them with the greatest problems in managing the increased electricity prices, and indicates that a majority of the Stortinge went in to pay a lump sum over the housing aid scheme of NOK 2 500. The majority also do not believe that a reference to the social services, as the Government stated, is a satisfactory solution for those who are unable to pay the electricity bill. This is a criticism that the majority expect the Council of State to take note of. SV believes that last year has shown with all clarity the need for a review and revision of the Energy Act, not only in relation to security of supply and electricity prices, but it is also important to reconquer management with the electricity market in order to include environmental purposes in the Energy Act. The law needs to be revised in order to facilitate people and businesses to choose an additional and renewable form of energy. The framework conditions must be such that waterborne heat and new renewable energy provide sustainable energy use and profitable jobs. In addition, SV is convinced that such an overall energy conversion will be profitable and contribute to a sustainable energy system in line with our international climate commitments. However, it seems, surprisingly, that SV's proposal for a revision of the Energy Act with this starting point is not going to get a majority here today. SV will therefore notify subsidiary votes to the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party for a thorough evaluation of the Energy Act. We thus give this proposal a majority, and thus inform the Government to return to the Storting with any proposals for amendments. With the last winter fresh in memory and the majority's sharp criticism of the Council of State, it will surprise us very much if the Government again would not find the need to make changes. In another area too, the majority of SV’s criticisms of the Government support the Government, and that is the absence in the notification of a thorough analysis of the transmission system. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and SV have, in the setting, shown the problems that have recently been international in terms of security of supply, among others. due to lack of maintenance and supervision. The darkness of New York, London and Northern Italy and of Øresund indicate that security of supply must not be wasted. The government has referred to the robustness of the power system in relation to system and operational failures to a small extent in the notification. In view of these disturbances, where the flow has been over large areas for several hours, there is an alarming absence in a message which, according to the name to be judged, is intended to address security of supply. Such disruptions of operation are very unfortunate and may, in the worst case, affect life and health. In Norway, there have been a very large number of such disruptions, but they have been relatively small and have had relatively small consequences. A broad majority of the committee, all except the Advance Party, determines that the time for new, large hydroelectric power plants is over. At the same time, there are clear signals about a desire for continued expansion, but that it will be about the future to bet on small power plants. I'm concerned that the government here is turning the child out with the bath water, when they refer to the amendments to the industrial concession law proposed in Ot.prp. No 54, which is mentioned in the position. But at the same time, there is a coherent line of government policy that worries. The government is in hiding in the process of implementing a more dramatic change in Norwegian hydropower supply than the introduction of the Energy Act. A few years ago, the government tried to bring about a major change in concession laws, without this being properly investigated, but was forced by the Stortinget to put down a public sample, the so-called Homefall Committee, to assess this in more detail. In addition, the Stortinget will soon deal with the Government’s second attempt to privatise State Power, which is behind the large-scale expansion of small hydropower plants through the Small Power Company. The first attempt was just stopped with reference to the fact that you would first have the Home Affairs Committee's setting on the table. So now the government is once again resolving the concession rules – this time for Small Power – in the middle of the Home Affairs Committee's work, and without it being able to explain the consequences of future hydroelectric installations with investments in the hundreds of millions of years not being covered by the fall-back scheme. This is no less than alarming! Here I will praise LO for not having slept an hour. SV is not against a continued effort on a small scale of hydropower. In this context, we would like to point out that there was an SVS settlement with the Government in the gas message that continued to implement mandatory green certificates. A combination of the Government's attempts to privatise the owner of Small Power, namely State Power, and the removal of the concession obligation for this type of expansion open the way for foreign ownership of Norwegian hydropower resources. I believe, as I said, that the government here in its eagerness to improve the power balance is about to beat the child, the collective ownership and control of the Norwegian people with eternal natural resources, out with the bath water. I therefore hope that in this case, it is finally concluded that the bulk of the population still remains determined by the decision that the Home Affairs Committee should give its opinion before changing the right to return. With this I address the suggestions SV has made in the setting either alone or together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e541	The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e546	Although the Workers' Party and SV separate layers in terms of the gas, and it is not immaterial, we still agree on very much different things in this setting, and the representative Vaggen Malvik himself has been involved in it, everything from renewable energy to power-intensive industry, energy law, etc. It's absolutely necessary things to agree on. But when SV does not dare to take the word "gas" in their mouths, does SV really believe that the suggestions they have in this setting will actually contribute to the decline in prices? Or is it really that SV doesn't laugh so much if the power prices increase? Then I also refer to some previous proposals – and decisions – from SV that would probably go in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e553	I want to confirm the representative Brustad's mention that there are many things Work Party and SV agree on in this setting, but we separate layers once again, as many times before, with regard to the question of gas. We have first processed a gas message no less than a little over a year ago. In the gas notification SV made a settlement with the government parties, where we said we should return to the question of natural gas infrastructure in a separate wholesale message that was to be submitted to Stortinget for processing. We therefore did not think it was right to turn the debate on the security of supply message into a matter of gas, as many other batches have tried. On the contrary, SV has submitted a package of 20 TWh, which we believe is feasible by 2010, which will give the same effect as the gas power stations that the Workers' Party and others are occupied with, and which are hardly going to be built. But our commitment is to renewable energy and energy saving. It's SV's policy and SV's solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e561	The President shall record that the SV dares to take the word ‘gas’ in its mouth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e564	The dry harvest in 2002 had to be a gift from the higher powers to the SV. Finally, there was a higher price of electricity, which could trigger saving and promote further animal investment in renewable energy. SV also wants Statkraft to improve the efficiency of the powerful industry. Does the representative Vaggen Malvik think that Statkraft is better than the powerful industry in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e569	The President will assume that there is no necessary link between higher powers and higher prices. But it remains to be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e572	In the opinion of the Swedish authorities, last winter we were given a clear demonstration of what is happening in a market-based system, where prices can jump into the weather and a small predictable situation for households that have not signed fixed-price agreements. Of course, this is unfortunate, and in this context I would like to refer to the proposal we have made in the dry-year magazine regulation document, where we are just in favour of a change in the structure of the consumer market that will provide greater stability and predictability for Norwegian households. As far as Statkraft is concerned, I would like to point out once again that it is one of the instruments that we are left with when it comes to taking up the power-intensive industry. I hope, of course, that the government's investigation concludes that within the EEA Agreement we can take action to secure the industry. But at the end of the day, I think it'll be about state ownership and using state power to trigger the potential that industry and PIL have pointed to, at 3.5 TWh and corporate economically profitable 2.5 TWh in energy saving.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e579	In the setting, the Socialist Left Party is included in a note together with the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, where a ‘means that Norway must be at least self-sufficient in electricity for a normal year’. If we see this in the light of SV's attitude to power development and production growth, I wonder how this is linked. Will the representative Vaggen Malvik explain to me how this is linked? Does this mean that one should phase out the remainder of the power-processing industry, and should the population return to washing tables and candles?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e586	It is always a pleasure to take on the educational challenge of explaining the links between an environmentally friendly and long-term energy policy! SV has entered the setting for a package that will give 20 TWh by 2010. Then we're talking about 10 TWh on the bioside, 5 TWh on the wind, and 5 TWh on the wind that can be triggered by differentincrease measures. In total, this is at least as important in relation to the balance of forces as these unrealistic, expensive and not least unpopular gas power stations that the Progress Party likes to be at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e593	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e596	The autumn 2002 was unusually nice, with many sunny days and stable and dry weather. Many people had fine experiences far beyond the mountain cottage, by the sea, and in forests and fields. White rhymes on the tree and marked the course against the bursting autumn colors, giving off experiences when reaching a mountain top or choosing a lighter route in a large-scale nature. But as the autumn passed over in winter, these experiences came into the shadow because the beautiful weather brought with it even greater disadvantages. There was a constant more negative focus on the lack of flooding in the water reservoir, and the lack of snow and frost reinforced the negative effect of a lack of rainfall. In the winter of 2002–03, Norway was vulnerable to precipitation failures, especially combined with severe cold over a long period of time. The power market had a very short time to adapt to the challenges posed by the failure of energy supply from hydroelectric power generation. In shoals, there was a great deal of uncertainty about whether there would be enough water in the warehouse, so that enough electricity could be delivered until spring 2003. The market reacted, and the power prices went up. Unacceptably high electricity prices led to large, misplaced and acute payment problems for some individual subscribers and groups of subscribers without a fixed price agreement. It therefore had to be put into action immediately as parts of the public service appliance were not offered. The high electricity prices had many negative effects directly and indirectly on private electricity customers, the business community and the public. In the winter of 2002–03, security of supply for electricity was not good enough, and so we have today to address the security of supply notification. For the Government, there is a target that there is enough electricity in the market at acceptable prices, and the majority in the Committee agree that Norway must have the aim of being at least self-sufficient in power in a normal year. Based on the detailed review of the power situation in 2002–2003 that emerges from the message, the Government has, among other things, put forward a series of measures designed in ten main points to help achieve these objectives. I am pleased that the Labour Party has seen the importance of implementing these measures, which will provide the basis for environmentally sound efforts to make the power supply more robust and deliver power at acceptable prices. In the ten-point list of actions, it includes: set up to strengthen efforts for environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and to increase environmentally sound energy production. In addition, consumers' rights are strengthened, including: through new forms of contract. During the processing of the message, we in the committee have been given full information on the power-intensive industry’s challenges and needs. long-term contracts at competitive prices. In Norway, this industry has a high environmental profile and represents some 22,000 valuable jobs. For employment, economic, technical and environmental reasons, it is therefore important that this industry not be moved out of the country. Today, parts of the power-intensive industry have agreements with Statkraft on the supply of power under so-called ‘authority-determined’ conditions. The EEA State aid rules apply to these types of agreements, and it is therefore not relevant to enter into new ‘authority-determined’ agreements when those contracts expire. The power-intensive industry must itself conclude contracts for the purchase of power in the market. In this situation, it is likely important that industry and the state have close contact and turn all the stones to find good solutions. The government party is in the majority who asks the Government to take the initiative to find out if it is possible to get a new generation of power contracts for power-intensive industry within the EEA legislation. Today, we are laying the basis for increasing security of supply for electricity, and through constructive cooperation on the environment, we will be better equipped to meet new challenges that may arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e617	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e620	Last year's power crisis hit many, and as often as it was, it was they with the worst advice that got it the hardest. Many were unable to pay the high electricity bills or were put and frozen in fear of getting a high bill. Just use power, said the Government and the Christian People's Party parliamentary leader. You can go to the social office with the bills. But what did they get in response there? Well, sell your car first! Reference to the Social Agency as the Government’s response to the individual’s meeting with the current crisis was met with headshaking from many, including the following: from municipalities and social services. I could imagine asking if the representative Lioness agrees with his parliamentary leader that social offices should be the only solution for individuals even in the next power crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e627	As I mentioned in my post, the public service equipment was not offered to take on the big challenges that came from the tough power prices. I think it's important to focus on what actually happened, what one came up with of measures, and about which there was a broad deal, also here in the Stortinget. First, a $2,500 in support through the bus fee. Support was also provided for heat pump, pellet stove and power management systems. Furthermore, many municipalities made excellent efforts and made an effort to help those who needed it the most. I am overconfident that there are many today who have subsequently been informed of the measures that have been implemented. But it is not possible to cover the fact that the service equipment was not well enough to meet that kind of challenge. The comments from parliamentary leaders are on their own, just as safe as they are on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e637	In 2001, the Christian People's Party agreed with the Swedish Government that the fall-back institute should co-exist with the state ownership of State power. But with the State Council of the Christian People's Party Steensnæs at the head, the Christian People's Party is now going to the fall-back institute. The fact that the government colleague Gabrielsen is dwindling on State power is not as surprising. But I have to say that it surprises me that the government is not dealing with previous decisions on big business. It surprises me that the Christian People's Party is not able to see the connection between these matters, both the privatisation of State power and the removal of the concession rules for relatively large power expansions, when it comes to investments in the hundreds of millions. Investments in the hundreds of millions class are not investments that ordinary farmers usually go into alone. In the privatisation of Statkraft, the path to Small Power lies open, and it is uncertain what will happen next. Will the Christian People's Party review this matter and hopefully come to a better and more sensible conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e642	It is a little special that the representative Vaggen Malvik several times claims that we are now dealing with a case of relapse. It will come into its own in connection with Ot.prp. No 54, to the extent that we're going to take that. What has been positive, right back to 2001, is that both the Socialist Left Party and the other parties, etc. The working party, for environmentally friendly measures, as part of the treatment of the climate communication, said that micro, mini and small power plants should be very central to producing environmentally sound power generation. Therefore, it is a derailment when one in this case brings up a case of relapse. The fact that we're going to get a faster procedure to be able to implement micro, mini and small power plants, I thought I was positive, I thought SV wouldn't turn it to anything negative right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e649	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e652	In Norway, as we know, we can enjoy large amounts of hydropower. We've also done that to those degrees, so unfortunately we've taken too light on energy policy challenges. We've made ourselves dependent on electricity, also on heating. In the autumn of 2002, there was an unpleasant demonstration of how vulnerable we are, by the scarcity of electricity combined with low availability of alternative energy. There was a breach in the responsible authorities. But it may unfortunately look as if the horror went quickly over. Older people in my districts are still talking about the drought in 1947. It sat in for a long time. However, in the autumn of 2002, which caused the imbalance in the energy market, it seems almost forgotten already, i.e. We've got this big message as a kind of memory book. In daily speech it is called the dry-year report. The notification contains several good proposals to improve security of supply, but it contains very few obligations. I had hoped that it would finally help to increase the production of bioenergy. There has, however, been a dramatic upturn in refurbishment, but for modern use of bioenergy, little has happened. We are far behind the other Nordic countries. We're still going to do that. This is a result of the fact that Norwegian framework conditions are much worse than in the Nordic countries. There's little help in speaking of waterborne heat based on bioenergy as long as it doesn't pay to produce it. Increased fuel oil consumption pays off, but it will worsen CO2 emissions, and the dependence on electricity is the main reason why we have become so vulnerable to low rainfall. Today it's dividing between 5 and 8 cents per cent. kWh between the price that producers of the waterborne heat are able to pay for bioenergy and that supplier must have in order to act economically. Then everyone understands that it does not help with good wishes. The centre batch wants the waterborne bioenergy-based heat to be included in a green certification market. It is the instrument that can provide profitability and a substantial increase in bioenergy production. But the government will unfortunately not bring heat. It is manufactured as difficult to obtain a certificate market for heat production. It's complicated and expensive, claims it. In such an important energy policy issue, resources must at least be put in place to try to achieve it. The second excuse is that many countries only have electricity, and it doesn't sound very good either, because other countries have almost opposite challenges than us. They have a low share of electricity. If the Government gives up the idea of a green heat delivery certificate before a test has been carried out, it will have to act directly on the State budget. It does not now coincide with the government's proposal to allow small-scale production to benefit from the agricultural deduction. No, we have to bet like they are. in Finland, where there are grants for the preservation of energy works and for the provision of tiled products. The grant schemes are at a level that would close the gap of 5 to 8 ør per. kWh. We should have had that here, too. In the production of bioenergy, we get jobs in the inland on the purchase, and we need that. Bioenergy is CO2 neutral, so I want to remind you of the clear assumption of the majority of committees in the use of natural gas: ‘... increase in CO2 emissions in one area must be matched by reductions in other areas either in Norway, through the purchase of emission allowances, emission credits in developing countries or joint implementation of climate action in other countries.’; Well and well, but the Center Party believes that it is also important to invest funds on bioenergy without any CO2 disadvantages. Finally, some words about the disposal of the reservoirs. Together with SV, the Center Party believes that it must be wise to housekeepers with magazine reserves in a less short-term way than we have seen in recent years. This I have made myself a spokesman for in several contexts and sometimes become a bit of a fussy argument. Not all magazines are suitable, it's said. That is true, but the multi-yearly magazines should be disposed of more carefully. It could increase the flood hazard, is another argument. That may be right, but if there are five or ten meters missing in Møsvatn that it is full when the meltdown on Hardangervidda is over, it is not so careful. Then there is probably someone who is tempted to repeat that today's energy law was promoted by the Eivind Reiten Center Party. I'll get them in advance and say that Eivind Reiten works very well, and that the Energy Act also does, sail if it has any weaknesses after all these years, especially in scarcity situations. Social responsibility for industry actors needs to be clarified, and we need better arrangements for security of supply. I just want to say that the centre party is in favour of proposal No. 13 from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e681	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e684	The centre party has long traditions in Norwegian policy to conserve and exploit our natural resources. Heavy examples in this way are fish, agriculture and hydropower. Here the Center Party has used a lot of political energy to foreshadow the view that these are our resources and something we're going to manage for the benefit of the nation. The Central Party has had a clear policy. When it comes to exploiting our new resource, the gas, the Senter Party does not have the same clear attitude. Here, the center part is strangely passive. Enger himself says that perhaps too little attention has been paid to the challenges of energy policy. Doesn't Enger think it's a paradox when the Center Party is against an active gas power policy in Norway, while you're for the import of electricity that's mostly based on gas we've exported, on coal power or nuclear power? Can Enger further clarify why the Centre Party is so passive in the management of Norwegian natural gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e693	The center party is accused here of being a little passive. I don't think we are, but the impact can be said of something else for the time being. The centre party is, as Hansen quite rightly said, very concerned about taking care of Norwegian resources. We are also concerned about using the gas for domestic use, but – and this is no news – we are concerned that, to the extent that gas power plants are to be built, it should be with CO2 management. We haven't gotten that far yet. Otherwise we are to use gas in the industry, for example. in Grenland, which we followed a lot up. Otherwise, we are very concerned about mini- and micro-power plants. In addition, we have bioenergy that has used far too little resources up to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e707	As the representative is involved, SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have a number of joint proposals. Now I understood it so that Inger S. Enger and the Zenterpartie also join the SV's proposal on the support scheme, and that is positive. From the outset we agree on bioenergy, water-borne heat, green certificates, multi-year magazine – a number of things like the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party are some of them, and that's good. In 1991, the Central Party held the Council of State for Energy Policy. He went to the top to deregulate the power market and has now created the basis for what we see today, that people should take the time to sit and surf the web to find cheap power suppliers, and that a time is dominated by unstable prices. It's at a level that's totally unacceptable. SV also has a proposal that the Center Party does not support, that one should have a broad review of the energy laws that the Center Party was behind in its time, to find out if it is possible to regulate something and get a little bit more controlled prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e714	As I said in my post, I believe that the Reiten works well in its field. That we did not go into SV's proposal to look at the Energy Act has nothing to do with it. Promises should be looked at when there have been some years. 15 years have passed, from 1990 to today, and it is quite reasonable that there are some points in the Energy Act that we should look at. The central party chose to join the Labour Party and the Progress Party in a proposal to look at the law. The SV proposal is very detailed, and when you are so detailed, a quick one can forget some points. That's why we thought it was better to take a look and go with the others. Now I also got the pleasure of hearing earlier today that this will also be done by SV, when they realize that their own proposal is being voted down. That's why we get a happy majority to look at disclosure obligations and security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e721	I just want to follow up on the last question that Inger Enger answered, so far in a good way. The Energy Act has largely been blamed in the wake of the situation we had last winter. My claim will be in line with what Inger Enger also said, namely that the Energy Act has essentially actually worked well in relation to the intentions that we expected it to fill. It has also worked relatively well in relation to price mechanisms, which shows that prices have been on average lower throughout the 1990s than before the deregulation. Nevertheless, we draw the same conclusion. Inger Enger sees the need for a thorough review of the Energy Act, that there may be a need to look at certain areas of a law that she believes actually works well. My challenge will then be: What areas of the Energy Act does she see the need to review? Which areas does she actually think have worked well, as the Energy Act is per. Today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e729	The background that we did not want to go into the SV's proposal was just that we would not be too detailed, and I can't be now either. In the hurry, it can be quick to forget something. But this with security of supply becomes the main part of such an answer. It seems – for the time being at least – that SV and the Centre Party are not supported by the multi-annual magazines. There are reasons for this in the settings, but I don't think they hold, so I still think we should get to this – not for all magazines, but for the big ones. The black ice was mentioned here, that was a good example. We could also use Statkraft magazines, they're the state that owns, and we can put special restrictions on them. In addition, one could ensure that the tax system was set up in such a way that it was profitable to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e736	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e739	Globally, the world faces three major environmental challenges that need to be addressed, understood and resolved: climate, pollutants and biodiversity. Of the three major environmental challenges, there is no doubt that there are greenhouse gases that are the most difficult for Norway, because it is so much related to our wealth development based on the extraction and combustion of oil and gas. Climate issues are energy policy. Norway is a major energy nation, and has a special responsibility to make fossil energy cleaner, to promote renewable energy and to find solutions that make energy use more efficient. It is easy to frame everything left does not want. We want to put an end to the large hydroelectric constructions, and to protect the Weftna and Bjerkreim watercourse. Coal or gas power stations shall not be built that emit greenhouse gases in Norway. We're not going to use any more energy than is necessary. But it's not like the Left says no to all new electricity because it's "fun" to say no. We say no because we have solutions that are much better! We know that electricity can be released by starting to use unused heat for heating, and using electricity for that which requires electricity, such as lights and computers. The left has said that before, but repeats it: it is not good environmental policy to use something as high as electric energy to warm up houses, when there are so many simple and good alternatives. Increased use of alternative renewable energy sources will, in addition to improving the environment, help increase security of supply. It is not recommended to add all eggs to a folder. The left is focused on facilitating the increased use of bioenergy. In the context of the following three measures, the electricity price should be a few cents higher than today, it must be provided for a large-scale expansion of water-borne heat, and there should be a high CO2 tax on oil and gas for all. With a high energy price, alternative energy technologies will become a growth industry. Energy savings will be much more profitable and contribute to energy saving. The left will also work to improve today's power system, to maximise the use of today's hydroelectric power plant. It's energy form, not energy itself, that determines how much environmental damage energy use causes. The use and development of renewable resources must be more important than the depletion of oil and gas resources if we are to meet our climate commitments. The left will raise the vision of a hydrogen society. Hydrogen is an efficient energy bearer that allows us to get more energy out of today's energy resources, we can increase flexibility and thus the stability of energy supply. Norway is a great energy nation. Left will use this position to make Norway the exporter of hydrogen into the world market. We have the raw materials, in the form of huge amounts of fossil gas, we have the technology for pollution-free gas power plants, we have solid experience in our industrial and research environment, and we have an environmentally conscious population. Norway has the potential to become an environmental policy priority country that is advancing a sustainable development internationally. The hydrogen can be produced from renewable energy, but if Norway is to become a leading hydrogen producer now, it should be based on fossil gas without CO2 emissions. The left is, therefore, very pleased that the Government is increasing the level of CO2-free gas power plants in the revised national budget. Gas messages are on the stairs. Left is clear: Increases in domestic use of gas must not result in higher national emissions, but replace other fossil energy carriers. Finally, I would like to make it clear that there is no need to delete either a highly impuritying gas power plant or several large hydroelectric power plants. By expanding a heating market in Norway, more than enough electricity will be released to meet increased consumption. So finally, the government's ten-point list in the Storing Message also shows that the Left gets an impact on its priorities. We are very pleased with the big message that is leading, and we are very pleased with the increased investment in technology development and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e785	It has been established that Norway is a wealth nation rich in energy resources. We must therefore have a bright future. This big message has come up with a basis in the situation we had last winter. The reasons why we got a serious situation are thoroughly discussed by others here today. I should therefore not go into them. My concern is what I began to say: Norway is a country rich in energy resources, and we have a bright future. But that means that we're able to use these resources. In some major cases, the Stortinget is committed to bringing together a broadest possible majority of the conclusions in order to achieve stability through it and avoid constant rematches. I think that is a good attitude – very good! For me, a matter of security of supply and, directly/indirectly, how to exploit and manage Norway's energy resources, is such a big issue, which should bring together the Biggest around the key and crucial conclusions. We have got a long and comprehensive setting, with very good content. But then it was by gathering in a majority – and majority for the big lines. In some areas, we have done it, while in others, I believe that Stortinget does not do its job. Instead of taking responsibility by gathering around a broad energy policy settlement, some of the parties choose to rid their political minds. I am very sorry about that. I think it's a problem that you can't get together on consensus about what the problem is. Future assessments of the need for force are also an example. Keyword further may disagree on, for example: gas and gas power plants. In a comment, the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party say: ‘The majority indicate that Norway has significant energy resources. Norway accounts for almost 1/3 of western Europe's hydropower production, half of its gas reserves, and 3/4 of its oil reserves. At the same time, only 1 pst lives. by the population of Western Europe in Norway. We've been exploiting energy resources for over a hundred years, and we've been building world-class expertise and technology. The development of gas power plants and the development of environmentally friendly technologies for the use of natural gas will be a continuation of this tradition.» There was a majority for this, but far from unanimity. The last sentence of this note gives views for the future, but what happened in the committee and with the setting? After this, there is too much disagreement – although there is a majority for something. Over nearly nine A4 pages, different scenarios are described and different conclusions are drawn about our gas. The right and Christian People's Party quickly jumped out of the views described in the last sentence of the quote above, and returns to the fold that does not make sense as to how the views are to be fulfilled. Especially for the Right, this must have been a bit of a bottling exercise. We know that the main reason Norway has become a prosperity nation is that we have energy resources and that we have had the ability to exploit them. A number of major industrial sites are built around our energy supply. Now we have a new resource that will follow us into the future – whether we want it or not. For various reasons, the majority of the Committee has chosen to close its eyes and ears. You two your hands and leave 99 pst. Of our gas go out of the country unaltered. Instead of exploiting this ourselves, which must be a comparative advantage, we sell our comparative advantage to other nations, so that we have to import gas processed into electricity, we import heavily contaminated coal power and/or nuclear power. We will also have the export of our comparative advantage in the middle of the flint in other areas of international competition. It's a vision of the future! Through the treatment of the so-called Worm Lange case earlier this winter, Stortinget and, hopefully, the rest of the nation got a little insight into what fairytale resources lie there and what opportunities Norway has for exploiting them. There are great opportunities here for the whole nation. I also think that there is a point that North Norway has a genuine opportunity – if the country part is given an opportunity. These challenges are the task of the Biggest to take care of and take care of. I assume that we will have a proper debate on how to use Norwegian gas in Norway, and that there will have to be a switch to gas power stations quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e816	Security of energy supply is one of the pillars of an industrialised prosperity society such as the Norwegian, whether it concerns businesses or private households. That is why it is an important issue of society that is being debated today. St.meld. No 18, on security of supply for electricity, etc., provides good information on the background to the price crisis we experienced in the winter 2002–2003, and the challenges we face in the future. The Government’s overall objective is that there should be sufficient electricity in the market at acceptable prices. This is supported by the right, and also by the fact that an energy storm power such as Norway should be at least self-sufficient in a normal year. In today's energy system, with high dependence on hydropower, we are vulnerable to years of low rainfall, and the measures outlined by the Government in its ten-point list aim to reduce this vulnerability: on the one hand, by increasing production from different energy sources and, on the other hand, by a strengthened transmission system from abroad and, on the other, by energy conversion, by strengthening the position of the consumer in the power market; It is, of course, negative that companies had some negative experience with price developments in the power market a year and a half ago. Furthermore, it is also negative to receive signals that some enterprises are actually in the think-tank as to whether they will continue to invest in Norway, because of uncertainty about future energy supplies and the price to be charged. However, many companies, especially those with high energy consumption, have some form of fixed-price contracts or their own agreements that ensure their stability in terms of price. This possibility was relatively few consumers or households who had, precisely because we are used to price developments in electricity that have not essentially varied significantly. I will therefore continue to focus on the position of consumers. The price evolution of electricity in winter 2002–2003 caused problems for some people and, unfortunately, those with the lowest income have the least opportunity to adapt to increased power prices when switching to other energy carriers. Fortunately, however, measures have been taken to mitigate this unfortunate development, including: through increased support under the housing aid scheme. At the right, the Government's objective is to strengthen the position of consumers in the power market and the measures proposed here, inter alia. focusing on developing new types of contracts as an alternative to current contracts. The new contracts will be favourable both in terms of maintaining the flexibility of consumption and in motivating the savings of the individual. At the same time, they will allow consumers to secure themselves at high prices. More frequent meter reading and billing in stressed power situations could also help improve the position of consumers. The same applies to a reduced period of two weeks in the event of a power shift. This results, for example, in: a real possibility to change the power supply before a price increase enters into force. Furthermore, I would like to mention new rules on the price of universal power supplies, the so-called waiting tariff. This measure is taken in order to avoid the risk of paying a particularly high waiting tariff until the consumer regains power from an ordinary power supplier, for consumers who are unsolicited to the universal service obligation of the network company. And last, but not least, I will mention what the NVE is doing in establishing a look-up on consumer rights. This will make it easier for consumers to inform themselves in the power market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e855	As has already been said several times: the electricity supply security notification is about the Government’s strategy to ensure that there is enough energy at acceptable prices in the market. This means that there will be enough energy both for business, for management and for private households. In order to achieve this, greater emphasis needs to be placed on security of supply considerations than in the past. The Communication provides a broad review of the experience gained in the autumn and winter 2002–03. The review shows that electricity prices were abnormally high and that the price increase increased the cost of Norwegian business and Norwegian households. These experiences lead to two clear conclusions: we need to strengthen energy supply, and we need to become less dependent on hydropower. In addition, the position of consumers needs to be improved. The Government presented a number of measures across a broad field to ensure a more robust energy supply. I am therefore pleased that the Government has received broad support for the measures taken in the communication. The government continues its efforts towards an environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and production. The Communication launches, inter alia: a new aid scheme to stimulate the development of district heating infrastructure. This strengthens environmentally friendly energy production with significant potential. We also aim to ensure that improved regulation and planned measures in energy conversion will contribute to more flexible heating solutions. The Government also wants to facilitate increased renewable energy production by strengthening the basis for environmentally sound hydropower generation. In addition, a single Norwegian-Swedish market for compulsory electricity certificates is still under way. It is important that this work continues in a targeted and appropriate way. I have noticed that Storting's clear desire to get this in place as soon as possible, and I can assure you that I am doing everything I can to establish such a market. We fully agree with the Government that this is an important measure, and I will address this in a separate communication to the Stortinget in June. The government believes that increasing the environmentally friendly use of natural gas will help to strengthen energy supply in a way that will also enable us to achieve our climate objectives. We have therefore given high priority to the development of gas power plants with CO2 management. The revised national budget further strengthens the effort through the proposal to set up a fund of DKK 2 billion and an innovation activity in Grenland. The Fund's return shall include, inter alia: finance the testing of new technologies at the pilot and demonstration plants for environmentally friendly gas power plants. Furthermore, the government is committed to ensuring continued effective competition in the power market, strengthening Nordic electricity cooperation and giving consumers better rights in the power market. Consumers should, inter alia: have more and better opportunities to insure against rapid price changes, and it must be even easier to change the supplier. Anyone who wishes to do so shall be able to insure against unexpected price jumps through reasonable agreements with electricity suppliers, while at the same time being flexible and stimulating the market for saving and efficient use of energy. I noticed that the representative, Øyvind Vaksdal, asked the Council of State to confirm that the Government does not base the security of supply on the fact that the industry will stop its own production in order to deliver to the network. I can confirm that no, it's not part of our strategy. But the reason the industry has to deliver to the network in special cases, as determined by the Storting on the proposal of a workers' party government, is a sensible scheme. The same applies also to the impact agreements concluded with the industry. These are flexible and useful schemes, but of course they cannot be included as a contribution to the general electricity supply. The Government emphasises that State networks as a system operator are to be responsible for the ongoing investigation and development of instruments to ensure a balance between production and consumption in very demanding power situations. The NVE is responsible for approving the instruments and providing criteria for their use. This shall complement the market with additional certainty in very difficult situations. I am very pleased that a broad majority supports the Government's ten-point list for a more robust energy supply. I see that different minorities come up with additional suggestions. I notice this. However, it is important that there is a clear political will behind the majority measures that are now to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e878	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e881	Although it is quite obvious that we need to build gas power plants to get prices down, as the council says he wants, it is not particularly affected, to say the least, in the message Government has presented to Stortinget. It is now the case that concession holders have to make a decision within a very short period of time as to whether to use it to start a gas power plant or one. I still hope that some of them will say yes, so that we get started. But if they were to conclude that they will not now build gas power plants, will the Council of State ensure that these concessions are not extended? We can't have a situation in which companies sit and incubate concessions year after year without it being built. Can the Council of State also answer whether, if others are applying for a concession, as someone has already notified, he would be in favour of such concession applications?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e888	I would first like to make it clear that it has not been relevant for the Government to withdraw the concessions given, in terms of the construction of gas power plants, whether Kårstø, Kolsnes or Skogn. The companies behind the concessions have in turn asked for their extension. I guess that's because the companies seriously want to consider building these gas power plants. The government is fully loyal to the decisions taken by the big business at these points and has also made it clear to the companies. But there is a lack of profitability that has made this uncertain. These concessions have been extended – according to my memory to 2007 and 2009 respectively. I will check those years so that there is no uncertainty about this. The last concession, to Forest, has just been renewed and extended at the request of Industrial Force. In the case of new concessions, I refer to what is stated in the Sem Declaration, and what is the Government's policy, where, in addition to the three concessions, it wants to bet on gas power plants with CO2 management.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e893	First of all, I would like to say that it is interesting to hear that the representative Brustad and the Workers' Party feel committed to the Sem-Declaration and will only distribute three concessions for gas power plants. That's new. The Council of State claimed that today’s concession operators do not find it profitable to expand, and that this is due to a price-to-gas ratio. I have heard this several times from the Council of State. In his view, none of this is due to any framework conditions, uncertainty about future emission requirements or political signals. In Technical Weekend No. 12 for 2004 says Hydro's Director-General, Eivind Reiten: ‘The uncertainty associated with the CO2 issue is too great for some to bet on the use of gas in Norway.’ And he goes on to say, ‘Norway has rotted into a CO2 psychosis.’ Similar signals also came from Elkem Director Svein Sundsbø at the NHO Energy Conference just before Easter, where both the Council of State and I were present. Is the Council of State totally immune to such signals, or will he finally listen to the companies and clear the way of the political and economic uncertainty he and the Government have created?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e912	The concession terms under which the three concessions are granted are determined, inter alia: by the Party of Advancement together with the Party of Workers and the Right. Those concession terms have not changed this government by a comma. In other words, it is predictable, clear conditions attached to them. No one can doubt what are the terms of the concessions. Should one be in doubt, it's just reading in the big documents, because that's where they stand. This is the decision of the Stortingen industry to deal with. To the extent that «psychosis» has been created on both gas power plants and on CO2 management, it must relate to uncertainty as to what the Storting has actually adopted. I am not in doubt as to what it decided, and I am clearly in a factual position about this. Nor do I have the impression that the industry, with which we have repeated meetings about this, feels in some way that this has been unclear about the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e920	I think maybe the council has a suspicion of what I'm going to ask him. Although he has disappointed me, I will meet the expectations. Why has the government at this point decided to deal with the fall-back institute, the possibility we have of political governance with eternal Norwegian natural resources? I assume that the Council of State can confirm that the expansion of new hydropower will come from small power plants, and that he agrees that the time for the large hydropower expansions is over. Something else had been alarming. I want to repeat that SV is initially not negative to small scale hydropower if they can be expanded in an environmentally sound way. It also showed SV through the gas deal with the government parties, which was given priority in the work on green certificates. But why is it necessary to exempt this new great expansion wave? Small power, owned by Statkraft, has the goal of expanding 2.5 TWh in ten years. Why is it necessary to remove the concession obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e929	This is a matter for Stortinget to come back to when Ot.prp. No 54 for 2003-2004 to be discussed. But to say it very briefly: there is reason to respond to the rhetoric that SV has used in this matter. If Ingvild Vaggen Malvik is correctly quoted, she has said: ‘With a pen stroke and in an urgent effort, the government will amend the law protecting Norwegian Falls against privatisation. Thus, the government privatises the property and natural resources of the Norwegian people in such a way that they disappear for good’. This is a completely incorrect presentation, with a word usage that there is every reason to respond to. This does not apply to any of the existing hydroelectric power plants, which are small and partly medium-sized hydroelectric power plants owned by farmers and Norwegian companies. Nor is it right to present this as an investment in the hundreds of millions class – probably up to 25 GWh, and with 2 kronor investment per. kWh, we're talking about a maximum of 50 million. kr, most of them under this. Both the level of investment and the presentation are therefore erroneous. I hope that we can have a better dialogue on this important issue than the one that has now been through the press.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e939	I'll talk about green certificates. In the domestic gas use message, the Government has stressed that: ‘A system of certificates covering heat will not be compatible with a future international renewable electricity certificate market in Europe’, which also underlines the Government in St.meld. No 18th@item: The centre batch wishes, as you know, to include waterborne bioenergy heat in the green certification market. It is the instrument that can provide profitability and a substantial increase in bioenergy production. But the government doesn't want to. It is manufactured as if it is difficult to obtain a certificate market for heat production. If the Government gives up the idea of green certificates for the supply of heat before a test has been carried out, then other instruments must be directly above the State budget. The state is willing to spend a lot of money on other forms of energy, and that's fine. But how does the Council of States think about bioenergy? To put it straight, how are you going to get a turn on the bioenergy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e955	I have previously praised the representative Inger S. Enger, the representative Sylvia Brustad and others for their commitment to bioenergy. I'm completely in line with that. So I want to say, this has been decided by the Storting. There was a question in Stortinget whether we should have a green certificate market just for electricity, or should we also include heat? It has been decided by the Storting, and on that basis the Government has gone further and developed this, which is only about electricity. The representative, Enger, correctly refers to what we have written about how this will harmonize with a Swedish-Norwegian certification market, where heat is not included, and with a European electricity market, where heat is not included. In fact, the government has done a lot in terms of producing waterborne heat – district heating – by now we have started a program that increases the capacity of district heating by 200 pst., from 2 TWh, which we have today, to 6 TWh, which we hope we have within five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e964	This is and will be a difficult matter for the Christian People's Party. The Council of State sees the need for new production capacity, and he says we need to become less dependent on hydropower. In other words, he admits the need to use gas for electricity production in Norway. But the Christian People's Party has a history in this matter, and thus the party must insist that gas power is an abomination. I feel that here the Council of State and the Christian People's Party send very different, almost schizophrenic signals, a saying that we need power, but no new applications will be dealt with. I myself have been presented for many exciting projects that have better energy use and better economy than the projects that have been granted permission. This is not how the Government will treat it. In other words, they should not get their projects evaluated. In the meantime, we import and make us increasingly dependent on coal power. Can this be a good policy for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e969	This is a good policy for Norway not only today; it is also a sustainable, good policy for generations to come. The government places an immeasurable emphasis on that. Not only do we need to solve an important energy issue today, but we also need to find solutions that will enable future generations to live well and that are in line with important international commitments. So the representative Aksensen says that the Council of State must admit that gas power is needed to secure the energy supply. Yeah, not only do I admit it, I also think it's very important that we get this going. In the longer term, the gas power has to be there as a supplement, both because it provides a premium alongside the hydropower that is important, and because it produces in a quantity that we need in the future. I am not schizophrenic, the party is not schizophrenic, in relation to this – we see the context here and are consistent because we want to bet on gas power plants with CO2 management. I have explained some of the tools we are going to use in this context. Then I just have to add: All applications sent to the Government will of course be processed and investigated. It is a duty of course for any government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e978	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e981	St.meld. No 18 on the security of power supply came about with a background in the unusual winter we experienced last year, when the electricity prices jumped in the weather. It was cold, and there were many people here in the country who feared that they would not cope with the financial burden it was with a high electricity price. No danger, it was claimed by the government team – if you can't handle the bill, you can go to the social office in the municipality where you live, to get help. There is reason to ask whether the municipalities were prepared to take this extra work, and there is reason to ask whether it has been done enough for the municipalities in retrospect to follow up the power crisis we all experienced. Today, when we deal with a message that will try to curb this reoccurrence, it should also contain something about what the public partners of government and government, in this case the municipalities, get back in a prevention package, as this can also be seen. Are the municipalities now able to deal with a similar situation? Has it been done enough to compensate the additional costs of the municipalities in connection with the current crisis we are talking about today? A quick phone round to the municipalities shows that the compensation they received was not entirely in line with the expectations they had. The worst thing that politicians can do is to create great expectations that we can't live up to. In this case, the economically weak people who sat at home and heard representatives from the government parties say on TV that the social office could help with the large electricity bill they were waiting for. What was not mentioned was that there are clear criteria that need to be met before a person receives financial support, so the answers many received when they addressed the social office were that they were not eligible for support because they owned things of value that could be traded, for example. A car. Students experienced the same thing — minimum pensioners too, to mention someone. The Workers' Party proposed to provide additional support of NOK 2500 to those who normally receive housing support, as compensation for what they had been through financially. Luckily, this majority got here in the hall, but it's a cross of thought that the initiative comes from the Storting and not from the Government, when the promises have been made from this team. And also with this one-time arrangement, there were several people who fell outside. In addition to what the Government is proposing to ensure that we have enough power in this country, the Workers' Party will again take further action. For individual individuals, for industry, for municipalities and for institutions predictability – predictability of power availability, predictability of price is required. As I see it, the question now is whether everyone feels secure that they have access – and enough money – to electricity for their daily consumption, because that must be what should be the purpose of this message. On the other hand, whether there will be security from now on will remain to be seen. Whether the municipalities will be the service bodies they should be in the next crisis remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1004	We can say that the power consumption in this country is increasing. The Government Communication points out that consumption has increased by an average of 1,2 pst over the last 10 years. per 1 % years. This means that our vulnerability to dry years is increasing, unless we have the power to reintroduce the power market as monks. Norway and Sweden are, as you know, highly dependent on hydropower, and it is therefore desirable to improve security of supply by focusing more on alternative energy sources. Several have been included in the 10-point list presented by the Government to reduce vulnerability to precipitation failures and to strengthen consumer position. And it is gratifying that the government parties in this matter are supported by the majority. Small-scale power plants, mini- and micro-power plants, can be an important addition. It is therefore gratifying that the Government provides for a simpler application and concession treatment cycle for power plants up to 5 MW of power. In the past, following an evaluation of the current scheme, the Government has asked it to consider raising this limit to 10 MW in order to harmonise this with the green certificate market and related legislation, which is under development in EU countries. For my own part, I have to add that I think it is reasonable that the pioneers in this industry, those who have gone ahead and taken risks and who in the future have to compete in the same market as the small-scale producers that started after 1 January this year, should have the same competitive conditions in the green certificate market. In a broader time perspective, I think something else would be unreasonable and unnecessarily difficult to deal with. The government has renewed the gas power plant concessions on Forest, Kollsnes and Kårstø respectively with a total of 12 TWh produced annually. However, gas prices and electricity prices have shown that these are currently marginal investments, with the required return on investments. It is a pity, for this would make a valuable contribution to the power balance and reduce highly polluting emissions from old coal-fired power plants in pressed situations. Nor has the Progress Party come up with a solution to how we should do this in the debate here today. However, a number of new gas and energy projects have recently been presented with better overall profitability and improved energy use. Examples of this include: Statoil's plans for gas power plants at the Tent Goods and the energy plant at Mongstad. The energy plant at Mongstad, for example, will Relieves more polluting energy production in a magnitude corresponding to the power demand of a large Norwegian city, and in addition it will provide surplus power for the Trollfield installations, which in turn will provide a valuable complement to the Western region – a region in our country as paradoxical enough, as Norway’s remote energy producing part, has a power deficit in pressed situations. So here we have a win-win situation. Yeah, that's right, as the representative Brustad said. The Court’s national meeting decided to meet requests for the transfer of concessions in the case of commercial gas power plants within the framework given – of course within the applicable application, concession and emission rules. But first of all, there must be applications for this. These have not yet been seen, and I actually perceive the Council of State so that this is what he writes to the committee about in a letter dated 13 May – that is, a letter we have recently received, where he underlines this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1021	Last winter's power crisis is the story of an early crisis. Anyone who has followed in the development of the energy situation in Norway had to realize that sooner or later this would happen. In the spring of 1997, the government put Jagland down a selection to look at the energy balance by 2020. There, developments were described in a very professional way. Unfortunately, the first Bondevik government did not like the conclusions and recommendations of this selection. In the energy message provided by the government, one did not take the challenges seriously. In reality, increased imports are the most important measures. It was this that made a number on Stortinget go in to build gas power plants in Norway. One would avoid the situation we came in last winter. In retrospect, it must be possible to determine that you got all the arguments that were used at the time. It is only by using gas that we can solve the energy balance in the short term. If the planned works had been built, last winter's crisis would have been much less. Prices would have been much lower, and imports of highly impurising energy would have been much smaller. Of course, me and the others who were in the plural at the time believed that the applications for the construction of gas power stations were serious and that gas power stations would have been built if concession seekers had been given the same conditions as one in the rest of Europe. As long as the previous government put it, there was no sign that one would not use the concessions. Although a formal lack of economy gives rise to a lack of positive decisions, I feel pretty sure that political insecurity and reluctance from government is at least as decisive. I also feel overwhelmed that it would have been a positive investment decision if the previous government had been allowed to continue. I don't think it's strange that there are no new concession requests, all the time the government has said she won't treat them, or at least won't give a positive answer. Energy laws are now 14 years old, and we must be able to say that she has had many positive aspects. We have had a much more efficient operation, we have gained a better use of production capacity and a better line network, and we have received a professionalisation of these companies. Nevertheless, we must also be able to conclude that at one point the Energy Law has failed: it has not helped to achieve sufficient new generation capacity. One has failed to obtain the energy needed to balance. It's a paradox that the biggest ignition had the energy companies that year production was lowest. I have to say that it's true that I don't believe that companies alone can get the energy that we need. I am therefore a little disappointed and surprised that there has not been any greater willingness to go through the laws and look at what changes are needed to bring about new capacity. In my view, there are three ways out of the energy crisis that we've had. One is to increase production, the other is to increase imports, and the third is a strong reduction in power-intensive industry. Even if no one wants to say it straight out, unfortunately everything indicates that it's the last point that will become a reality. For we now have a development that, with the power prices we can now offer to power-intensive industries, makes it impossible to assert itself in international competition. Especially when this happens at the same time that the power contracts that are politically determined are phased out, the situation is actually going to be very serious over a period of less than a year. In Mo in Rana, a missing contract will be in April next year, and that's all reason to believe that prices will triple. When we know that they're balancing just today, it's very easy to see what kind of development this will lead to. It surprises me that someone cares so little about this from the government. But of course, I am very happy that there is a number that will now address the possibilities that exist within the EEA Agreement. Hopefully, one can find answers to the problems facing the power - intensive industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1041	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1045	Most of it has been said about security of supply, but one does not exclude that increased security of supply is also related to increased availability, more TWh – from different energy carriers. I think it really is alarming that the Government and the Advance Party cannot support the six proposals by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre on page 13 of the vote. There is a strange reluctance when the Government does not speed up the implementation of the EU directive which in Norway would lead to increased use of biofuels, which the EU has too far prepared. In addition to being a very good environmental measure, it could lead to the production of biofuels on a large scale here in the country and provide badly needed jobs, including: domestic, Uppland and Hedmark – the biofuel region of Norway today. I'm actually starting to wonder if there's anything about the oil lobbyists, that they have a greater impact in the department than those who strive to gain recognition of bioenergy as a way of life and as an important supplement – both as an energy bearer and as an environmental measure. It's worth noting, I think the government doesn't care about the interior, which has advantages in bioenergy, which has research environments, which have biofuel companies, which have the Energiegård, which have agriculture and which have the forest. The country lacks only some important instruments that would have made it possible to take some new steps in the field of bioenergy. The Storting could have given them today. As long as I don't know what is the real reason for the Government to hesitate, and as long as I haven't heard any other explanation as to why one hesitates to apply EU directives, rather than pushing this directive between different departments – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Industry and Trade – I don't think we can call it anything but emergency.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1056	In the case of EU directives on biofuels, we will come back to that. It's a complicated matter, but the government's attitude is positive. Now let me say that. I think the representative Brørby might be able to fine-tune his rhetoric a little more in relation to caring about the interior, as she believes the Government does not. So now the Minister of Agriculture has been able to see that there will be tax deductions on the production of biofuels, and I have just explained that the Government is investing in a five-year programme to increase the biofuel capacity of district heating plants by 200 pst. I think it offers potentials and opportunities for Inland Norway that the representative Brørby should notice. Then the representative, Olav Akselsen, comes up and says that there is enough political uncertainty that is why gas power plants are not being built. Yes, I wish I had such authority that if I said we should be more forward-looking on gas power with CO2 management, Industry-Norway would refrain from implementing its plans. I don't think I have such great power and influence over the industry. Unfortunately, what goes on the bottom line and on profitability is the leading thing. That then in rhetorical contexts trying to push other explanations in front of me is new to me. I would then challenge the industry – if one seriously believes that the government's signals are unclear – so that one provokes or provides the necessary assurances that all the collapse-determined conditions for building gas power plants are established. I see that here and now. Something has also been said about social measures. Now there's a constitutional responsibility under other state councils. There is a lot that could have been said and done differently in that debate. I fully agree with that. But let's not forget that the social offices did a great job. The size granted after 100 million. kr to municipalities – which received increased additional expenditure – to support electricity customers who had problems. Let's not forget that. Nor should we forget that the Council of State, the Minister of Social Affairs, corrected some misunderstandings when it came to the practice of legislation, so that unreasonable demands were waived. In the end, I just want to say a little bit about these power contracts, which there is a majority to investigate. I will of course look at this and follow up the decision of Storting. But I also want to say that entering into new government-determined power contracts, hardly is the way to go. The State aid rules of the EEA Agreement are so strict that what you can do in this area is limited. But the government wants to contribute to the transitions where necessary. I would also like to show that the power-intensive industry has a long service life, has a large volume of power, and can therefore take power out at a high voltage level, which provides lower prices in the market. But we're going to get back to this, and I'm going to report back to Stortinget already in the state budget for 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1069	I heard what the council said in the reply to the reply from me. I would like to point out that he did not answer the question I asked: why is such a change of concession laws necessary now, while the Home Affairs Committee is working? Would it not have been more sensible to allow the sample to assess the consequences of such a change of law before it is implemented, also because the consequences of the amendments to the Industrial Concession Act are not actually mentioned in the proposition submitted by the Government to the Stortinget? I think there is reason to ask if Stortinget has received the information necessary to reach a decision in this matter when we get to it. I also wonder if the reluctance is due to the history of the Home Affairs Committee. As I said in my post, it was a few years since the government last tried with a major change to the concession laws without it being properly investigated, and was then forced by Stortinget to put down the so-called Home Fall Committee, which was to make a closer investigation and assessment. I would also like to see this in the context of this urgency that the Business Committee has been given on the table in relation to the privatisation of State power – because it is the reasonable and natural mention of that matter, it is an opening for privatisation. State power owns small power. Small power is a very important player in the new large hydropower expansion wave that we see in Norway, i.e. smaller power plants. I think these two things need to be seen in context. That is one of the reasons why I believe that the Homefall Committee must look at both amendments to the concession law and not least the consequences of privatisation of State power. The conclusion is therefore that both of these cases should be postponed until the Home Affairs Committee has been given its opinion. I find it regrettable that the Government, in its eagerness to increase power generation and invest in new renewable energy in the form of smaller hydropower plants, is in the process of removing legislation that has been in force for these smaller power plants since 1917. I think it's regrettable, especially, as I said, in the light of the fact that it's not mentioned in the proposition what the consequences will be, so that you almost have to be an expert to discover the consequences. Finally, I would also like to comment on another matter. There is a broad consensus in this room that one should bet more on Statnett. But what does it help if Statnet doesn't have money? Then my question to the Council of State is: will the Government continue to take 90 pst. of the proceeds from Statnett? In view of the security of supply that has not been addressed in the notification, I think this is a very relevant question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1085	One must be able to see far beyond this debate that there is a majority of the ten measures taken by the Government, but that some parties, including the Workers' Party, believe that these measures are far from sufficient to deal with prices, either now or in the future. If it is that the government parties will - in addition to what the government has already done, for example. in the case of bioenergy, government parties are cordially welcome to vote for the proposals made by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's Party in the vote. This will result in one doing even more in bioenergy. And if the government actually means something about it in practice, and not just in party speeches, then it's full opening to show it tonight. In terms of gas power plants – and the conventional ones – it's interesting to hear that the council here says that that's what will be the main answer to closing the gap between what we use and what we produce, to get prices down. What of course then becomes very strange is the round here in terms of passivity or not passivity in relation to the concessions given. I think the representative Aksenssen is quite right in saying that when those who sit on concessions are going to assess this matter if they are going to build, or if they are not going to build, one will, among other things. Think through: is it that we have a government that stands behind us and will boast and encourage us if we build, or will we experience that we will get negative feedback because we have a government that has said that it would prefer only a gas power plant with CO2 management? In addition, one is likely to be able to experience demonstrations from those who do not want gas power plants at all, and thus there is an uncertainty in addition to just the profitability, which is the official argument. The thing is, per cent. Today, it is not technology that has come so far that we can build gas power plants with CO2 management on such a large scale that it really monks in relation to sealing the famous gap. Then the question is, what are we going to do while? This is when the Workers' Party believes that at least you have to take the grips you can take, to ensure that you put pressure on those who have the concession to build. And if you can't say, as the National Council has said, that then you won't get an extension of the concession – that's an opportunity that the Council of State has, if he wants to do it – then we can say that yes, we're open that others who will then seek can get a chance to do so, of course, treated in a proper and proper way. If one does not take more active action in this area, unfortunately, the conclusion is that most people and businesses in this country have to expect too little power, which will also mean higher electricity prices, even in the future, if the gods are not with us. And the weather gods are none of us who have any guarantee in relation to. As far as the powerful industry is concerned, what is now happening there, very serious, is that the contracts are running out. Let me just use one example: South Norway Aluminium will, when these contracts are phased out, be able to increase electricity costs per. 200 million years. kr. It's just one company and one example. Too many companies will mean the hook on the door. And it's completely incomprehensible to me that we also have such a lukewarm government in that area. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1101	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1104	I'm just going to make a little comment on what Steensnæs mentioned when it was about Brørby's posts. It went on with bioenergy. Stone sneezing was mentioned here, among others. that the Minister of Agriculture had now done a great deal to improve the conditions for bioenergy. And it might look like that, because there's tax deductions that need to be changed. But the actual appropriations for bioenergy are cut. It's important that we get here with all the sides of it. Those who have already filled in the tax credit get nothing. Those who only do forestry don't get anything. So we have a little bit of a small group left here, which might have enjoyed this. But it doesn't seem like we're really going to get anything that's driving us over bioenergy. Then there will have to be other instruments. I mentioned instead Finland, which has a different way of doing this. They provide subsidies for the exploitation and tiling of energy, so they provide up to 50, 60, in fact up to 70 pst. the real costs of making this market turn. We provide other teams here in Norway, and that's very good. But since everyone is talking about how great and how necessary it is to use bioenergy as a renewable resource, it is important that we also take this more seriously inwards. I was also told clearly that the government had said no to heat being included in green certificates, and then this page became even more important. So I can repeat the call mentioned earlier today, that there is full opportunity to support the Workers' Party, SV and the proposal of the Centre's decision in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1115	We are probably in the process of closing the debate, as it is called, and ending. In summary, after following the debate from my own place, I would like to say that this has been a rather traditional debate, as we know it from 1999 until now, when we are discussing energy policy. It is relatively little new in itself that has emerged, if I should not then specifically highlight that there are actually some offensive steps taken by the Government. Looking back to the early 1990s and until 2000, in my opinion, there has not been such a comprehensive energy policy approach as since the accession of the Co-operation Board. The large hydropower epoch is over in the case of expansion projects. We agree on that. That's a good observation. At the same time, there appears to be a consensus that there is still potential for hydropower, but then on a smaller scale and in a more environmentally sound manner. However, the same disagreement we have had since 1999, in terms of gas power, is also evident in the treatment of the security of supply notification. I think we have to bear in mind that that disagreement is there, and we may not have done as much with it with such a debate as this one. I stress that the conditions under which these three concessions are granted are established. So even though I see that there are people who feel the need to put the responsibility on the government for construction not taking place, it is exactly the same conditions as the majority of the population in 1999 – which is the same number of population as today – added to the companies, which also apply today. What distinguishes, however, I think, is the profile of the question of the use of gas in the relationship between individual parts of the Stortinget and the Government, namely the very strong focus of the current government on finding environmentally appropriate ways to handle the gas, both in power generation and in connection with industrial processes. There is a commitment that has never been made to such an extent, and I mention in particular the Innovation Company in Grenland. It was in the government's gas report that it was suggested that we should have this, and that it should be capitalised up. That's what the government is doing. The government follows this up very well, as I consider it. Then we agree quite a lot, namely the problem that we have an increasing consumption, and we have a lack of capacity to deliver electricity. That reality picture is important, but I would like us not only to focus one-sidedly on growth, but also actually on the fact that growth itself is a real problem. We have a problem with electricity consumption in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1132	I guess I have 1 minute. I'll just briefly comment on Ingvild Vaggen Malvik's posts. The government is in favour of a continuation of the fall-back institute, and we are very pleased with SV's support for it. It's a sample that works to see how this can be done. I would like to say that when this case of lifting the concession limit of the 4000 horsepowers is not included in the Home Affairs Committee's assessment, it is simply because the government does not see that this has any relevance. We don't see such small power plants calling on foreign investors, and if they do, it's such a small part of the total hydropower production that it's not comparable to the beautiful fox that Ingvild Vaggen Malvik was shown on the TV 2 news. I am disappointed that SV does not see that this is primarily good district policy, that it provides farmers and others who need additional incomes, stable secure incomes that ensure their settlement. As for the proceeds of Statnett, I understand what Vaggen Malvik is aiming for. So it's going to be the seventh and the last time the Big One decides. Statnet will not pay any dividends without Stortinget joining. In the case of Sylvia Brustad and gas power plants, let me just say: I have been confirmed that it was correct with 2007 and 2009. Once the companies have got that extension – I'm not saying it's time to take concessions from someone – I would also like to say that it's a little early right now to advance what's going to happen in 2007 and 2009. Then we have another big thing, and then they get to decide on it. I want to clarify one aspect of the power-intensive industry. The government is very concerned that the powerful industry can continue to be competitive and produce and secure jobs and employment. There are several instruments that can come in, but I have noticed that the framework for what I have been asked to investigate should be within the provisions of the EEA Agreement. In this regard, I would already like to inform you that there are clear limitations, to say it cautiously, to the imposition of regulatory conditions that are lower than the market. I want the Stortinget to know that already today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1145	The President will draw attention to the fact that both the rapporteur and the Council of State have the full opportunity to make further three-minute speeches, without there being any call. In the case of the other representatives, there is an opportunity to make a brief statement after having had two previous posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1150	I understand that the main task of the representative in Stortinget is to defend the government, but sometimes it might be a little too much of the good. That's how I think at least some of us representing other parties feel it. When the representative Rahm says that there is no other government that has had such a comprehensive energy policy as this government, it is at least permissible to believe that it does not all agree. We have supported all of the proposals that the Government has had on more expansion in order to gain more power. We even had proposals for more expansion of e.g. Sauda than the government went in for. In contrast to the Christian People's Party, we have been hard on the concessions for gas power plants and tried to accommodate as much as we could. When the representative Rahm also says that the Innovation Company in Grenland is almost the result of the driving role of the Government, I would like to remind the representative that this was something the Workers' Party proposed in 2001. I think it's very good that it now seems to be coming into place, but in the name of justice, I'm going to say that it is so that we, among other things, are. through the budget agreement for the current year between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties before Christmas was pressured by the fact that this would be more rapid. We hope that it will now stand up, and that there will be enough money to do the important job it is to do, together with others, research and technology development at gas power plants, among others. with CO2 handling. When it comes to more money for research and technology development, I'm also happy with what's been given, but also there is the fact that our party has had more money. So please share your honor. Honor the One Who Should Be Honored! It is good that more people now agree on this. To the Council of State. It's certainly true what has been said about how long the concessions last, but I think there might be a need to go for a round and look at when the companies have to decide to stay within that time. Then I don't think you can lean back and wait for a new large number, even though it might have been very interesting. But after what I'm informed about, in the course of time, these companies don't have to make too long decisions, if you're going to build in time. I really hope that they make positive decisions. If we don't get to build conventional gas power plants as soon as possible, we can't get prices down, and then consumers and businesses will still face a rather uncertain time. We fully agree that we should do everything we can to get new technology as soon as possible, but unfortunately it is not there today. Then I think we have to do what we do on the sports track when we're going to run marathon or short run, we have to get out of the start block. This is also the case with regard to the issue of gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1165	The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik has had the word twice before, and is given a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1169	I feel that the Council of State in some way devalues the proposed law that has been promoted. The Committee asked the Ministry for an overview of the consequences of raising the concessional limit and, in response to the opinion of the Council of State, Einar Steensnæs, that establishing a fall in natural horsepower is a relatively comprehensive calculation carried out in the context of the concessional treatment. There is therefore no overview of the proportion of our remaining hydropower potential that constitutes falls of less than 4000 natural horsepower. At the same time, according to Statkraft's proposition, I know that Small Power AS is planning to expand 2.5 TWh in ten years. That's the best number we have. If the Council of State has a better number, which shows how small this change is, and how small the consequences will be, I'm glad that he's presenting those figures to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1176	It's one thing I very much agree with Sylvia Brustad in, and it's that the one that should be honored. I may also think that the Workers' Party must have noticed during the 1st May in Grenland, where the Innovation Company was a result of the Labour Party's policy. Therefore, I felt the need to point out that it was in fact Einar Steensnæs that provided the gas message and got it in place. But that we agree that it's going to work, I'm very happy, and then of course we can discuss the way forward there. That I am loyal to the Government should not surprise Sylvia Brustad. There's a bit of my job here in the house to be that, and I'm going to stay as long as we have the sitting government. We disagree with the question of the relationship between conventional gas power stations and, where appropriate, when we are going to build or grant new concessions and under what conditions. We have to note that we have been for a long time, and there is no reason to believe that through this debate we have become much more agreed on that very point. I would again like to point out that I believe that the Government has a comprehensive and good energy policy, where gas with so-called CO2 management is included as an important part of a future strategy. It could help to do something about the force balance. I repeat what I said: I often feel in energy policy that we are not able to get a full focus on what is really a problem, namely the growth of energy consumption in general and of electricity in particular. Maybe we should have had that debate even more. So to the question that Ingvild Vaggen Malvik raises. The representative, Malvik, is discussing an issue that has not been raised in the committee and is not being discussed in Stortinget today. I wish we could concentrate on the security of supply communication now, and at least let the committee give a case before we invite a wide-ranging debate in the Storting on this matter. I don't think the Storting is prepared to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1187	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 5. [[Fotation, see page 2822]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1203	St. pp. No 46 on the Convention on the Rights of Use of Waterfalls Forest Foss and Melkefoss in the Pasvik Watercourse has gone through the Energy and Environment Committee without any comments other than that a unanimous committee has brought forward some key elements of the landfill proposal and has given them its support. Therefore, a unanimous committee supports Pasvik Kraft AS being granted a right of use concession for the waterfalls in Skogfoss and Melkefoss, under the conditions proposed by the NVE. However, I would like to draw up a small element in the matter. Pasvik Kraft AS applied on 7 August 2002. The application is based, inter alia, on: that Pasvik Kraft AS and their partners in the Pasvikvasstraket and Enaresjön wanted the case to be dealt with as soon as possible. It went over a year and a half after the application was promoted to St. Prop. No 46 came. There is no information in the landfill proposal that warrants such length of proceedings. With those comments, I present the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1212	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2825]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1227	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1234	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for constructive cooperation, which has led us to arrive at a somewhat consensual position, with a few exceptions that I think are nuances. I will come back to this later and take to myself the Advance Party's vision when it comes to catching whiting. I assume that SV will work out its proposal when it comes to weighing options. When I look at the message, it is clear that it contains many good and constructive recordings. I feel that the committee has sewn this together, tightened it up and made it a little bit more concrete. We in the Progress Party could plan to go even further in the concreteization and even further in the case of making some decisions that would be best for the industry. I also understand that this is a so-called 'touchy' case, and that it may be difficult to take too long steps at a time. However, I feel that the Committee has started well. It is now hoped that the Government will take seriously what the majority of the Committee has achieved and that they will implement the measures for which the Committee is largely involved. It is important that the Stortinget now collect continues in order to achieve a good implementation. To put it this way: there is a time for debate, there is a time for decision, and there is a time for implementation of decisions. I expect the Council of State will confirm this later today in its article. It is important to clarify that an integrated committee now wants to have an ecosystem-based management of marine mammals – in fact, an ecosystem-based management of the entire marine environment, taking into account the fishing industry, taking into account the fishing industries involved in selling and tormenting, and that we increase the pay for pampering and self-afraiding and at the same time increase the take-out without feeling that any of the populations are under threat. It's important to get involved. I think it's important to realize that if you want to maintain the shortage in the marine sector, in the marine environment, it's important that we house these industries productively. I think that if we don't, we might get a breakdown in the ecosystem that will make resources clearly reduced, and we'll face a situation that'll be difficult. President, I think the time is a little bit wrong. I only got 5 minutes to lead, while I should have had 10 minutes. It's going to be so much. If we take the cell stock for granted, it is clear that he has increased monthly in later times. What's a problem with self-anxiety is that we can't actually take the small quotas we've set up. This means that we must now first and foremost base all our efforts on regaining self-anxiety as a nourishment. The entire committee realizes that we are forced to enter the industry with financial support. I see that here we have to buy services from some fishing boats that are able to go into the ice and catch the sales. This should be aimed at catching, investing, product development and marketing. It's important to get there. It is also important to look at our neighbouring countries. Even if it's a piece for Canada, it's clear that Canada now has a grip that we should follow closely. Now we have to look forward. I believe that if we put this right now, and maybe even with time and time, the proposal of the Progress Party that I expect will be voted down, simply to open up to increased catches of whites, this industry will be profitable in the long term. It will be a strength for the Norwegian fishing industry. I want to make it clear that we need to be careful so that we don't build a new fishing fleet and a new self-afraid fleet that requires quotas, quotas that need to be taken from other industries. It's important that we get an ecosystem-based management of the marine mammals. This means a management that takes decisive account of fish resources, a management that aims at optimising fish resources. It is necessary to continue and intensify research and develop new management models. But we don't have to wait too long before we start. It is important that we now take this into account. I would also like to point out that the Stortinget now asks the Government to increase the annual withdrawal of wave selections significantly in relation to the current level, in line with the recommendation from Norwegian researchers. The Committee has not chosen to quantify this. The government has said in the message that 1800 animals probably will not cause the file to grow badly. A collective committee agrees with that. When we suggest a significant increase, at least – in my opinion – it is expected that the increase will reach that figure after a reasonable short period of time. That was the number of a catch in the early 1950s and 1960s, a number that showed that the stock was not significantly down or under threat. It is therefore important that the Council of State gives a signal of how quickly he intends to implement that decision on a substantial increase, and of what he sees as a significant increase. It might be interesting to get an answer to how he interprets it. Otherwise maybe the committee and the Stortinget will help him with the interpretation, to put it this way. But it's going to be another bowl. This has been a little bit of a problem with Norway's relationship with the IWC. I feel – and it also feels the members of the committee – that the message describes the situation within the IWC correctly. It's an organization that's evolved in an unfortunate direction. From being an organisation that manages marine mammals, it has become a protest organisation that is only busy protecting. I thought it might be a little passive when we're once again trying to see if IWC can come to sense. I don't have the big faith in it. Therefore, the Committee may not have the great confidence in it when we ask the Government to consider whether NAMMCO can get a greater share and get new tasks when it comes to managing marine mammals, so that one can go from a more global administration to a more regional administration. I think that's a little bit important. That's why I think we need to follow closely what's going on within the IWC now, so that we can take the decisions that are required for us to have a resilient and ecosystem-based administration. We need to preserve the fish resources and the resource that the marine mammals are – and the value creation that is in it – so that it becomes profitable. When this is the case with white kids, I would like to make it clear that no catch is as fast and effective as the catch of white kids. So the misunderstanding that catching receipts is non-human is wrong. And that's why we might want to open it up. But as I see it, we're going to have the opportunity to resume the self-employment every year in the context of government budgets, as we're going to provide support schemes. With this, I will include the proposal from the Progress Party in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18.ana.ud1855e1266	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred. The time for the morning meeting is now late, and we meet again at the evening meeting. 18th@item: inlistbox
