ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e90	The representatives of Morten Højlund, Finn Kristian Marthinsen, Eli Sollied Överaas and Arne Lyngstad, who have been licensed, have again taken up the seat. The called alternates of the Rogaland County, Ingrid Fiskaa and Inger Lise Aarrestad, have taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: From the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim from 7 June until further notice. From the Højres Storingsgruppe on sick leave for the representative Michael Momyr from 7 June until further notice. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the South-Trøndelag County, Anne Kathrine Slungård, there is an application to be exempted from meeting at the Stortinget on the 7th and 8th of June under the permission of the representative Michael Momyr, for reasons of well-being. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The representatives of the goods, for the More and Romesdal counties Ottar Kaldhol and for the South Trondelag counties Anne Kathrine Slungård and Egil Hestnes, are invited to meet during the period of leave.2. Anne Kathrine Slungård and Egil Hestnes are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representative Michael Momyr.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e155	Ottar Kaldhol and Egil Hestnes are present and will take the seat. Election of the president of the set
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e161	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e171	The representative of Åslaug Haga will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e174	On behalf of Mr Ågot Valle and myself, I would like to make a proposal to set up a Commission to present to the Storting a statement on the constitutional aspects of any EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e179	The representative of Sylvia Brustad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e182	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Nybakk, Ann Helen Rui and myself, I would like to make proposals for the reorganization of the sale of the East Poles, so that it remains in public ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e188	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after that date. 1 to 5 on the current map has been completed and then total voting after case No. 6 to 11 at the end of the day’s meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e202	A member of the Lagtinget shall be elected instead of the representative of Leif Lund, who has resigned at death. The President is asking for proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e207	I suggest Rita Tveiten.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e212	Rita Tveiten has been proposed as a member of the Lagginget. Other proposals are not available, and the President assumes that they can be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e234	Everyone in the committee, except SV, is in favour of retaining the form of government we have today, namely the monarchy. What the rest of Storting's members are in favour of, we'll first see in the vote. With today's 7th of June, and 99 years since the decision of the Storting to dissolve the Union, there may be some historical facts. The decision in Stortinget led to strong reactions from the Swedes, and they called for a referendum. On 28 July 1905 the Stortinget decided that such a referendum would take place. As early as 13 August, therefore, a referendum was held on whether one was in favour of or against the policy of the Government and the Storting on the Union’s resolution. A massive campaign led to 368 392 votes in favour and 184 against. Those who had the right to vote were all men over the age of 25. It was then independent of income. Leading women launched a signature campaign and a signature action in favour of the Union resolution, and it actually led to 279,878 signatures, which were given by these women on 22 August. That was impressive. The second referendum in 1905 was held on 12 and 13 November, following a decision in the Grand Duchy on 31 October. It was about the future state of Norway. It was not obvious to all the North that the monarchy was to be the preferred state form. There was not the same consensus on the state form as it had been on the Union resolution. The result, however, was in the referendum, which was held over two days, that 259,563 voted in favour of the monarchy and 69,264 voted against. Some claim that if we were to choose the form of government today, many more would probably vote for the Republic. That's going to be the wrong starting point for me. We have to take the form of government we have today, and it is our task to assess whether it is necessary to change the form of government from monarchy to republic. Of course, the members of the Committee have had the debate on the monarchy taking place in the media, in which chronicles and readings argue both for and against. Of course, we have also seen the newspaper's poll about the same thing. As it is, so it is, and so it must be in a democracy. But as the majority sees it, there is a basis for saying that the monarchy has a broad uprising in the people. On April 17, our enthronement was baptized. In the speeches, among other things, Bishop Stålsett that the Kingdom is in front of a completely new time. Among other things, he said: also that she must be young, as her father was allowed to be, and then the time will show if she becomes queen. And as the bishop correctly added, ‘If the people will.’ In the comments of the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party, we would like to stress that if, once in the future, it would be necessary to change the form of government, we believe that it is the people through a referendum that must give their advice. The majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal of the SV on the introduction of the Republic in Norway be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e257	The present draft constitution from SV is a repetition here in Stortinget. If it hasn't been promoted in every big session, it's at least been up a number of times. Of course, it is the full right of individual representatives and parties to propose amendments to the Constitution, even if they have been rejected in earlier periods, but for their own part I find it somewhat presumptuous and totally unnecessary to repeat and repeat previous proposals when there has been no material new that would indicate a change in the position taken earlier by the Parliament. When I drew myself a post, it was primarily to comment on a comment in the settings of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. They have been injured to write the following: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers’ Party and the Progress Party indicate that the monarchy in Norway was introduced in due course following a referendum.’ For the sake of Storting itself, this cannot be undisputed. That would be embarrassing. At best, this note is a very upresis formulation, at worst it bears witness to great gaps in the knowledge of Norway’s history, for there is no basis for saying that the monarchy was introduced by a referendum in 1905. The Norwegian monarchy has roots that go back more than a thousand years in time. During these years, Norway has had more than 60 regents as an unbroken tradition back to the Viking Age. We actually had monarchy when the Constitution came into existence in 1814. We also had a monarchy when this house was put into use in 1866. What I assume is that the members of the Committee from the Labour Party and the Progress Party intended to say with their comments – and it is well confirmed, in so far as also by the statements made by the President-in-Office – was that the monarchy was confirmed by the referendum that took place on 12 and 13 November 1905, a referendum that came about after Prince Carl stated that he was willing to accept the offer to become king if this was the will of the Norwegian people. The referendum therefore appeared primarily as a popular kingship, although the form of state monarchy or republic was also the subject. The result was a strong declaration of trust to Prince Carl and a strong confirmation that the monarchy was the state form that the Norwegian people wanted to continue with. Otherwise, I am a little surprised that SV, as indicated in the setting, joins the Workers' Party and the Advance Party's remark that: «many advocates that the people should be advised by referendum if there is a sufficient majority in the Storting for a change of form of government». I have the definite impression that SV has been, and is, towards the monarchy anyway. What should be the purpose of a referendum? Does this mean that SV will follow the advice of the people and state its opposition to the monarchy if the majority of the people in a future referendum confirm once again that it is the monarchy we are to have as our state form? I would recommend that the Right-wing Representatives vote against the draft Constitution in Document No. 12:1 for 1999-2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e280	The question of changing the form of state in Norway from monarchy to republic is a fundamental issue that I am quite sure is shared opinions about in the vast majority of parties. It is also with us in the Progress Party. Of course, change in state form may be appropriate in some countries, where the democratic rights of the people are not adequately respected. This is not the case in Norway. We have a monarchy based on culture and tradition, and we have a very well-functioning democracy. Nor is there any doubt that the royal house enjoys great respect and trust in the Norwegian people. The party of progress is of the opinion that the royal family is good ambassadors for Norway. We have history of monarchy, and it works well with us in Norway. The real power, however, lies with the people elected here in the Stortinget. It ensures democratic processes and the people's influence. I think that this discussion would have been more justified if there had been a debate in the people, if this question had been a real problem for the citizens. I don't think that's how this is. In fact, there is a certain debate, some posts, chronicles, etc., which was also discussed by the rapporteur, but it is obvious that the Norwegian people are well satisfied with the monarchy and the royal house that we have in Norway. We are therefore opposed to the fact that the Storing should go in and make decisions based on what is present in this proposal, without this being anchored to a far greater extent in the people than is the situation today. We are therefore going to vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e293	The proposal from Rolf Rikvam and myself is basically justified. The principle of this is that a hereditary monarchy, as we have in Norway, is not consistent with modern statehood and a democratic system of peoples. In other words, there is a fundamental reason that a country's head of state should not inherit its position, but be chosen by the people in elections. Furthermore, it means that there is nothing in this but that it is wise for a parliament from time to time to discuss how our country should be governed. Our royal family has performed its functions in the pact with both traditions and, not least, our demands for the royal house. That is why it is in many ways easier to discuss the monarchy in your own country in the Grand Duchy than it will be in the parliaments of many other countries in Europe that also have monarchy, where you can rightly criticise the monarch and the monarch's family for acting in a way that makes this debate. In Norway we have a royal family who have made their choices in the pact with good traditions and in the pact with democratic traditions, and therefore this is a purely fundamental question from the SV side. It is essentially important to be clear, because that means that representatives in this room can also discuss this on a principle basis, and not on a different basis. Of course, it is true that the monarchy as such has long traditions in Norway. It is absolutely right that the monarchy was not introduced in 1905 by a referendum. If you're going to believe Snorre, the monarchy has traditions all the way back to Harald Haarfare as the first gathering king in Norway. That means it's monarchy that's our nation's tradition, but that doesn't mean it's unnecessary to think about whether this tradition is right, because all generations have to go into their time. As the royal family must enter its time, Parliament must also enter its time, to see if it is necessary and appropriate to change the country's state-style. We believe in principle that this is necessary, and that is why we have also tabled this proposal. That means that the approach taken by the representative Mr Engeset to this issue, that he thinks it is a little rude or inappropriate for Parliament to discuss these kinds of issues, will I, for my part, take a great deal of distance from. That is wise, and I also believe that the royal family appreciates this kind of debate, because it is quite right, as several representatives have said, that this will confirm the strong support of the royal family not only in Parliament but also in the people. We know very well that we are not getting a majority for this proposal today. In 1905 as many as nearly 70,000 voted against, in what was then referendum number two, in the November days of 1905. It's in itself quite eye-catchingly high numbers, considering the situation that was. We also believe that it would be wise for the people – since they had a referendum in 1905 – to have the opportunity to say their own words at some point. We have not taken a position on how this should be done in practice, but we agree with the approach set out in the comments of the Progress Party and the Workers' Party. Although it's a little clumsy, there's no one in doubt about what actually lies in this, namely that once you've had a referendum, it's only the people who can try it out in a new referendum. This principle view will SV agree with – or let me say, I will agree with. Since this is a constitutional proposal, our representatives are free to deal with this. My opinion of this is, in conclusion, the following: I think it is necessary for the nation to think through how this should be. The hereditary monarchy has done its functions well, but that doesn't mean that you can't raise fundamental questions about the nation's state form from time to time. This debate is useful and necessary. Fortunately, we can have the privilege in Norway that we can discuss this on a principle basis without anyone being suspected of having a hidden agenda in this, which you could have in many other countries where they have royal families that are much more controversial. That means that from 1905 until today the Norwegian royal family has made wise choices, made wise statements, and behaved sensibly and properly in relation to the state of the country. It's a great pride. We Republicans, too, are proud of our royal house.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e313	The monarchy, as a state form, really belongs to the one-world period of violence. What's incredible is that a variety of democracy has survived far into the period of democracy, and it obviously lives as long as the variety does not challenge democracy – we have some examples in Europe where the monarchy has challenged democracy and collapsed – or it will obviously survive until those who represent that kind of monarchy, themselves recognize that the time is in for liquidation, or until the democratic system decides that that species has survived itself. I think it is important to remember that democracy is not once and for all won. Last August, a final report from the Power Investigation came. Over the course of five years, this team of researchers has been working on many exciting reports dealing with different topics. Nevertheless, the conclusions are clear in many ways, and I would like to start by quoting one conclusion, where the Authority's investigation says the following: ‘The most central change in the conditions of power in Norway is the decline of democracy in the fundamental meaning of democracy — a formal decision-making system through majority elections and elected bodies.’ A central conclusion, which is a direct response to the first part of the mandate adopted by the Stortinget, is that the People's Government is confused. Now it does not have to be wrong in itself if the confusion of the People's Government leads to power being transferred to other democratic bodies. Democracy is based not only on power through elected bodies at different levels, but on various forms of participation other than elections, parties and political movements. These various forms of supplementary democracy, such as action democracy, participatory democracy, consumer democracy, lobbying democracy, have supplemented the regime as a formal decision-making system, but it cannot replace it. Democracy is challenging, and the conditions of the People's Government and the leeway are being reduced. When the importance of democracy is transferred from popular rule as a formal form of decision-making to various forms of supplementary democracy, the confusion of the people's rule is obscured and the distinction between democracy and not democracy is unclear. The confusion of the regime is not the result of a long and tough visible power struggle between elected bodies and strong interests outside. The confusion is a deliberate policy strategy in which the aim is to commercialise and transform large parts of the public sector into a market place, and it is done in different ways. It also happens in different ways, according to the Powers Investigation. Municipal self-government has lost much of its content through rights laws, state decrees and budget constraints. Municipalities are left with the right to consult purely local matters and with administrative responsibility for state policy. It should not surprise us that now at the last municipal elections was for the first time the turnout was down to the 50s. I guess that was 58 pst. Market alignment, exemption and privatisation leave areas previously publicly controlled to market actors. The core of the welfare society is that key welfare goods, such as health, education and care in important stages of life, shall be accessible to all. There's such a close relationship between welfare state and government that I think there's a great deal of uncertainty about what will happen to the welfare state if the government is confused. It is important to see the debate on the monarchy against what is pointed out by the Powers Investigation, namely that there is a confusion of the People's Government. That is why I had hoped and believed that when we made a proposal on the introduction of the Republic as a state form, we had had a debate on democracy and understanding of democracy, because that is what it really is about at the end of the day. That is why I also hoped that more people would take part in the debate on how we will manage our democracy in the future, because we need to take a stand on what the Authority investigation points to. In this context, it is also quite natural to have a proper debate on what I call the ‘variety of the monarchy’, the kind of monarchy that has survived into our democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e329	I listened with interest to the reasons given by the two rapporteurs for their proposal and noted that there was some disparity in the approach and on the grounds of the two rapporteurs. The representatives of Rikam’s deliberations on the problems of the people’s regime are interesting, but it is very artful to link them with the question of monarchy or republic. Anyone who wants to revitalise the Swedish People's Government in today's Norway has a lot of tasks ahead of him in this house too, in terms of improving our own practice of exercising the functions of the Grand Duchy as a legislative and advocacy authority, and in terms of drawing clearer boundaries between the executive and the legislative power. But all these challenges have in common that they have nothing to do with the issue of the introduction of the Republic. The representative Djupedal had a different approach. I heard his posts almost as a sort of excuse because SV continues to repeat the proposal despite the fact that you are fully aware that it will have no upswing in the people or in the Stortinget. I perceived Djupedal so that he got close by saying that the purpose of the proposal was to get a new declaration of trust to the monarchy in Norway, and that is a good purpose, of course. One could well with until certainty the limit probability predicted that that was exactly what one would experience in the Storting today. In brackets, it is well a calendar coincidence that the examination of the proposal this time falls just on the date of 7 June. There is reason to ask the question why republicans in Norway have such a long uphill slope when trying to fight to join the idea of republic. There might be a lot of reasons for that. The main reason I think for my part is that those who are the principal adherents of republican state form in Norway have never taken the trouble to agree on what kind of republic they really want to establish in Norway. Indeed, within the combined term Republic there is a large, very large, range of different forms of government and different forms of borderline migration between the state-elected and the state-executive. There is a presidential government in which the president has virtually as large powers as a Norwegian government today, on his own hand. There is a presidential government of a purely symbolic nature, which is in practice about the same state form as we have with the restricted monarchy in today's Norway. If there is any point in discussing the introduction of the Republic in Norway, it is worth noting where on this scale a new state form of Norway is supposed to be. One sometimes gets the impression when the followers of the Republic speak from the pulpit of the Storting, that the kind of monarchy we have in today's Norway is a peculiar sight. We have, as we know, two neighbouring countries with which we have shared the monarchy through our history, Denmark and Sweden, which still have monarchy as a state form, and which have no intention of changing it. In addition, among our neighbours, we have another country that has republican state form, Iceland, which is currently in a deep constitutional crisis because the president has refused to accept a law that has normally been passed by the populace in Everything. Republican state forms are not without problems either! There are, as the representative Engeset pointed out, some of the properties in the comments written in the configuration of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. That the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have expressed themselves in a distorted way in what happened in 1905 is to the extent that a beauty mistake can be reckoned, I would assume. As you know, there were no changes to the Constitution or to the state regime in Norway in 1905. There it was full continuity. On the other hand, there was a change of royal houses, when the royal house Bernadotte left the Norwegian throne and we got the royal house that we have today. More real is the comment from SV in the option. Because when it is said that ‘many speak for the people to be advised by referendum if there is a sufficient majority on the Grand Council for a change of form of government’, the only natural reading of such a formulation is that one imagines that the Grand Council will first vote and find out whether there is a constitutional majority, and then one has to ask the people to be consulted. In that case, there will be a split new approach! You have to be allowed to ask yourself what it should be good for. If an advisory referendum is to be held, it must reasonably be in advance of the fact that the Storting is dealing with a proposal for a change of state. The interesting question is whether, in that case, there is a signal that SV will in reality leave this decision to the populace, and in that case, it will reject its principally justified proposal for a change of state. I hope we get a clear answer to that, because it's important in terms of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e348	It is quite obvious that our royal family has strong support. The strong support of the people is primarily due to the fact that they have exercised their functions in the pact with what is a democratic tradition, and what is the will of the people. Discussing what kind of government a nation should have, or what a republic might look like, is part of the democratic process that every nation must actually go through. Fortunately, democracy is a process. For example, the hall in which we are now sitting has acquired power and has also depreciated power after democratic processes in which no answer has really been given in advance. It's the Storting that, in fact, after an endless process of dialogue with the people, both tells what to actually decide, and what to give away by decision-making authority. That's how our state policy will work. Our state policy has changed as to how the relationship between royal house, grandeur and government has been continuously. What we who put in this proposal, of course, see for us, is that the proposal itself will not change our state-style. We're the nights realists in that way. That means that we understand that there is no majority in favour of the proposal. For my part, I have to be allowed to say that I think it is wise that this does not become a majority for this through this type of treatment in Stortinget. But it is clear that if there is a significant number of Republican votes in today's vote, there will be a signal that perhaps magnification, government and monarchs together must think through how this country will actually lead in the future. That's really what this proposal is more than anything else about. The proposal is not an excuse for being Republicans, which a representative here was injured to say. This is simply an absolutely necessary debate in a modern democracy, and that debate is not justified in any excuse because the royal family has done its duties well. But there is no excuse that the Storting doesn't necessarily have to take this debate from time to time. Then we have a couple of purely practical constitutional difficulties, namely the relationship between a constitutional change in the Stortinget and a referendum. There was also a representative who took it up. It is clear that if the Storting in plenary makes a change to the Constitution, the Storting in plenary has made a change to the Constitution as such. Then you don't need a referendum. That's obviously right. But what we also know is that the royal family that we have today was deployed after a referendum. It makes this relationship unconstitutional in the past, and so actually is a problem, or a challenge or a relationship, on which the Storting has to spend some time. From my point of view – and that will be from my point of view, because this Constitutional proposal has been tabled by two individual representatives from our party – it will mean that if there is a significant minority in this Chamber who believe that a change in governance can be sensible, then corruption and government must start a process, and in that process there must be a referendum. But as our proposal is formulated, in this process, from my point of view, it will be such that at some point, after the sitting monarch is either dead or has renounced the throne, a new state form is introduced. But this is dissolved land. If you take a discussion about this, and in this context you are polemic or trying to be challenging, you would have to be, but then you have an academic approach to this, not an approach that suggests that those who are actually Republicans in Norway believe that we should have a Republican form of government, and that it is democratic and essentially the right one. At the same time, you do not have to believe that the royal family does not perform its duties well. If you call this an excuse, I think it's going to be a too academic and a too polemic approach to what's actually a debate that I think many people outside of the Storting find interesting. The interesting thing is that if you go ask people what they want in principle as a form of government, there are amazingly many Republicans in Norway. There are amazingly many who basically believe that republic is the right form of government. I would think that the vast majority of citizens who say this do not put any criticism of the existing form of government in it, but that there is a principle approach in it. Therefore, the Storting must also take that discussion from time to time. That is why the representative, Mr Rikvam and myself, have promoted this proposal. We have a principle approach to this question, and then the path has to be a little bit more as you go, without necessarily having to have all the possible answers. Fortunately, in almost all the democratic advances that have been made, both in our nation and in other nations, one has not known what the outcome would be. Fortunately, democracy is still a process. We don't know the answer at the end of that time. We shouldn't know the answer, but in what direction we want to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e361	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e364	I think the representative Inge Wohnning asked a very crucial and important question that I had hoped Øystein Djupedal would answer. He didn't. I would like to put it one more time in a row. When SV goes in for Republic, who is SV thinking of as head of state? According to the Constitutional Bill, you just put the government in place of the king. In that case, it might be the Prime Minister who was also head of state. If it's not the prime minister who's head of state, you have to have a president like you, for example. has in the United States and in France, which is therefore also the elected political leader, or should it be more like the Icelandic system? I think it's important to get an explanation from SV on what you've been thinking, because there are two very different types of republics you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e373	I thank the representative, Mr Hagen, for the question, because my post was missing. If this process ends with the Storting adopting this, I think it will be the Prime Minister who will fill this function, until you have actually thought through what kind of republic you should have. What kind of republic you were supposed to have, a part of my post revolved around. Whether that is the Icelandic form of the Republic, the German or the Finnish or to the extent that the American, which I believe very few in Norway would really like, we do not have an answer. But during a transitional period, it would be natural that it would be the Prime Minister who fulfilled that function – if the Storting and a referendum had gone in order to abolish the kingdom, so that the kingdom would no longer be the form of government in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e381	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e384	It was a bit of a strange experience to listen to Inge's pay approach. I don't think he had a principle approach at all. It was polemic to some of the relationships we took up. It was almost pathetic when he concluded that he expected SV to at least clarify how a referendum should be held before we could proceed with these kinds of issues. This is a fundamental question, and I'm trying to draw up a fundamental debate. But I agree with Inge Wohnung in one area, that the debate on democracy in Norway does not depend on how we should develop and strengthen democracy, and it does not depend on what happens to the monarchy. My point was that it would be natural to see this in a context. We need to take a debate on democracy and democracy's future in the light of the power investigation. What was my point was that in that debate it would also be natural to include the state form and how we will organise the state form, the kind of monarchy that we have, versus a republic. I'm reasonably surprised when Inge Wohnung argues to refer to Iceland and the deep constitutional crisis that they now have. He says that a republican state form is not without problems either. Dear friend, that's not it. We don't choose state form based on whether it creates problems or not. We choose state form from a principle approach to democracy: what kind of democracy we want, how we need to develop democracy, and how we need to strengthen it. That's our starting point, and I had hoped that more people were willing to go into a debate about here and now. There are many possibilities for what kind of president we might have: we can have direct choices, an American model with great powers. For my own part, I don't see that it's the most realistic. Let me underline that. We can imagine a German model, where we choose a president with very limited powers. That's the shape that's closest to what I see as the best option. As for what should happen if our anti-prudential proposal were adopted here today, it would be most natural for the President of the Grand Duchy to take over some of the powers that are now with the monarch and with the monarchy. It would probably be the most natural thing. Our starting point was a desire for a fundamental debate and a principle approach, but I record that it is not possible to achieve it. I hope that at the next crossroads when we are going to discuss democracy, it is at least possible to come a little further with the debate on democracy and the future of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e397	The representative Engeset commented on a comment in the setting and the representative Wohnung commented on it as a real estate. I see that it can be misunderstood and that it is unexplained. What is meant is that the referendum in November 1905 gave the people in Norway the opportunity to say their words when it came to the question of whether they wanted the monarchy or the republic. That, as far as I know, had never happened before. You might say: natural enough. Through it, a large majority of the Norwegian people confirmed that the monarchy was preferable, and the referendum responded to the Danish prince Carl's wish for a referendum before accepting the offer to become king. That's what's really hiding behind the somewhat imprecise formulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e408	After hearing the answer to my reply to Øystein Djupedal, I have to say that I am more attached to the belief in our existing management system than I might have been before. So it turns out that what SV has in mind is to abolish the monarchy. Then you have to discuss for some years what to have instead. Just during the transitional period, as Djupedal called it, the Prime Minister should be head of state — a relatively new construction, which does not seem very thoughtful. If, then, in this debate on a republic, we are going to have a president who is going to be head of state, and who is going to do more symbolic acts like that on Iceland, in Germany, and in Finland – that is, essentially complementing the function of being a common symbol – is really the question: If it is going to be a more national compilation symbol, is it better to have an amateur elected every four or six years, compared to having some professionals who have been trained for the functions of their whole life since they were born? Of course not. Then the better it is to have someone who has become a professional, a royal family, where the one who will inherit the throne, right from the time he is born, will be in training and training for that job. Besides, it's the same family. What we see in practice when the royal family or its members travel around is actually a huge interest. They're a collective symbol. So it's sometimes events that make some newspapers write a little bit negative, but as an institution, the royal family obviously seems to be bringing together. It wouldn't be a elected president, where one might be a former leading politician elected against another candidate with 55 pst. against 45 p.m., and then his family will also become a uniting symbol. It'll be too stupid. Had SV had the view that they were in favour of a system more like that in France and the United States, where the elected president is also the head and appoints his own government, we would have had an understanding to discuss this on a principle basis. But first you have to come up with what should be the alternative to the monarchy, in order to get an interesting debate. This need to have a transitional and discussion period after the abolition of the monarchy will not be a very clever one. I think it's a little unprofessional approach if you follow the recipe to abolish the monarchy first and then discuss for five to eight–ten years, and then agree that yes, we reintroduce the monarchy. If you had understood what the alternative was, it would be interesting to have a debate. The debate would then go on the political direction of the country to a greater extent than on the current function of the king and the royal family, which is very important in terms of uniting a people. The king and the royal family are for everyone in this country. They're symbols and they're uniting, which is very important in a time when there's too much to split. Something that's really collective and common, we should keep that. But I want to challenge SV to, the next time they bring up a constitution proposal, maybe to think through what the option should be, so that there will be a slightly more fruitful debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e419	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e422	It's a little interesting considering the debates that have previously been in this Chamber on the election of the President of the Storting, to hear Hagen's representative's concern that amateurs should be elected president, but I'm going to refrain from going too far into it. I have to say I'm a little in the mood of the representative Hagen's understanding of the situation, for example. In Finland, for it can be seen that in countries that choose to have a popular symbol character, it actually affects the persons who enter it and how they act. I believe that the representative Hagen will agree that if, against assumption, he would ever become a Grand President, it would be a different role than the role of party leader. I don't think it would have been as amateur treated as the representative Hagen seems to fear, but he's an expert in that field, so I might be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e429	Carl I. Hagen in response to a line – we amateurs in between!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e432	I will allow myself to say that when it comes to the election of the Grandfather, all candidates are automatically professional, because you have to be a member of the Grandfather in order to be a Grandfather. Then you have to be a politician, and then you're part of this assembly that you have to run. So there's clearly that you get professionals, no matter which person it might be that was chosen. When it comes to being the nation's main family, it's my view that although very many people would be able to go into the role and very many would be able to perform parts of the functions, they would never be the uniting symbol of a royal family. That's because probably only a little over half of the population would be behind. Now one might say that a president could be elected by the National Assembly, which is also done somewhere, but I would think that in any case he would not be able to have the uniting function that our royal family now has, and not over a period as long as the case is with a royal family.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e441	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e444	I look forward to a cup of coffee with Carl I. Hagen to discuss amateurs versus professionals. I think that might be an exciting and fun debate. I agree with Carl I. Hagen that a royal house in given situations may well be able to gather the people in a different way than a elected president can do. We have experience for that, I think, but that means it's a royal house that actually gathers. Norway is probably in that situation, but is one of the few monarchies in the world today that have a royal house that has such support in the people. There are probably some amateurs among the royal houses around Europe too. At least it looks like this. What I asked for the floor was that the representative, Mr Requam, said that this was a fundamental debate. A fundamental debate on the form of government, I don't think anyone would mind going into it. It's needed from time to time. I agree. But what SV invites to do here is not a fundamental debate. What SV invites to do is change the state custom. It is to remove the royal house, cease as a monarchy and introduce a republic, before there has been a fundamental debate about what such a republic should look like. What will a royal house be replaced by? There may be a discussion that you should probably have in all monarchies from time to time, so that you know what you might have instead of changing the state form. I believe, for my part, that SV has bombed a little here if you think that Parliament has been invited to a fundamental debate on state form, because you do not. The Stortinget has been invited to change state form before we have any model for what this state will look like. Then to Inge Remuneration and to Angeset. Of course, they're quite right, as Brørby says. We are aware, of course, that the monarchy, the hereditary monarchy, existed in Norway until Kalmar and after that, and that the monarchy as a state form was confirmed again at Eidsvoll in 1814, but what we have tried to say, in a clumsy way, is that in 1905 the people confirmed the monarchy as a form of rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e458	I have always assumed that this was what the representative, Mr Engebretsen, and also the representative, Mr Bröhrby, confirmed that this was what was meant to be, and that it was just an unfortunate form of expression. But since the committee settings are archived for history, it's a little important that it becomes clear what was meant, and what was not meant, by entering such a formulation in the setting. Otherwise, it is fascinating to listen to the internal seminar between the two proposers. There are obviously quite different perceptions of what the principle element, which the representative Rikvam is so concerned about, really goes on. For the interpretation put forward by the representative, Mr Djupedal, that if this proposal were to have a majority in the Grand Duchy today, it would mean that in a number of years we would have a state form in Norway where it is the Prime Minister who will be the head of state at the same time, in an indefinite time – what is the principle of that? According to the representative, Mr Rikvam, this must be a step forward in democracy. In Norway, we have now had minority governments for more than 20 years. It will basically mean that you want to sit with a head of state that is not only not directly elected by the people, but also not indirectly elected by the Storting. It's a relatively original version of a republican state form. Then Norway will really stand out in the flora of states, not only in Europe, but in the rest of the world as well. What I find hard to understand is that it was going to be a fundamental step forward in democracy, or that it was going to strengthen the People's Government, to raise the Prime Minister to the head of state. So that's where I think I almost have to ask the representative, Mr. Requam, for an explanation, what is the principle of democratic progress in a transition to such a state. As I said, listening to internal seminars is fascinating. But I would like to recommend that the next time you take the time to carry out that seminar in advance, so that you are somewhat familiar with what you have asked the Stortingen to decide. Two more things, finally. It is, in my opinion, a rather immodest mix when discussing the problem of democracy and the monarchy as if there were two versions of the same problem, or assuming, as the representative of Reikham seems to do, that abolishing the monarchy per. definition is a step forward in the vitalisation of the rule of law. There is no empirical coating whatsoever, as I know, for such a process of thought. There is no evidence that those States which have a short or long experience of a republican form of government of any kind, per. definition has a more vital rule of the people or local democracy, of which Rikvam was involved, than, for example, the Kingdom of Norway. Nor is there any point in the power investigation, to which the representative of Rikvam refers, or in any other research, known to me, that gives me any reason to assume that abolishing the restricted monarchy as a form of government, as we have in Norway today, would solve one of the problems pointed out by the power investigation. These problems will be exactly the same after you have done that operation, as they are before you have done that operation. That's why I think you have to do a lot more in-depth work if you're going to be able to convince you that you have a so-called principle approach to the question of statehood. It is then necessary to decide first what principle you are talking about, and so far, in the current debate on the position of the monarchy in Norway, I have not discovered a single argument in principle in addition to the argument that is sometimes put forward, namely that every citizen born in the Kingdom of Norway should have the same chance of becoming head of state. That is, of course, a principle approach. It is, in my opinion, an ideological approach that is pure-bred individual-liberalist, and I actually didn't think that was what the ideological platform SV professed to be. The very last thing: I have not yet been given an explanation of what SV has meant by his remark in the committee position, where it is explicitly said that referendum should be considered if there should be a sufficient majority, i.e. 2/3 majority, on the Stortingen for a change of form of government. There must have been some thought behind when you wrote this in, and I would very much like to know what that thought is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e473	Just a short line to try to give an answer to Inge Wohnung's question: what is meant by that comment in the committee's position is that if we had seen through the committee's discussion that a proposal like this seemed to be adopted in the Stortinget, we would have put forward a proposal for an advisory referendum. Per. Today, with the committee position in place, it is fairly clear what the outcome will be, and there does not seem to be any strong uprising in this room about a referendum on this issue at this stage. But we agree with the consideration of the Labour Party and the Advance Party in the Committee that, if that were to be the case, then there was a realistic possibility that the Stortinge would adopt a change in the Constitution that entailed a change of form of government, a referendum should first be held. I can so far join in the Wage statement that this could have been more precisely formulated, but it is good that the wages get something to spend their time on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e483	I thank you for your clarification. I then understand that what was meant by the comment is that if the committee position had shown that there was a potential majority for the draft Constitutional Amendment tabled by Djupedal and Reikvam, SV would have changed the opinion on the procedure and instead would have voted in favour of a referendum. That's very interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e488	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute. Does the President suggest that a proposal should also be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e493	For safety reasons, I start by including our proposal in the setting. Obviously, it's not done before. I must be allowed to say to Inge Wohnning that it is strange that he argues and polemizes against things that he has obviously designed himself. Let me make that clear one more time: we don't think changing state form and abolishing the type of monarchy is what is needed to revitalize democracy. But the whole democratic debate is part of that debate. That's what we're trying to say. It's a strange notion of democracy, not to emphasize that it's an important part of a democracy that a people should choose their state head. Involving this with ‘individual liberalism’ -- it was a little bit unclear what it really was. So to Carl I. Hagen: I was a little worried for a period, especially initially, for Carl I. Hagen mentioned this with professionalism, and that you couldn't have amateurs to be head of state. Then I imagined that many of us sitting here on the Stortinget, of course, are amateurs. We haven't been here in 28 years. So most of them are amateurs. But then he clearly defined it so that all of us who are here are professional. That was a comfort to us. [[The President clubs.]] But such an attitude towards elections and the choice of people — what goes on amateurs and professionals — seems at first a little daunting in a democratic context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e502	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e505	Today we are discussing a proposal from the Republicans. I am pleased with the attitude that exists today and is likely to be adopted. We can vote for it, no doubt. We've tried to be president of Norway. Looks like he was the prime minister. It wasn't very successful, to say it mildly. I'm glad we have a royal house to look up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e510	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e513	What kind of state head a state has is a fundamentally important question — the functions of the state at large. How to become head of state may be a principled question, but at least a much less interesting question. I note, after the last speech by the representative, that he is hovering in the belief that he has put forward a proposal that requires us to have a direct elected head of state in Norway, while the representative, Mr Djupedal, claims that he has made a proposal that, at least for a longer transitional period, the Prime Minister should be head of state in Norway. It would have been an advantage if the two gentlemen had agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e520	Just a brief comment to clarify a misunderstanding from the representative of Rikvam when it came to professional and amateurs. When I use the word professionally, people who have received training, who have been trained, who have acquired a special insight and knowledge over a long period of time, and who may be in the category of a professional. So an amateur is one that doesn't have any of the background for the function you're talking about. When I said that those who make elections as prime minister are professional, it's because all such candidates will have been in the Storting for a while and thus acquire knowledge about how the Storing works, and about the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government – that's a lot of things. They're professional. But the same people aren't necessarily professional in being head of state. When it comes to travelling around and spreading luster over assemblies, awakening wild enthusiasm among children and young people and all the other things our royal family does, you're an amateur. So it depends on what function you're talking about. A person may be professional and particularly qualified in one area, but it doesn't have to mean that he's in a very different area. I thought most people had realized that there's a difference between being a prime minister and being head of state in a country, and their functions, but I hope that whoever didn't perceive this for the first time has now perceived it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e530	Øystein Djupedal has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e533	Fortunately, it is in politics as in life: it is for us amateurs. It has to go a little bit along the way. Let me just take a short line to the representative Wage, who continues to polemise, uncertainly for what reason. On the way that SV has gone, and we invite Stortinget to be part of, of course, many of the conditions are unknown. That means you shouldn't and can't have all the answers. Let me, however, just take exactly this on which I was specifically challenged. Given that this process in the Storting and in the Committee meant that there was reason to believe that there was a majority of altered states, such a process must have been initiated. If it turned out that there was no legislative or electoral procedure for the election of President in a transitional phase, if necessary, it would be natural for the Prime Minister to have these functions. But the point is that this is what we'll have time to discuss, because there's nothing to suggest that we get a majority today. That means that there will be a new round, maybe in four years, and that it will be interesting to discuss these questions further. I am very surprised that a parliamentarian can pretend that there are clear answers, with two lines below, to these kinds of questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e542	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2989]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e558	Today, the budget deals with two different proposals for amendments to the Constitutional Act § 93, which reads as follows: ‘In order to ensure international peace and security or to promote international law and cooperation, the Grand Thing may, with three quarters of a majority, agree that an international association to which Norway is associated or joins, in a restricted area, shall be able to exercise powers which, in accordance with this Constitution, otherwise fall within the jurisdiction of the Governments of the State, but shall not have the power to amend this Constitution. When Storthinget has to give his consent, as in the consideration of Constitutional proposals, at least two thirds of its members should be present.The provisions of this Section shall not apply by participating in an international association whose decisions have purely international effect for Norway.» Paragraph 93 of the Constitution thus applies to agreements which involve the renunciation of sovereignty to a certain extent to international bodies, if the renunciation of sovereignty has a direct effect in Norway, i.e. that Norwegian citizens and Norwegian enterprises will be directly obliged by decisions of the international body. Without going into the recent debate on EU membership in relation to the Constitution, it can be noted that the Constitution § 93 is among the paragraphs that may be applicable at the time of any Norwegian entry into the European Union. § 93 also includes the conclusion of agreements in which the scope of direct transfer of authority has been communicated, but where the agreement requires a continuous development of the rules where the substance of the legislation is actually formulated outside the control of Norwegian state bodies. The EEA Agreement was thus concluded by a Section 93 Decision. Paragraph 93 will apply in future to the conclusion of similar agreements. It is an overall committee which points out that the two referenda on EC/EU membership have established the custom of the people's Council to be obtained by means of an advisory referendum before the Grand Duchy takes a decision on an entry into the European Union. The first of the two amendments to Section 93 involves a fundamental legalisation of this practice, by adding Section 93 as a new third sentence of the first paragraph, which is replaced by the following: "Before the Grand Thing takes its decision, it shall have an advisory referendum on the case." The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, consider it right that this practice be enshrined in the Basic Law in relation to the waiver of sovereignty and that it be extended to cover all the waiver of sovereignty under Section 93. Questions about the waiver of sovereignty of a character and a scale which is such that it falls within the scope of Section 93 will be among the most fundamental issues to be addressed by the Stortinget. Such a waiver of sovereignty will have far-reaching implications for Norwegian society. A constitutionalisation of a system in which the people's councils are to be sought before the Stortinges decide on such issues will, in the majority's view, represent important democratic progress. On this basis, the majority recommends that proposal No. 13 of Document No 12 for 1999-2000. It is reassuring that there is a broad consensus that the people should be heard directly in the EU case. It is further, in my view, very gratifying that a majority in this Chamber – in fact almost two thirds of the representatives – seems to agree that the people should also be heard in similar matters. The EEA Agreement has had a very large impact on Norwegian policy. In a wide range of areas, the agreement provides a framework and premise for the decisions taken in this Chamber. The fact that a majority of the Stortinget now wants a referendum before a similar agreement is concluded is, in my view, a major step forward. The second amendment to Section 93 is presented in three alternatives. Option 1, which is the proposal recommended by a minority in the Committee, proposes the following as a new second paragraph of Section 93: ‘The Kingdom of Norway may become a Member of the European Union if the Grand Thinget, with two Thirds plural, welcomes a Royal Proposition on the ratification of an Accession Agreement. When Storthinget has to give his consent, at least two thirds of its members should be present." A majority of the Committee – all other than the representatives of the Right – rejects, in principle, the inclusion of a specific provision in the Basic Act on EU registration. In the view of the majority, rules relating to the waiver of sovereignty should be of a general nature and should apply to all matters covered by Section 93 of the Basic Law. On this basis, the majority recommends that this proposal be rejected. In its observations, the minority of the Committee states that the proposal ‘provides an adaptation to the fact that the majority requirement under Section 93 should be the same as for amendments to the Constitution, that is to say 2/3 majority.’ I will allow myself to point out that, in the event of constitutional changes, we have different rules of play alongside the majority requirement – that proposals made in a Storting can only be dealt with after a choice – and that, therefore, with the proposals of the minority, there would in any case be different procedures for amending the Constitution and for notifying Norway into the EU. In any case, it does not seem that the idea of a special provision on EU membership will have any special support in this Chamber, and that is good in my view.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e600	I will just briefly explain – almost for the minutes – that the Labour Party, for its part, joins in what the rapporteur says here, including the background and justification of the proposals on the matter. One is to change the number of votes in the event of a waiver of sovereignty under Section 93. It may in itself be a debate that you can probably have: whether it is reasonable, right, and reasonable to have a higher majority requirement for a waiver of sovereignty than we have to change the Constitution. It is quite possible that this discussion should come, but we therefore believe, like what the rapporteur said here, that it is quite unreasonable to imagine putting a provision specifically related to EU membership into the Constitution – such a specific provision into the constitution of the country, we think, is completely unfair. The second, that we are in favour of an advisory referendum, and that it relates precisely to the application of Section 93 here in the Stortinget, we see as a step forward for the democratic thinking and the governance of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e609	The question of membership is not on the agenda. It gives us an opportunity here today to discuss the rules of the game on the basis of a desire for more democratic fairness, although I do not have the great expectation that all parties have the same understanding of the concept of democracy. At least it is clear from the Right's point of view that there is a political moral obligation to follow the advice given by the people in a referendum. From the point of view of democracy, it seems reasonable that a normal majority in such a referendum is sufficient. Proposal No. 14, from Erna Solberg, assumes that the same majority is sufficient to amend the Constitution when the referendum result is to be discussed later in the Stortinget. This implies the establishment of a qualified majority, which at the same time appears to be somewhat more reasonable than today's three-quarters requirement – a kind of more qualified compromise between minority protection and the consideration of the majority than is provided for in today's constitution. The alternatives, which also involve the introduction of the referendum institute in the Constitution, raise several issues, including: the threshold for including such an institution linked to completely different matters, or as a generally binding or advisory institution, is lower. The size should, as the Right sees it, always be sovereign in deciding whether to ask for the people's advice in a single case. In a representative democracy, decisions have been delegated to the people's representatives in elections and are reflected in the composition of the Storting. On a general basis, I suppose I can also say on behalf of the Right that we are not immediately convinced that the increase in the use of referendums, whether binding or advisory, leads to the very great democratic advance. When you look at examples, to the extent that you can call them that, like, Switzerland, they don't tempt just copying. One example of this is that women were given the right to vote once in the 1960s-1970s, which is not exactly very progressive. Nevertheless, it is clear that it may be appropriate to ask the people to be consulted through a referendum on matters of particular importance, as the EU case is. The surrender of sovereignty may be such a matter, but it does not have to be. With regard to the decision on any EU membership, it is already clear in the cards that there will be a new referendum. The referendums on the application for membership in 1972 and 1994 clearly indicate that the people should also be consulted at the next crossroads. It is a political course, but has not necessarily evolved into a constitutionally developed practice, which should then be enshrined in the Constitution. For the Right, it is of course that when the Stortinget first asks people for advice, the Stortinget should also follow the advice given. The trust crisis that will arise between the Storing and the population if a quarter plus one of the representatives here in the house were to try out the people, will not be insignificant. To this extent, it may continue to occur if the Right's proposal, by Erna Solberg, comes up by a two-thirds majority and, for example, by a majority of two-thirds. The centre party will receive 34 pst. by the votes of a subsequent election. Fortunately, this time SV has made it clear that they will follow the advice of the people. It deserves to be commended. Then we hope that we get a more worthy performance on process questions, this time than we got in 1994. In any case, SV has taken a very important step in that direction. I have deep respect for major lawyers and state lawyers who are sometimes listed as truth witnesses in this type of debate, as I personally am a medium-sized edition that the first panel and layman relative to the second. The question is, however, whether it is still right, democratically and politically, to consider a three-quarters requirement on the EU issue. Here I would say that 165 large-scale representatives, elected on behalf of the Norwegian people, have significantly better assumptions to assess that particular issue. Unfortunately, some environments in this country seem to be significantly more concerned with finding the most effective mechanisms to prevent people's views on EU issues from becoming effective than taking the people seriously. That's what I think is sad, and recommends the Right Group to support Erna Solberg's proposal. I'll bring this up on the Right's proposal, no. 2 and proposal No 1, from the Right and the Christian People's Party, to refuse to take the proposal for referenda into the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e631	The representative André Dahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e634	For the Progress Party, the principle of referenda is absolutely crucial. It is a very fundamental element of the policy on which our party is founded. It's profoundly changed, and it's a principle that must apply to us. It is therefore easy for us to join in the remarks made by the case-rapporteur here. There can be no doubt that the issue of sovereignty on a different scale, which is dealt with in Section 93 of the Constitution, must be described as so crucial and fundamental that the people's opinion should at least be heard, and we also say that it must be followed up. Today, this issue is of course about how Norway should deal with the EU, but one can also imagine that in the future there will be other alternatives or constellations to which one can stand and have to decide. We have had two referendums on the European Union, and the opinion of the people has been heard. In our opinion, with the previous procedures and choices that have been made, a custom has been established in relation to how these matters should be dealt with. It is therefore quite right, in our opinion, that we continue to deal with these matters in this way, and that we also legislate on them. We want the people to be guaranteed through a constitutional change. It's a guarantee that a majority here on the Big City can't do things of great and fundamental importance without the majority of it in the population. We therefore believe that the proposal that has been presented will make sense. With regard to the second proposal, from Erna Solberg, we are not prepared to support this. Our primary view, as I have explained, is that we should seek the advice of the people and follow it. That's our primary view. It's a pleasure that it also seems to be increasing the excitement of that principle. We therefore see no reason to change the rules of the game based on what is in Erna Solberg's proposal, and will not support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e643	Changing the Constitution in Norway is a heavy and long process. And so it should be. Changing the constitution of a country should not be easy. The size is a representative assembly and thus has the power to take political decisions. Therefore, there is very rarely a need to make use of public opinion. If we look at the use of populace in Norway, there are major, important issues where the theme has been clear, and where there are clear options that can be explored or challenged. The more complex and complex one thing is, the smaller one owns it for a people's play. The practice we have in Norway in this area works well, and we in the Christian People's Party do not see the need to overthrow it in the Constitution. Obviously, there are other issues than the question of sovereignty renunciation that might be able to ask the people about in a referendum. This applies both nationally in Stortinget and locally in the municipalities. We have this possibility today, and it's being used. In my municipality, we've had four people's casts in the last 35 years. It was an industrial project, for or against. Two concerned membership of the European Union, in favour or against. A municipal merger, it was at the municipal elections in 2003, for or against, but with a commitment to building a bridge and a special supplement from the Ministry of Local Affairs into a package. This complicated the topic significantly, so there was a debate in front of what a yes versus a no meant. The two locals were yes, but to the Union, also locally, a no was received in 1972 and 1994. I am interested in the debate that has taken place in the new applicant countries on the European Union. The basic laws of the various countries may not be the same, but a common denominator seems to be: that they have all had referendums, and that a majority of the people, yes or no, are automatically taken note of by the parliaments. So must it be in Norway. Ask one for advice from the people, yes, then follow that advice. But to lead the comparison further, there's enough room to interpret what a yes to the Union will mean. In this context, I would like to show what the Czech President, Vaclav Klaus, said to the International News Agency, stated in the NRK on 22 April: «As everyone knows, within a few days our state will no longer exist as an independent, sovereign entity.» Several Norwegian lawyers who believe to know this type of EU law are well on track with Klaus in that this will also apply to Norwegian relations in the case of a membership of the Union. There will probably be shared views on this issue even before the Union, I believe. If Norway still stands firm on the point of not seeking inclusion in the Union, and that is very good in the view of the Christian People's Party, then this problem setting is theoretical in nature. Where applicable, the proposal in Document No: 12:14, to change the requirement of plurals to report Norway into the Union from 3/4 plurals to 2/3 plurals, does not support this Christian People's Party and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e664	In a democracy, there should be no ambiguity about basic procedures for decision-making. Consensus on decision-making methods is an important core of democracy. It is especially for Norway that the elements of direct democracy, i.e. referenda, on the representative board are not regulated by the Constitution. The constitutional amendments we are discussing now have direct relevance to the European Union. It is in everyone's interest to clarify the rules for any future EU fight in good time. It is our responsibility as a magnificence to ensure the legitimacy of a future decision. This can only be done by ensuring the necessary adjustments to the Constitution. It would be unsustainable to end up in a situation where large parts of the people ask questions about the legitimacy of a decision of such importance as membership of the European Union. That is why it was so important to ensure a qualified majority for the constitutional amendments promoted by Anne Enger Lahnstein and John Dale. The proposal simply involves establishing the practice of referenda on the EU that has already existed for several rounds, namely that an advisory referendum must be held. I am amazed that there is not a sufficient majority in this Chamber to confirm this once and for all. The proposal would establish that the sole competence to decide the waiver of sovereignty is attached to the Storting, and there is a majority in this Chamber in order to actually use this procedure. In fact, only a few months have passed since this House rejected the proposals of the Progress Party to make referendums binding. Proposal No. 14 of Document No However, 12 for 1999-2000 by Erna Solberg is only supported by the members of the Right. It is gratifying that such a large majority reject the proposal, which will most greatly break with the spirit of the Constitution. Professor Eivind Smith referred to the proposal this way when it was promoted last time: ‘Such a change would be manifestly contrary to the Constitution’. Solberg's proposal is to lower the majority requirement from 3/4 to 2/3 when sovereignty is to be disposed of to international associations. I record that the proposer of the Nations on 11 May claims that this will ‘change the Constitution back as it once was’. This is with respect to not reporting correctly. The proposal would make it easier to use § 93 than § 112, because by § 93 the requirement of waiting time, i.e. a proposal must be above a roll-call vote before it can be finally adopted. Professor Eivind Smith justifies the waiting order as follows: ‘This system is based on the idea that voters, when voting, shall have the opportunity to emphasise their own views on the proposals put forward. [[and candidate]] At this point, the system of constitutional changes is therefore fundamentally democratic.» The 3/4 requirement of the Basic Law § 93 is a compensation for the loss of the waiting time contained in § 112. This simple but important fact clearly ignores the proposer. Perhaps the most eye-catching thing about Solberg’s proposals is that she wants to introduce a special registration clause in the EU. In practice, this specific paragraph will make it much easier to notify Norway into the EU than in any other supranational association. For example, it will. be easier to register in the EU than to register in the EEA. This would be absurd given how far the European Union has gone in the federalist direction. Solberg's proposal simply omits today's wording that the waiver of sovereignty must take place in a limited area. The extent of current EU cooperation can hardly be said to be factually limited. The central party sees the proposal as legal tactic, which would weaken the legitimacy of a decision among the people most. The proposal also removes the requirement that membership should not be allowed to change the Constitution. It is the central party's clear belief that EU membership will go against the Constitution on a number of points. Such a specific paragraph makes it possible to ignore the fact that these extensive changes in the Norwegian system of governance will take place, and we will be left with a Norwegian constitution that does not reflect reality, for example. The powers of the Grand Duchy, the Government or the Supreme Court with regard to the Norwegian monetary policy authority or foreign policy authority. Any modern constitution known to us respects the principle of minority rights. This is a core of a well-functioning democracy. I must say that I am amazed at the inconsistent conduct of the Right on this point. I've just seen the soul right as a party that is a member of constitutionalism and minority guarantees. But it is alarming that the Right is alone in supporting this proposal, which is so obviously going to break with the spirit of the Constitution. The zeal for EU membership is clearly overshadowing everything else. It is a good thing that the proposal falls. The alternative I would fear is to throw the Storing out into a major legitimacy crisis with constitutional settlement long after the Storing has made a future decision on an EU membership, which we hope for a long time will not come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e697	In the Coastal Party we record that the proposals of Anne Enger Lahnstein and John Dale are being adopted. We also record that consultative referenda becomes part of the Constitution in the context of a waiver of sovereignty to the European Union. You don't have to change the Constitution in time and out of time. A referendum provides opportunities for a wide-ranging debate in the people of the individual agreement with the EU and is thus a step in a democratic direction. It is also good to say that the referendums are advisory. Such a scheme further helps to ensure that a referendum result can be assessed by the Stortinget. We are also pleased that Mrs Solberg's proposal has only Right-wing votes. It shows that the Right is isolated in the question of weakening the Basic Law’s protection against sovereignty repudiation. I am amazed at the Right's way of caring for minority interests on this issue. But it's going to be up to them. Many suggest that EU countries are able to agree to adopt a constitution for the EU. This Constitution will then be the national constitutions of the Member States. It will therefore be necessary to make substantial changes to the Norwegian Constitution if Norway is to become a member of the EU. It has been established by prominent lawyers. The Coastal Party looks at Norwegian membership of the EU as completely out of date. We therefore want to keep the Constitution as it is, and rather work systematically to regain the sovereignty that we have already given to the EU. We must remember that sovereignty is a prerequisite for the Norwegian population to secure the economic benefits of its work and of its natural resources. We are a major force in terms of natural resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e710	Me and the Right have respect for the fact that the Center Party is concerned with the spirit of the Constitution. So the original spirit of the Constitution was a principle of power distribution that all lawyers said it would be a violation of when parliamentarianism was introduced. So I'm going to assume that when a lawyer like Smith pronounces himself, he has the corresponding legal principles in place. But it's not that the Basic Law's spirit clearly says whether there should be 3/4 majority or 2/3 majority to change the Constitution. What it says with the original 2/3 majority is that it is actually in the spirit of the Constitution, but we changed it in the context of the European Union issue in its time. So the closer design of minority protection isn't statically determined at all times. The only basic law is clear, it's supposed to be a minority protection, and it takes up Erna Solberg's proposal. In the case of constitutional conservatism, it was traditionally established at a time when Norway and the Nordics were most afraid that King Carl Johan would come and take us. The majority developed a practice that would not change a component of the Constitution. We have then developed this doctrine so that it is not possible to change a comma or a dot, and among other things. because of this, the Basic Law has had a lot of linguistic errors. It's a constitutional conservatism that some people might say would require a total constitutional audit, but that's another question. I think it's the most special thing to the extent that the Central Party has taken on the constitutional conservative approach of the 1800s, also with regard to the question of the legitimacy of a referendum. That's why you have to have it in the Constitution. That's why it's a big point to get it into the Constitution. Then I have to say that the question of the legitimacy of a referendum applies to the extent to which you follow the majority in a referendum or not. So I think that's an upconstructed argument. Then there's this huge astonishment that the Right might be dealing with a minority in a special way. I think there's good reason to be amazed at how some people will treat a large majority. It's suitable for astonishment. With regard to the proposal to extend access to referendums, the Stortinget today takes a number of decisions following previous consultations within both the EEA Committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. I respect the need to use referendums in the EU issue. We think that is necessary. A practice has been established for that purpose. But as I see it, there is very much doubt about the expanded use of referendums in principle all questions and matters relating to a sovereignty decision will contribute to great democratic participation. The European Union issue as such is today very suitable for a referendum, but I am very much in doubt whether quite a few of the individual treaties that we are adopting here in the Grand Duchy are particularly suitable for referendums, which is a proposal for an extended use of the referendum, which is available here, could be added. I think that will actually lead to great fatigue among the people most in terms of referendum, and will probably be a significant weakening of the referendum institute as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e732	Spirit’ is not one of the most precise terms in the language. Constitutional debates tend to introduce the spirit of the Constitution in the absence of a letter, i.e. in the absence of any specific reference to justifying the point of view expressed. It is true, as the representative Dahl just pointed out, that the basic structures of the Constitution of 1814 have changed over time. The most important change is the one that happened in the 1880s when parliamentaryism was introduced, but no one was going to write it into the Constitution. Some still miss it and use it as an argument for the desire for a total revision or rewriting of the entire Constitution in connection with the 200th anniversary. My opinion is that this is to deny what has somehow evolved as the historical logic of our Norwegian democracy. We have lived well with parliamentaryism as a state for 120 years, without anyone having found it necessary to enter it into the Constitution. As regards proposal No: 13, for which a majority in the committee is in favour, we do not have such a long tradition, but at least we have a more than 30-year tradition which is quite unambiguous and which suggests that political reality is that any proposal for membership of the European Union will be submitted to a referendum, whether or not it is written into the Constitution. In this sense, the adoption of this proposal will not change a deterrent in what is the political tradition in Norway. Nor is it easy to see that there will be any question of understanding the relationship between the Constitutional system, which is a purely representative system, and which does not know referendums at all, on the one hand, and what happens to political processes at the moment a majority in the Grand Duchy decides to ask the people to be advised, on the other. Here, too, we have a tradition. It is not just so-called "principal" issues that have been submitted to an advisory referendum in the course of time. In the 1920s, two referendums on spirits were held at intervals of a few years. You could think a lot about booze, but some kind of problem is probably not. There is no doubt whatsoever about our tradition and the letter of the Constitution that the Storting is free, if it wishes, to ask the people to be advised by a direct vote. But no one has yet found it necessary for this to be codified in the form of Constitutional Law, or for the Storting to impose on future magnification how to proceed in the process of adopting an advisory referendum. I listened with interest to Red's posts. He paid very much attention to the fact that the position of the Advance Party in this matter is basically justified. But all his reasoning meant, as far as I could hear, that this is a binding referendum and not an advisory referendum. That is a fundamental question, because at the moment when you want to legislate binding referendums, you have changed – I had almost said – both the spirit and the letter of the Constitution, because then you have taken a long step towards dismantling the representative system and the thinking that the people exercise their sovereignty through their elected representatives. It would be a really dramatic principle step. But that there should be something in principle in voting for the present proposal to amend Section 93 in the case of referenda, I have serious problems with understanding. The most important argument on my part against voting in favour of proposal No. 13 is that it runs into open doors in relation to what is established political practice, and it's presumptuous to create a clarity that it actually doesn't create. For still, if proposal No is adopted. 13, you will be faced with an open situation if the Stortinget invites you to an advisory referendum, it is before an application for membership or after negotiations have taken place. Still, the Constitution will not say a single word about how the Stortinget will deal with the outcome of the advice it has asked the people for. With regard to this last question, there is certainly reason to stress that it is not possible to solve through legal provisions at all, because it is simply a moral issue, namely a question of true communication. It is so in the everyday sense of interpersonal relations that if you ask for advice, it is because you are interested in getting it and could follow it. If a national parliament decides that it is not able to make a reasoned decision on its own without having heard the advice of the people, it implies that at the same time a kind of contract is signed with the voters, namely that one will follow the advice requested. If you want to doubt the principle of the individual representative, possibly the individual party – the last is certainly not in accordance with the spirit of the Basic Law – the right to make your own decision sovereignly across the council of the people, it is deeply illogical to use the Constitution to oblige the Stortinget to seek the advice of the people. It's simply a point of view that logically is impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e753	The centre party is very pleased that Erna Solberg's proposal to change the majority requirement of the Basic Law § 93 falls from 3/4 to 2/3. So the right is sovereign in that case alone. It's obviously right very unwilling to go inward. The right takes the opportunity to discuss the handling of an advisory referendum instead. To that matter let me say the following: it is strange that those who believe that it is a political, moral obligation to follow the people's advice in a referendum, do not vote for binding referenda. It's actually not long since that question was up in this room, and the Right voted against. So there is nothing in the representative who now argued that he could not vote in favour of a binding referendum. This is a total inconsistency from the right-hand side. In the case of the EU case, a game shall comply with completely different rules than one shall in the case of other types of cases. It is tempting to ask a question back to the Right. It is important to consider that Norway would be in a good position if Norway were notified into the EU with a referendum result of 50 pst. plus one voice. I am very uncertain whether this would be a good situation for the country in the long term, but that is what is the consequence of the line on the right in the EU case. In all other matters, therefore, you should not be obliged by a referendum. Finally, let me just say that when the Central Party wants an advisory referendum on the European Union, we shall have to listen to the Council. We're supposed to. But we reserve the right to weigh different considerations against each other even after a referendum. For example, it will. for us, it is important whether the votes are geographically evenly distributed in the country, or whether it is only the central east that wants to report Norway into the EU, while the country otherwise does not want to do so. But anyway, it's to the seventh and last so that it's just the Storing that can give sovereignty. So it can't be left to anyone else. It is our duty as the biggest representative of the seventh and last to decide whether we should say yes or no to notify Norway into the EU in this case. And I just have to say for myself that it would be a very special situation if I, as a staging representative, were to be forced to sit in this room and press the yes button under a vote on Norwegian EU membership, when, after all, it is not one person who has voted in favour of the Stortinget to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e771	It's interesting that the leader of the Center Party is so concerned that a party is on its own. It must be because she has a wealth of experience from this room. I guess there's no party standing alone with such a great joy, just like the Center Party. But at the same time it's a reminder that our discussion about the spirit of the Constitution is a rather complicated discussion. The Constitution knows neither by its letter nor by its spirit political parties. And at least it doesn't know the practice that political parties, through group decisions, bind their representatives to vote in a certain way. Of course, Åslaug Haga is right in saying that no one can force a staging representative to anything. Anyone who has been elected to this assembly is free to vote in any case as he feels the duty of conscience. This means, of course, that theoretically it is also fully possible to vote in order for the Storting to ask the people for a concrete advice in yes/no form on a very concrete issue such as EU membership and then, through their vote, demonstrate that they do not listen to the advice given by the people. No one can prevent any representative from doing so. Nor can anyone prevent a party from doing so collectively, even if it would be alarming if an entire party group were to march in such a case. Another thing is that the practices that have developed include: After the introduction of parliamentaryism and after the political parties have gained a greater and greater emphasis throughout the exercise of democracy, a clear political tradition has been created which is very much to be broken, simply because breaking this political tradition would be suitable for creating confusion, and it would make the relationship between voters and elected representatives more transparent and more difficult for people to understand. There is good reason to recall that, in relation to all the proposals we are now debating, the Norwegian constitution – like most other countries’ constitutions – has embedded security mechanisms, whether two-thirds or three-quarters of a qualified majority, or other percentages, is that one wants to prevent the possibility that might otherwise occur: that the elected assembly should be in conflict with the majority of voters. The intention of such security mechanisms was never – and not the security mechanism introduced in the 1960s – that there should be a general requirement that there should be a population of that magnitude in order for a decision to be legitimate. It would be contrary to the very principle of popular sovereignty if a minority, it would be 25 pst. or another percentage, would be able to overrun or block the will. It's never been meant to be like that. What is the fundamental constitutional problem in our Norwegian legal state today is that we have introduced a tradition of advisory referendum in the EU case that is not adapted to the structure and pattern of the Constitution. It makes it possible to legislate with reasons, as needed in the political debate, and that's what Åslaug Haga just did: vipers with the reasons because it fits the conclusion you want to reach. Back to what is the subject of debate, namely proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox Is there any reason why we're going to enter into the Constitution that the Storting is going to, i.e. must, must fit a referendum into the process? My answer to that is clearly no, because it is not a person who knows today's Norwegian political practice, who is in doubt that it will be necessary to do so when that time comes. And then it's really abuse of the Constitution to write it in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e786	The representative of Inge Wohnning knows very well that § 93 of the Constitution can also be applied in cases other than the EU question. In other contexts, too, one can easily imagine that sovereignty is being given, and that in those kinds of questions people's advice is being sought, I consider reasonable. I had expected something more of an answer from the representative, Inge Wohnung, to the question of why big business representatives should be bound by an advisory referendum in the EU case and not in other cases. It is obvious that you would listen to the people's advice after a referendum. However, the question is why the Right distinguishes between the EU case and other types of cases. Why is it more of a moral-political obligation to automatically follow the people's advice on EU cases than on other matters? I expected that the representative's salary to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e793	No wage has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e796	The answer should have been given, but let me repeat it: the right has exactly the same view of the use of a referendum regardless of the context and the matter. We have the view that it is the Storting itself that must at all times consider whether it is ‘reasonable’, as Åslaug Haga says, to present a case for an advisory referendum. Therefore, we find it pointless to enter into the Constitution that the Storting should do this in specific cases. No representative is bound by the outcome of an advisory referendum. It's really that simple: it's just a question of whether or not each representative is in the possession of a gait view. And if you're not, you're not helping out with a constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e806	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2990]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e821	The proposals in document No. 12:20 and Document No 12:21 from Carl I. Hagen in context, these may invite to debate on the use of the rule of action, on the total financial capacity of the State to secure future pensions and how payments to pensions should be financed. I'll let that lie. The proposals of the representative Carl I. Hagen are identical to those of the Constitution that were discussed in the previous period. The Workers' Party, SV, Right and Christian People's Party have the position that it is not appropriate to regulate the designation of funds for special purposes in the Constitution, and it will not support a proposal that involves a formal link between the State Petroleum Fund and/or the Swedish Social Security Fund and the pension payments of the people's pension fund. The Supreme Court has on two occasions confirmed that social security rights have constitutional protection under Section 97 of the Constitution, but no objective limits have been made on how far this applies. For example, it will be possible to adjust social security benefits, change the basic amount, etc. without being able to oppose this by virtue of the Constitution. Significant efforts will be required to provide a basis for making relevant demarcations. The majority also believe that the question that is being asked here to decide, if you want to use the earmarked funds scheme in relation to the Constitution, is of a principle nature. The majority believe that a commitment of funds and governance in relation to individual cases under the Constitution is not appropriate and that it is fundamentally unfortunate to link concrete leads to, for example: the return of the oil fund and the Swedish Social Security Fund against the Constitution. In the view of the majority, hedges of pension liabilities should be regulated in a completely different way. The decision of the Pension Commission addresses important aspects of the question of future financing of social security benefits and pensions. The financing of pensions should therefore be dealt with in this context and not in the context of a draft constitution. According to the suspension, the question of converting the oil fund into a pension fund appears to be broadly acceptable. In any case, it would be right to take a general discussion about our future post-employment benefit obligations and their financing when the Government's announcement of the Pension Commission's suspension is addressed in the Stortinget. Therefore, the majority concludes that the proposal for a new § 110d of the Basic Law is not accepted. So the majority's vote has its background in this, but the main reason is that you don't want to regulate the designation of funds for special purposes in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e838	It has been said that the greatest enemy of a politician is his own previous statements. Most of us have probably been hurt by saying that things that should have been unsaid or said in another way. However, it is quite rare for us to be shown the expression ‘to meet ourselves in the door’ as clearly as in this case. On the one hand, today, 7 June 2004, we are receiving a draft constitution from the representative Carl I. Hagen in which he proposes in writing a constitutional ban on the withdrawal of funds from the Swedish Social Security Fund and the Petroleum Fund for purposes other than pension payments. Furthermore, it is proposed that both the return on the resources of the oil fund and the funds themselves be earmarked for the pension payments of the population. Five days ago, in spontaneous Question Time on 2 June, the same Hagen held an idea of the importance of using three to four billion of the funds of the oil fund to reduce the fuel tax. Then it's not just about meeting yourself in the door, but getting the swing door right in the flint. At the same time, we know that there is hardly any party or individual representative here in the Chamber who, at every budgetary procedure, is so keen on providing the funds of the oil fund as the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen. Yes, in fact, the entire economic policy of the Progress Party, made visible by its alternative state budgets over the years, is based on significant cuts in the resources of the oil fund and the yield from the oil fund. This matter could be invited to many debates, as the rapporteur also explained, in relation to the pension system, etc. This gives Stortinget ample opportunity to come back to it on a more appropriate occasion. But there is a signal in the attitude about something, that transforming the Swedish Social Security Fund and the Petroleum Fund into a pension fund is an exciting and good idea for which we have a significant sense from the Right. This is also an important issue in connection with the treatment of the Pension Commission's suspension. Furthermore, a very important theme of the suspension of the Pension Commission is the provisions of the Constitution on retroactive effect and the fundamental rights to be conferred by the Constitution. There is a very broad space in the Pension Commission's position. In this respect, we are fully convinced from our point of view that we can deal with the position of the Pension Commission when it is to be dealt with, but that this can and should be done completely independently of any provisions of the Constitution. I would therefore recommend that the Right-wing Representatives vote against Constitutional Amendment No. 12:20.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e849	I am reasonably satisfied that the idea of making the oil fund and, where appropriate, the Folketing Fund into real funds for pension obligations is gaining more and more acceptance. We've been talking about it in the Progress Party for a long, long time. We were told for years that our popular security system was based on “pay as you go”, in other words, that it was the current tax and tax revenues that were to be determined so that you could afford to pay the expenses, and that a fund was therefore completely unnecessary. It was the State's tax collection role that would guarantee the obligations of the people's rights. I also remember a debate with Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland and myself during the opening of the 1989 election campaign, where I was able to demonstrate that when commitments and tax and revenue appropriations were made, the promises of the Workers' Party on pensions in 2030 – often with long-term obligations – were to be lacking 100 billion a year in their budgets to cover it. It was at the time defecated, but later the Workers' Party has also begun to think a little differently, and they see that it may be reasonable to think a little long-term. The proposal to legislate that the return and withdrawal of the Swedish Social Security Fund should only go to pensions, we stand firm. That means, of course, that at the moment you took money from the fund or the return to pay the pensions, you would release exactly the same amount on the ordinary state budget. Of course, that money would then be available for other purposes. Martin Engeset has not quite understood this, but you will be forgiven, for Jens Stoltenberg has not understood this either; he has said that we are trying to spend oil money twice. It is clear that at the moment that money comes from the oil fund to current pensions, the ordinary resources that are now going to cover the current state budget pensions will be there in the form of a surplus available for other circumstances. What is our main point, however, is to secure precisely pension payments better than other public expenditure. These are individual, acquired rights. I would also like to make it clear to Martin Engeset that it might be an advantage to read not only comments, but also the technical summary of the settings. I want to refer to page 1, second column, a little bit down in the first section, where it says: ‘The draft Constitution requires that the State Petroleum Fund Act be designed in such a way that all ordinary revenues such as taxes and charges initially fall to the State Treasury unless they are earmarked by the Act for special purposes and that concrete decisions are taken on the transfer of funds to the Petroleum Fund or the Swedish Social Fund. Once such decisions have been taken and transfers have been completed, the funds will be locked in accordance with the draft constitution.’ It therefore requires another law on the State Petroleum Fund which will make it fully possible for the annual tax receipts and revenues from the sale of the State budget to be included in the State budget. If they had entered the state budget as mentioned here, in 2004, we would have a surplus in the state budget of NOK 130 billion in total. Funding a poor gas tax relief of NOK 3 billion of a profit of 130 billion is not the big problem. When Martin Engeset made such a big number that it is only a week since we took up this idea – the proposal comes into the revised national budget – it would at least be quite possible, as I relate to the Constitution as it always sounds, and not to possible future changes. But anyway, if our proposal had been adopted today, it would have been entirely possible to adopt a reduction in the fuel tax, so that the Norwegian people did not get a higher gas price as a result of the Norwegian State dumping an extra NOK 30 billion in oil revenues if the oil price lasts a year. So thanks to the fact that the state gets NOK 30 billion more in unexpected new revenues, the majority of Norwegian drivers have to pay a higher petrol price and have no advantage at all. We do not really think that is right for the people. A small part of the large revenue should have been used to keep the fuel tax as the government thought it would be when it created its budget. On this basis, I take up the proposal in the vote. There has been an ‘Alternative 1’ fall out by an incurrency. The proposal of the Progress Party shall then be replaced by the following: ‘Document No. 12:20 [[1999-2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e870	Then the representative has taken up the proposal of the Progress Party, with the correction he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e873	This proposal by Carl I. Hagen is not a good proposal, for many reasons, and I'm going to come in on some of those reasons. I understand why the representative Hagen is worried. If you take this proposal as seriously as it is actually made, the starting point is that he fears that there will be no money to pay future pensions, and that it can be ensured through a constitutional proposal. It can't. The sums currently available on the Petroleum Fund and the Swedish Social Security Fund together are not in the vicinity of being able to finance any of the responsibilities of the Social Security Fund. If the fund had been ten to twenty times larger, it would not yet have been large enough to secure the responsibilities of popular security. There is no country in the world – perhaps with the exception of Saudi Arabia, because they have very special rights for their own citizens – that has enough money on book to ensure citizens' pension and social security rights through these kinds of proposals. That means that there is no realism in this proposal. And as stated in the comment of the Advance Party: ‘Citizens must be assured that they have acquired social security rights.’ The only way they can be secured is through budgetary decisions, because one might say that ‘pay as you go’ is not a good principle, but it is actually the principle that you have to have, because there are no other means to pay for the large social protection rights that the State has assumed. That means that this proposal had no meaning in the real world, had not contributed to anything to secure social security and pensioners who had to be insecure as to whether there was money for pensions. The best way to secure money for future pensions is to ensure that people have a job to do, that they work and pay taxes, so that the government has income. In this way, a little allocation policy can be pursued. This means that this proposal is not realistic and therefore should not be adopted. But if you go on the actual content, I also think it is unwise to make sure that some of the government's revenues are earmarked for special purposes through constitutional changes. The size must be free to do what the Storting believes is right, even if you believe from my point of view – and for that matter the representative Hagen’s point of view – that the decision is wrong. We must accept that in a democratic society it is and must stand the citizens free to vote in favour of parties that have a different view than one itself. Social security rights are guaranteed only by decisions in this room, and there is enough money in society to pay them. The introduction of funds as a principle under the Constitution, I think, is unwise. I think it's unwise for a lot of reasons, because there's a lot of important purposes in our society I should have liked to have seen was secure. In fact, I believe that very many legitimate purposes for which the State is paying today should be ensured. Pension and social security rights are one of these. There are a lot of other things that I think it's quite obvious that the Storting and society have overall responsibility for. I believe that this cannot be ensured by the provisions of the Constitution, but that it must be done through decisions in this Chamber, and of course also through different approaches to politics, because it is not possible to depoliticise policies as this proposal is really about. If you look at the Pension Commission's attitude, there's no doubt that some people will go to work dramatically by cutting people's pensions and rights. This proposal would not have changed it. Of course, the Storting must be quite free both to set up commissions and to make decisions. That means there's no automatic in this. But this is part of the nature of politics, namely that there are some politicians who think that cuts in pensions are okay, such as the Right. members of the Pension Commission, and other politicians who believe that this is not the case. This is part of the political agenda and cannot be depoliticised by promoting proposals linked to the Constitution. Let me take the last point as well, because I don't think this is any big central point. I notice that the right in this room, and also other representatives in the past, have polemized against Carl I. Hagen because he spends the money many times. This is probably a good argument if you talk about a TV debate, but I think with all due respect to notify you that this proposal will be dealt with in this way. I believe that this is a bad proposal, for many reasons. But it's quite obvious right, as Hagen says, if you thought that you earmarked this money, there would be some money that was released. But what this would have led to was that there would be a race in terms of pension and social security rights, because that would not be enough money to pay, unless you used the state fund as a buffer. The Treasury is today the buffer and the guarantor that there is money for pensions. If all this money was locked inside a fund, we would not be close to being able to pay the obligations that lie there. That is why, in my opinion, the way that Engeset in this debate is attacking the proposal is completely wrong. There Hagen has a small point, but that's a very small point. The proposal should simply be rejected because it is not the way to guarantee neither pension rights nor anything else. The Constitution cannot be used for this purpose. This is part of a political struggle or debate, and as such I think it makes sense that different parties go to different approaches to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e897	This proposal, as I read it, will mean that the Storting for the future disclaims the possibility of the usual rewards from the fund returns and the fund capital of the oil fund. Or should we call that the pension fund? I quote from the proposal: ‘... both the return on the funds and the funds themselves shall be earmarked for the pension payments of the people’s pension funds.’ The idea of deciding to take such a position is not removed, but a broad multiplicity must be created if such a decision is to be durable. Personally, I actually see the point with that. All indications suggest that pension obligations will be difficult in the future, but such basic legislation will have dramatic consequences for policy in Norway in the future. In concrete terms, we can say that over-exploitation policies include: The progress point with this option will be unloaded. The proposal put forward by the Transport Policy Spokesman in the Progress Party in Dagbladet on 4 June, to spend an extra 75 billion kroner on road construction, will only contain air once the Constitution has been adopted. Here, one must be determined in a way. Would you like to secure your pensions, as we have in front of us, or would you like to continue with all the valuable suggestions, such as what we saw on Friday? One cannot continue to suggest both. Generally speaking, we would like to have a fundamental debate on this issue. At the same time, I ask the Christian People's Party to vote against the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e916	The President will not in any way try to limit or limit debates on the provisions of the Constitution, but the President will state that, in relation to the rest of the Grand Duchy, it would be beneficial if we could finalise the votes on the Constitutional Law provisions before the end of the morning.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e919	I'm going to try to take due account of it by being short, but I felt the need to have a follow-up post after the director Carl I. Hagen's post. When we oppose this proposal, it is primarily because we do not think the proposal is good. But the close history taken into account, I think it was quite relevant to remember what happened in the spontaneous questioning session a few days ago. Now Hagen argued that if you take money out of the fund, it will release money. Yeah, I guess. They're asking you exactly what you're spending this money on. If they're used to relieve the expenses of popular fear, it might be their business. But if you provide the oil fund to bring down the fuel tax to compensate for a crude oil price that's been shot at because of an insecure international situation, it's a real bottling of the fund, and you can't take comfort in relieving other budgets. I also recorded it as interesting that as a defense of his behaviour in the spontaneous questioning session, Hagen said that he is dealing with the Constitution as it always sounds. You could do that with the current constitution. I read in it a confession that it might not have been quite as good if this constitution had been adopted. Then I would also like to remind you that with regard to the treatment we are going to have in relation to the Pension Commission, which is coming at a later stage, there are significant differences between the parties – between the representatives whom the parties have appointed to sit there on their behalf. The model for the Progress Party is that it should be an equal pension for everyone. It shall be approximately at the minimum pension level of the day. If it's not a curtailment of acquired rights for most people, I don't know. It's probably the most dramatic shortening of people's rights. Moreover, this oil fund is not as astronomical as some try to imagine people. After all, it is not close to being able to meet the already accumulated pension obligations contained in the system. The representative, Mr Djupedal, is quite right about that. It's very far ahead before we get there – if we ever get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e932	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2991]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e948	I'll take the recommendation to make this card, but I have to say something. The proposal by the representative Carl I. Hagen is identical to the draft constitution that was examined in the previous period, but the reasons have changed somewhat. The reasons for the proposal are as follows: ‘From time to time, there is a debate on whether acquired rights in the People’s Security System are really to be trusted or whether the Stortinget can change the People’s Security Act so that the value of earned popular credit points is reduced or benefits can be reduced by other means.’ Following a review of the case-law of the Court of Justice, it appears essential that a change to the law is a manifestly unfair or unfair retroactive effect. The financial autonomy of the capital and the need to re-priorities within the social security system are also given priority in the Supreme Court. The Pension Commission discusses issues relating to the protection of acquired rights in Cape. 13.3................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission underlines that it may be a matter of retaining the benefits already granted unchanged and of obtaining the benefits already earned. But all aspects of this are to be debated in an overall way when a new pension system is to be formed. After the majority’s assessment, accrued-to-date social security entitlements are not a unique amount. If a fundamental law on rights in this field is to be endorsed, it is appropriate to clarify the legal requirements to be protected by the Constitution. Such a restriction is not contained in the present proposal by Mr Hagen. The decisive factor in the protection of fundamental law is whether a change in the law is manifestly unfair or has an unfair effect. This assessment will be discretionary and will change over time. The Pension Commission has raised a number of issues in this regard, and it would be natural for the Storting to provide some guidance on the understanding of the protection of rights in this regard. Therefore, the proposal for a new Section 110(e) of the Constitution, on the constitutional protection of accrued-to-date social security rights, recommends that the majority of the Committee do not agree. The question of the nature of protection acquired rights in a reformed and modernised public interest for future changes should be considered in the context of the treatment of the suspension of the Pension Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e970	The clearest way the Storting could possibly give to the Supreme Court about the importance of not being able to make negative changes in acquired pension and social security rights would, of course, be a constitutional provision. When the Supreme Court some years ago dealt with two cases where this was a relevant issue, they made some decisions, and it was clear that the terms ‘unfair’ and ‘unfair’ were given weight. I think a constitutional change would have given the result that Supreme Court would far more strongly not say that if the decrease in the pension you get is not unreasonable, it is accepted. Then I think the Supreme Court would say more: well, because of the Constitutional Decision, there can be no decline in the pension as a result of law decisions by a simple majority in the Grand Duchy. Since the build-up of population protection and the entry of pension laws, decisions have been taken on several occasions by the majority of the population that have had a negative impact on pensions. What we have wanted with this proposal is to try to help make this more difficult to implement in practice, so that security becomes somewhat more secure. It is clear that for the Supreme Court, which finally had to decide on any dispute, such a constitutional provision would be given importance in the case in question. So what we've been trying to do with this proposal with regard to the public pension is to do to a greater extent what you can do with ordinary pension contracts in private insurance companies. If disputes arise, and if, as a pensioner, it is considered that the company does not follow up properly under a police officer, you can actually go to court to get the courts to decide. That is what has been difficult about the government pension scheme. It can be changed unilaterally by the company, which is the Stortinget, the State and the Government, without the protection of the rights of private insurance companies in the courts. We have wanted to try to strengthen the legal rights of pensioners with this proposal. I'm not in doubt that if this had been adopted, it would strengthen the right-wing. The Supreme Court would attach importance to the fundamental law provision in a current case, such as the Supreme Court would have to attach weights and interpretations to all other cases where constitutional provisions are invoked by a party. On this basis, I allow myself to raise the proposal of the Advance Party as it appears in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e983	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2991]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e993	The size is then ready to vote in the case no. 2–5, which are proposals for amendments to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e1001	During the debate, Mr Reikvam put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:1 [[Insertion of Republican State form]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's setting up, and the President proposes that we vote in the usual way, i.e. at the wetting plant. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e1026	In the course of the debate, Mr Dahl, on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party, raised the proposal that proposal No. 13 of Document No 12 for 1999-2000 not accepted. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:13 [[Parliament adopted the resolution]] The proposal for a decision under Roman number I of the vote is that these proposals be accepted, and it is the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party that support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e1039	The President will propose that an alternative vote be taken between the vote and the proposal of the Right and the Christian People's Party, and that a roll-call vote be taken. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The plug starts with representative No. 4 for Hedmark County. The voters will reply yes. Those who vote in favour of the proposal answer no. The President will ask for the representatives to respond loudly and clearly for the purposes of registration, and there should be peace in the Chamber. This is particularly important in this vote, as there is a very narrow margin for what will be the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e1053	Accordingly, the proposal for Decision I of the European Parliament has not received the necessary constitutional majority and has therefore been rejected. The 97 representatives who voted in favour of the vote were: Per Roar Bredvold, Knut Arjøddjab, Hjødjab, Hjødjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjab, Gådjadjab, Gådjadkab, Gådjadkab, Gådjadjadjadjab, Gådjadjadjag, Gådjadjadjadjab, Gådjadjadjadjadjadjad, Gådjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadja, Gj, Gj, Gådjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadja, Gå, Gådjadjadjadja, Gådjadja, Gådjadjadjadjadjadja, Gjad, Gådjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadja, Gjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadja, Gjadjadjadjadja, Gjadjadja, Gjadja, Gja, Gjadja, Kjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadja, Kjadjadjag, Kjadja, Kjadjadja, Kjadjadjadja, Kjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadjadja, Hja, Kja, The 55 representatives who voted in favour of the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party were: Bjørn Hernæs, Åse Wisløff Nilssen, Oddvard Nilsen, Ingegriff S. Sørfonn, Øyvind Halleraker, Anita Apelthun Seele, Torbjørn Hansen, Ingmar Ljones, Erlenden Nornes, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Petter Løvik, Modulf Aukan, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Jan Sahl, Olemic Thommessen, Inge Lønning, Heidi Larssen, Abshan Rafiq, Lars Rise, Ine Marie Eriksen, Hans Gjeisar Kjæstad, Bent Höie, Bjerg Tørsdal, Finn Martin Vallersnes, Olaf kristisk Skåd Gørmark, Inger Lise Aarrestad, Per Steinar Osmundnes, Sverre J. Hodevik, Kari Lise Holmberg, Brother Yngve Rahm, Åger Kongssen, Årge, Arne Knorde The following 13 representatives were absent: Ranveig Frøiland [[forf.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e1068	The vote will take place at the next voting time. In the course of the debate, Mr Dahl, on behalf of the Right, presented a proposal, proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:14 Option 1 — acceptable.’ [[Norwegian accession to the European Union]] Alternatively, this proposal will be voted on and the Committee will be put to the vote, and the President proposes that it be voted on by using the wetting plant. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e1098	During the debate, Mr Hagen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal. The President noted that Mr Hagen had corrected the proposal and clarified that the proposal concerned Option 1. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:20 [[1999 - 2000]] Alternatively, this proposal will be voted on and the Committee will be put to the vote, and the President proposes that it be voted on by using the wetting plant. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e1123	During the debate, Mr Hagen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:21 [[1999 - 2000]] Alternatively, this proposal will be voted on and the Committee will be put to the vote, and the President proposes that it be voted on by using the wetting plant. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07.ana.ud2445e1145	These were the votes to be taken in connection with the constitutional proposals that have been pending today. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
