ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e49	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President proposes Heidi Grande Røys. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e64	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and the Advance Party and 5 minutes to each of the other party groups and the representative Simonsen. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given after the speeches of the main speakers from each of the groups and five replies with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e73	As rapporteur, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good work on the matter. It arrived late in the spring, and treatment and delivery were now added to the harvest to ensure time for thorough work. In my view, it was a wise decision, which has served the matter. I also draw attention to the fact that there has been an error in the setting, which has two references to the Working Environment Act. One reference, in the proposal for a decision to the Act § 4-2 fourth paragraph last sentence, correctly refers to the Working Environment Act § 54D. The second reference, in the last paragraph of Section 6A-4, should also be made. This must be a reference to Section 54D of the Working Environment Act in both places. The case concerns the follow-up of the order from the majority of Storting. In this case, too, the majority and minorities are shown in the view of facilitating the establishment of schools, so that parents and students can choose schools other than public schools. The parties who oppose it present themselves for their views and for their vote in the case. When the Stortinget passed a new law on independent schools as a replacement for the former private school law in June 2003, only the possibility of establishing primary schools was extended. Secondary schools remained on unchanged recognition basis, mainly religious and ethical reasons or as a professional educational alternative. In cooperation between the Progress Party and the Government Parties, the law extension was ordered for secondary schools at the time of the case, so that the law on free schooling applies to the whole of basic education, following a decision today. That is why this is an important matter, and that is why this is an important day. This is probably a step towards ensuring freedom of choice in school provision and equal treatment of schools in public ownership and private-owned schools, both in law, in legislation and in funding. These are important principles of the Party for Progress in School Policy, principles that are pervasive to the Party's education policy, thereby distinguishing the Party's education policy from that of the other Parties. The Party notes, however, that important steps are still to be taken to achieve full freedom of choice and equal treatment between private schools, or what is now to be called independent schools, and schools owned by the public sector, and that is why the Party also has several proposals and comments. The Progress Party will reduce the possibility for host municipalities to object to the establishment of independent secondary schools. The Progress Party wants the right of recognition to apply to Norwegian independent schools abroad, to international independent secondary schools in Norway and to independent secondary schools established for the disabled. The Party considers that independent secondary schools should be able to carry out their own real competence assessment. We do not want municipal monopoly. Stand-alone schools still get only 85 pst. of the operating costs in relation to the corresponding public school. The Progress Party will increase the rate to 100 p.m. and the Progress Party will also include capital expenditure in the subsidy base as of the 2005/2006 school year. The Progress Party will also allow school money to exceed 15 pst. from the grant basis for recognised professional-pedagogical options. The Party considers that an independent school should be able to set up its own departments without the establishment of independent legal entity for each department. The Progress Party also believes that the Governing Board must have greater governing authority. The Progress Party wants the private and public school student census to be based on the same counting system for the calculation of the normal rate. The Party underlines that regulations for independent schools should be clarified in order to ensure a common understanding of schools and supervisory authorities. The Party will supervise all schools, including public-owned schools, but the rules must be clear and respected by the Supervisory Authority. Randomity and vision shall not be eligible for school recognition. The Progress Party and the Government Parties ask the Government to return to the Stortinget with a case that discusses the rights of adults to secondary education. The party concerned is concerned that the different treatment of adults born before and after 1 January 1978 is ineligible for non-discrimination under common rules. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that, together with the Government Parties, we have amended the Ministry's proposal that the Colleges should not be able to accommodate adult applicants without rights. The majority now ensure that schools that have that right will continue to have such a right. In this way, the majority of educational provision for many adult students who are not in public school provision and an offer that today also has public support. In many cases, it is an offer that ensures that adult students return to work and become self-sufficient, that is, a good and socially beneficial solution. The Party of Advance Countries, together with the Government Parties, assumes that there is a non-discrimination between public and independent schools as regards information and admission procedures, inter alia. to enable applicants to obtain a full list of all upper secondary schools. In this setting, there is also unanimous agreement on the extension of its own provision on the activities of the school, i.e. a school such as operates gardening in connection with the teaching of the horticulture, in fact should be allowed to do just that. And that's good. The Committee is also unanimous in securing government grants to higher education institutions for the disabled. Finally, there is important agreement on the following, and I refer to the setting page 12, column 1, fifth paragraph: ‘The Committee asks the Ministry to present its own case to the Stortinget during 2005 with a clarification of the financing system for all approved vocational schools and clarification of the relationship between secondary schools and vocational schools in line with the Committee’s observations on these two aspects.’.» There is, as the committee sees it, reason to go a border-up round. This concerns the field between secondary schools, where legislation and funding systems have been clarified, and specialised schools to be based on completed secondary education, which have clarified legislation but have not clarified funding. There is reason to consider whether not all vocational education and training in addition to secondary education should be enshrined in the Law on Vocational Education and Training. It therefore asks the Committee to do so. Finally, I mention that the entry into force of the law, by the majority of the committee, is set at 1 December 2004. Schools will then have the opportunity to apply for recognition under new law in 2005 so that they can start schooling from the beginning of the school year 2005/2006. It's good school news for students and parents all over the country. In the view of the Progress Party, it is also important to ensure diversity and competition between schools, thereby stimulating important and necessary quality developments in the school sector, to the joy of pupils, parents and society as a whole. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party. The Progress Party will subsidize the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e136	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e141	Today, we have a government that is largely supported by the Progress Party to implement its ideological policy. Not least, we see this very clearly expressed in school policy. This policy eventually leads to an undermining of municipal autonomy, by approving private schools against the wishes of the municipalities, which we are now beginning to see some examples of around in Kommune-Norway. We know that today's private schools get guaranteed income through a state grant. By comparison, we know that the economy of many municipalities is such that the school must fight against other municipal tasks for a budget that does not go to, in order to maintain and develop the standard and quality of school. Then my question is, what is this freedom of choice, which the Advance Party holds so high, worth? Does it not at all worry the Progress Party that this development affects the majority of people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e150	Now I'm not going to answer what's about most people's relationship, but I'm going to answer what's about school policy, and what's about giving students and parents a choice. In fact, there is a significant difference between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in the view of school policy and the emphasis we in the Advance Party on the Workers' Party insist that parents and students can choose. We think it is more important than focusing on local policy issues and how local authorities place a decisive emphasis on how to use school resources. Unfortunately, this is also the case after we were given permission to stand-alone schools, that we have a basis for paying not guaranteed income, but 85 pst. of the income used in public schools for those who choose private schools. The 85 pst. also varies from municipality to municipality, as the local authority in the municipality in question has prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e157	The 2001 Selection Survey shows, among other things: that by the voters of the Advance Party it is almost 30 pst. having only primary education. Let's take those of the leaders of the Advance Party who have primary and secondary school, we're up in almost 90 pst. Between 35 and 40 pst. are defined as low-income voters. If we take low and medium income, it's between 70 and 80 pst. by the voters of the Progress Party who hold it. A good public school was the basis for developing the welfare society that we have, and people from the working class, who now clearly represent the Progress Party, were given the opportunity to receive education. So my question to the representative of the Progress Party is: With a weakening of the public school as this can mean, by establishing private schools in competition with the public education system, the Progress Party feels that this is in the interests of the voters, when we look at who votes in the Progress Party, and what background do they have?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e166	I could try to answer with an in-depth analysis of the SV's selection basis, but I will refrain from that temptation and rather try to answer more of what might be implicitly the question. Again, the difference between the SV and the Progress Party in school policy, among other things. I agree with the matter we are dealing with in this case. The Promotion Party emphasises the choice of parents and students. The party of progress is taking the steps we can take, along with other parties, towards full non-discrimination. We come a little closer to this matter. For the Progress Party, full non-discrimination means that we have free establishment within a national authorisation system. And now we're starting to put that in place. But we're also going to have full economic equality, so it doesn't remain as the Workers' Party and SV actually contribute to, that it's the wallet that's in it and decides whether students who have the opportunity to do it can actually afford to choose a private or a stand-alone school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e173	Today, we have an education system that is such that public education is free of charge. The whole pillar of our welfare community is that education is free from primary school to higher education. There has been the pillar of society, so that those groups who were not previously educated now have the opportunity. We are proud and happy that we have been created in this society. According to the Election Survey, voters voting on the Advance Party represent those who are likely to depend entirely on a free education system. It is those who have the worst income and those who have the lowest education, who vote in the Progress Party, according to the 2001 Election Survey. Then my fundamental and fundamental question to the representative of the Progress Party is this: Is it in the interest of the progressive party voters to establish competition in the education system, which will weaken the public education system?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e180	I am convinced, on behalf of the Progress Party, that our voters also know our programme. I don't think we in the Progress Party have been able to trick voters for 30 years with a school policy they don't really want. I believe, on the other hand, that the voters understand what they get from school policy with the Progress Party, that they will still receive free initial training. I also believe that our voters perceive that it will only partially, at least, get into SV's policy, and they will then get a certain and bastant rejection of the fact that they can choose a different school than a school owned by the public. Because it is true that not only is SV against the law enlargement here today, but they have actually also programmed that the public should take over existing private schools. It's called others coercion and uniformity. So this is SV's school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e186	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e189	Despite a fundamental political disagreement in this matter, I would nevertheless like to thank the case rapporteur for a good deal of work on this matter. We've worked well in the committee, even though the political backbones have been very clear against each other. A new law on independent schools is being passed today, and it regrets the Workers' Party. When we vote against this law today, it is because we believe it is wrong to give private secondary schools the right to recognition and state grants regardless of their purpose for the training. The last time private schools were treated was in the spring of 2003. Then, with the blessing of the Advance Party, the government parties adopted a change of law for independent schools on the ground stage. What the Workers' Party said in this connection should be known. I don't go into all the parts of it, but I think there's a reason to say to the Right-State Council Kristin Clemet that she's doing a good job, just because in this cooperative government it's the Right-School policy that gets full impact. In fact, the Labour Party is happy to congratulate you on that. Today, a law is passed that obviously has two main intentions. One is that it's going to be easier to create more private schools, and the other is that we're going to get a larger amount of private schools in Norway. This will have some consequences for what School Norway will look like in a few years' time. The last time the law on stand-alone schools was treated, government parties spent a lot of time explaining that there were no major changes. At the same time, they thought very clearly that the new law was historic. I don't think we're going to see a boom in private schools in the short term either, but with this law, as with the previous one, we've opened up a gradual change in the Norwegian school system, a gradual segregation that we in the Workers' Party are opposed to, and some municipalities are starting to notice this clearly. Whatever we say in this room, there's something different about the sense of reality out in the municipalities than what we stand here and prizes through the freedom of choice. Through this government, business economic terms have become dominant in the school. The belief that competition between private and public schools will raise the quality to almost an incredible level is as simple as it is completely free from empirical examples. The last time we had this discussion here in the hall, we asked the government parties what had been the driving force behind the commitment to make it easier to set up private schools. The parental right, we got an answer. At the same time, the Workers' Party was attacked, among others. from the right, to show a basic distrust of parents and of public schools. Both parts are completely wrong. That parents should be allowed to choose what kind of school their children go to is one thing, something quite different is the situation and the consequences we get from the law-enforcement decisions the Stortinget has now taken. Because what we see is that this has consequences. It's enough to look at the municipal proposition for this year that the Government has presented. There will be cuts in transfers to municipalities and counties. And we look out in Municipality-Norway that the municipalities are struggling to get a real deal for the majority of our children. We see that public schools are gradually being laid down in this country, while private schools are coming. It may not be the big dramatic changes, but it's a long-term negative trend. I would like to say that the law adopted today will further contribute to this trend. And then we can start looking at numbers. That's how private schools in Norway now get a little over 2 billion kroner. This is actually an increase. They have got new approx. 700 million. During these years, with what is now presented in the State budget, we know what the consequences are — for school leisure schemes, for camp schools, for school books — where municipalities are in a desperate situation to manage the most necessary money. I learned when I started with politics, that politics, is to choose, and at least the government parties, with the blessing of the Advance Party, have done here today, by getting a much stronger market for setting up private schools, by knowing that we have now deliberately undermined the public sector for far too many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e207	The working party is concerned. They are concerned that, in their view, the general public school may be weakened. They are concerned that the objectives of private secondary schools are now being removed. I don't think there's any reason to be concerned about any of this. I am more concerned that the Workers' Party only supports the strange and special schools. Because if I apply for the approval of a private secondary school with a sports line, I will automatically get a rejection with the Workers' Party's position. If, on the other hand, I apply for the approval of a Muslim or Christian secondary school with a sports line, then I will automatically, after the Workers' Party's position, receive approval. Do not at all supplement the working party criteria such as quality, relevance and content any meaning when approving a secondary school? And what's the logic that it's just the weird and special schools that are going to get approval from the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e214	Now it's like the Workers' Party is on the old law. But if the representative Voie now tried to represent it as, that we were only in favour of the strange and special schools, then we would actually not have been on the law that has been in force until now. For the truth is that with the system we've had for up to a certain time back, we could say no to some of the extreme private schools that the Right has just wanted, which we've thought have been discriminatory, and which have a lot of views on children and women that we couldn't have stood up and defended. I believe that the production that Voie has is wrong. As regards the quality and content of our training in general, the representative knows very well that the working party is concerned about quality. We have demonstrated that, among other things. by putting down the Quality Committee, and by bringing in the right of an extension of the hour in our primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e221	The rug here is among other things. that the Labour Party at all has nothing to do with the choice and freedom of choice of pupils and parents. It is therefore more important for the Workers' Party to ensure that those who still choose public schools than to open up to non-discrimination, freedom of choice and choice for those who should be at the centre of school, namely the pupils and the parents. I guess that's also the case, you can ask the representative, Bekkemel Orheim, that she is aware that in relation to public school it's 85 pst. of the government subsidy that the private schools bring with them, and that is what meets those students who still choose a privately run school. I assume that the representative is also aware that, despite that, there is actually a higher proportion of low incomes in the upper secondary school than what we find in public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e228	It is such that it is the consequences of this freedom of choice that concern the Workers' Party. Because even if we were to believe it many times, it's not like our country's overflowing with milk and honey. The situation out in Kommune-Norge is dramatic. We have repeatedly tried to point out that what we adopt in this field, slowly, but certainly has consequences for them more than 98 pst. of the children who attend public school. And then one can easily say that yes, I recognize that the right-hand parties' hearts are beating for the small minority who go to private schools. But we in the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party are in fact upright that we believe that we need to have an offensive investment in our public common school, because what happens on the school side out in Municipality-Norway is dramatic. We get feedback on that every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e235	The representative, Bekkelem Orheim, was very concerned about telling us how strongly the Workers' Party was against the law, and argued that we are now getting a training market. If that means that parents have to choose according to their own belief, and that that is a market, then the Workers' Party also defends such a market when they want the old private school law. I think a democracy is characterized by how a person treats minorities and how a person respects their rights. That's why it becomes absolutely fundamental for the Christian People's Party that parental rights have effect. We want a strong public school, but it's not the colleges that pose the threat to it. My question to the Workers' Party is – and I think we need to have a clear answer to that: If the Workers' Party enters the government offices, will they repeal the Law on Secondary Education? That is an important question, and a political clarification I think we need to get today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e244	One thing is the so-called right to choose on behalf of their children, a right that parents have. Something quite different is how the Norwegian State, through the resources of the community, should act towards this group. With a debate over the last few years in which we have seen from the government budgets that it has slowly, but surely become a twist from public to private schools, there will soon be a new debate on what should be the responsibility of the state towards those who are given the opportunity to establish such a school. It's a discussion that we'd like to take in the time that's coming. It is quite clear that the Workers' Party will follow this development very closely, and carefully listen to what the leaders outside the Municipality-Norway say.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e253	Before leaving the pulpit, would she perhaps like to make some suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e256	Yes, I address the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Then, as an explanation of vote, I would say that we will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e264	The representative of Karita Bekkelem Orheim has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e269	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a well-worked job. The legislative proposals relating to independent secondary schools follow the conversion made in relation to independent primary schools. The basis of approval is changed from purpose considerations to quality considerations. Independent secondary schools shall be able to be recognised independently of the purpose after the changes, e.g.: that school is a religious or educational alternative to public school. Instead, the requirement for approval becomes that the school complies with the required content and quality requirements. For the Right and the other government parties, it is very important to ensure that the Norwegian school is good, whether it is public or independent. Still, there is – and probably will also be in the foreseeable future – a small proportion of students who choose independent schools. Today the share is lower than 2 pst. But the important thing is not if it's 2 pst. or 20 pst. who chooses something else. The most important thing is that those who want alternatives are guaranteed a predictable and qualitatively good offer, just as it is important that the large proportion of those who choose public schools receive a good quality offer. In the case of government parties, it has been important to highlight three aspects in particular during committee proceedings. First of all, there are many things that need to be pursued, not suppressed. Secondly, the diversity must not only be found within policy-specific purposes but also outside these frameworks — as long as the quality of training is good. And third, parents' right to choose education for their children is made real by the fact that there are alternatives to choosing between. There is a much greater diversity in public schools today than it has ever been. Over the last three years, government has pursued a conscious policy to increase freedom in public schools — and thus diversity. However, diversity cannot be limited to the framework that politicians at all times consider to be acceptable. The variety is not created by political decisions, but can get more or less good living conditions through them. It's just this recognition that makes the focus on fresh oils change now. In the past, only schools representing a religious or pedagogical alternative could obtain approval. Now, all schools that meet the training requirements of the public school can get a clear signal to operate, regardless of the alternative they represent. I believe it is important as a politician to accept not just a particular diversity — for example. the diversity I like. The reasons for this are simple: a great diversity is important for the protection of minority rights. For the same reason, it has been important for government parties to continue the principle that approval is transferred from the department to the Education Directorate. Free schools shall be assured that a political majority, if any, who do not want health schools other than religious and pedagogical alternatives, may not grant recognition based on political and not purely professional motives. One of the main objectives of opening up increased diversity is that it is accessible to all. This means that for high school too, there is a limitation on self-payment. Schools get 85 pst. State grants and may not take a higher own-payment than up to 15 pst. of the grant basis laid down by the Storting. Statistics from the Central Bureau suggest that there are small differences in the income of parents who have children in independent schools and public schools. Even more so, early school parents have slightly lower incomes, but they are spending more heavily on higher education than parents with children in public schools. When debating independent secondary schools in Norway, it may be useful to look at developments in Sweden. The last big summary made by the Swedish schoolwork, published in the Nordic Administrative Journal, no. 2/2004 is particularly clear on one point: there is no doubt that freedom of choice has contributed to educational renewal and to the development of professional and pedagogical profiles. Freedom of choice has stimulated the entire Swedish school system. The summary also shows that parental involvement and influence are positively influenced by the possibility of choosing an alternative school. The same thing makes the teachers' commitment. Democracy in school is increasing as a result of more responsive education authorities. In Sweden, the trend is clearly towards parents choosing schools, not away from schools. School students write that the choice of school is governed less by dissatisfaction and more by expectations. I believe that the changes in the law we are making today will help to create a better school for all students in Norway, not just for those who choose anything other than the public school. All schools are stimulated by increased focus on quality, and quality is at the heart of a good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e314	We heard here in Eriksen's post that she used the word democracy. In this case, the Ministry and also the Right makes it a point that today's amendment of law contributes to Norwegian school becoming in line with the internationally binding agreements of which Norway is bound, and likewise in the Right, it is said that today's amendment of the law is a democratization of Norwegian school. That's interesting! Can the representative Ine Marie Eriksen give concrete examples of areas where Norwegian school before the release of the boarding schools has been contrary to our international commitments? And is it such that our former school system was directly undemocratic? The establishment of private schools is nothing new. We've had that for many, many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e321	As I also explained in my article, an important aspect of democracy in a school is in fact that parents actively engage and that they have an opportunity to do so. The survey in Sweden has clearly shown that the more diversity you have, the greater the participation and democracy, and education authorities are more responsive to the demands and requests of parents than they are. But the question of conventions and democratisation is also a question of just letting diversity work in a politically defined area, or actually making freedom of choice and opportunity real for all, even for those who want to choose something other than what politicians have set as a good alternative, namely educational and religious alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e328	The Education Act and the Private School Act have different definitions of the term ‘advance training’. It has also developed a practice in which a private school law provides support for students who are not entitled to secondary education. For example, they have completed secondary education — got their right — and then they are allowed to go on to a private school, they get to try again. We can join in and discuss it and say that it is important that people should have a new chance. But the basic question here is, should it be a public task, before we've clarified the principle, to finance private schools that take students in without right? Governments have made a good effort to clean up here. That's what she's supposed to be for. She has actually tried to clean up these terms and get a clarification. Here, the Right of the Storting has tried the state council and said that the clean-up attempt by the state council was a bad attempt. Does the Right here on the Storting feel comfortable crossing the Council of State in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e335	I can confirm that neither the Right Magnification Group, the Government Parties nor the State Council have experienced an overrun that has had consequences for our relationship. For government parties, it has been important to continue some of the education that exists and that has a very large proportion of adult students without rights. This applies, inter alia, to: horticultural training and a number of small and protective subjects. We don't think it was right at this stage to tear the legs of these educations and make sure that they are put down with immediate effect. But, of course, we have also said in the vote that we are awaiting the review that the department is currently conducting, for example. the problem of adults with and without legal status, of the limit for adults born after 1978.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e342	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e345	Over the last year, we have been more clearly exposed to where the policy dividers go in education policy. The chronicle in VG today also helps to highlight where the dividing lines go. Over the last few years, we've been given a new private school law, which has changed the name of the law, which makes it free to set up private schools. Of course, they should be within the framework set by politicians, within the framework of the regulatory framework, so that political governance remains, after all. Several private schools are justified by increased competition and increased competition should create better quality. We have addressed the big message ‘Culture for learning’, and there we also see that the dividing lines have become clearer. It goes on the knowledge vision, where we go from a broad knowledge view of today's curricula, with more emphasis on skills and traditional academic knowledge. We also look at the kind of development that has taken place in terms of quality. Five years ago we had a big message, St.meld. No 28 for 1998-1999, presented by Jon Lilletun, focusing on quality and quality work. With the big message 'Culture for Learning' we see a development where instead of thinking about the quality of the individual school, creating structures, rather than organizing, moving with the user, etc., we turn our heads around and say that quality is now to be done through control, and that a new control regime is to be established through tests, etc. All of this shows where the policy divisions go in education policy. We note that there is a majority here in Stortinget to amend the Private School Act. It is the Progress Party, which supports the government parties, which means that we are implementing a new private school law, a new law on free movement. However, I had hoped that the government parties had gone into and discussed some of the fundamental questions. First of all, one in the Education Act and the School Act should define the secondary school in the same way. We should be able to do that. In the Education Act, we have a clear and unambiguous definition of what secondary education is. In the Free School Act, we have a significantly wider definition that means that the public spends relatively many hundred million dollars on financing secondary school services as per. would not have been approved today within the public education system. So this one goes a lot further in defining what a high school is. The least we could do — and the least I could expect — was that we could at least define high school in the same way in the Education Act and in the Law when we're going to make a law for high school. I had also hoped that we could have managed to define – we agree – what goes on students with and without the right. We can discuss how many chances students will get, but within the public education system, we've defined students with the right, and they're the ones who get state funding. They are the ones involved in the framework transfers to municipalities, and that is how the state finances secondary education. But in the case of private schools, the state also finances what applies to students without being directly involved in private schools. Not enough of the state financing it, it is actually the county municipalities that finance it themselves, because the county municipalities are being drawn into the state grant. The county councils are drawn into the state grant for students who are not entitled, and this money is transferred to private schools. And as I also said in the line to Ine Marie Eriksen, the Council of State tried to clean up. The council made a heroic – I'll almost call it – attempt to clean this up, so that at least we got a unified system. It has lowered the majority, the government parties together with the Progress Party, so that today's system is maintained. This means that the county councils are drawn for students who attend private schools. One does not distinguish between students with and without justice. Everything is being pulled in, and then it's being distributed. So it's the county that pays for the valid. And not enough with that: the county must pay it out of funds that they have not received from the state, precisely because this has not been included in the framework grant. There are such things I had hoped that we would have done well to clean up, but that the government parties at all are not interested in trying to clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e371	There was a lot in the representative's posts that it could be interesting to elaborate, and much of what he didn't say had also been interesting, but it was said in the setting. I'd like to focus a little bit on this with students without right. Does not the representative of Reikvam see it as important that the education that is now largely available to students without the right of their students to continue to exist? We know that when, for example, for the training of gardeners, it is 75 pst. Of the gardens that are trained in private schools, of which almost 70 are pst. non-rightful adult students. Should we have carried on as – as we can interpret it – the proposition, namely that independent schools should not be able to pick up adult students without justice, it would mean death for the schools. It may not be so important, but it would be the death of the education that leads to that we have competent gardeners in Norway. And so do a number of small and protective subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e379	I could have done this very easily and just sent the question to the Council of State, because the Council of State suggests exactly the same thing as SV suggests; that we should clean up this relationship. It's kind of interesting that Jan Olav Olsen asks me, when he could really have asked his own government council if the state council thinks that this would mean the destruction of some educational facilities. I don't believe anything in it very much. A point of this was made with gardening training. I guess we have one private gardener school that picks up students without justice. The state subsidy to them is just over 1 million. kr. But there are awfully many other schools that bring up students without justice, students who have completed the high school. We're going to spend over 100 million dollars. for example, the Bible Schools. It goes to students who are not right, and it goes to schools that don't have parallels in public. So we spend a terrible amount of public money paid by the county councils, and we should have been able to clean it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e388	The representative Rolf Reikvam himself pointed out that we have recently learned the lines of school policy. In its education programme, SV states: ‘SV will work in the period to ensure that private schools are taken over as much as possible by the public.’ Why does SV not propose this in this case and in similar cases? Is it so that this is one of the program posts at SV that is not serious? It is also the case that SV uses as slogans for this ageing period ‘people’s power against monetary power’. But isn't it just popularism when students and parents who want to choose school are also allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e400	It is not that all the formulations we have in our programme can be taken up as proposals in the Stortinget. That I should make suggestions here in Stortinget that, for example, the municipality of Nesodden should take over the Steinerskole Nesodden is an entirely un topical issue, because this is really beyond the Grand Duchy's competence. There are a lot of formulations in our programme that cannot be taken up as concrete proposals in the Stortinget. But I know there have been discussions between private schools and municipalities to see if it might be interesting if this could be municipal schools. I hope that some exciting private schools — which are educational alternatives, and which have been recognised as a educational option — could engage in dialogue with the municipalities, with a view to bringing them together, with a view to becoming part of the municipal education system. Part of the Steiner Schools and some other educational options represent exciting schools — there must be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e407	The representative Rivamm was very concerned that one should have equal definitions and equal relationships. Obviously, it's a point of view that I can share in many ways, but I get problems one place. It's about the logic of adults without justice. There is nothing in the law that would prohibit the states from offering to adults without justice. In fact, while in the government's proposal for free school law, there is a ban. But we've said that we want those who have it today to get on with it, simply because they're offering a good deal. The scope of the day shall continue. If the representative of Rikham was concerned that this would be the same, he had to include in the Training Act a ban on non-rightful provision of services to adults by the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e414	There's a little logical flaw in what Arne Lyngstad brings up. The point is this: As I said in the introduction, we can discuss whether we should extend justice, in that way that people will have a new chance even if they have completed high school – we can discuss that. If we do that in public school, of course, we have to do the same thing here. I don't have any trouble getting into that. But what is actually the relationship today is that the county councils get funding, it's input into the framework transfers to the county councils, to the 16-19-year-olds plus the others who are right, it's input into the funding. That's funding we're talking about. That the county councils pick up students because they happen to have free space and otherwise try to fill up is good, but it is not the state that finances it. But in this case, it's the state that's going to finance it by pulling the county municipalities. That's what we're trying to clean up. This goes on economics and on the financing of students without justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e421	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e424	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for an orderly process in committee work. The Christian People's Party believes that the responsibility for child education and training lies with the parents. This allows parents to choose the content of the assignment. It is the task of the country to support parents in this work. This idea of parental responsibility and parental rights has been the starting point of the Christian People's Party in the design of the Norwegian school system. In public schools, cooperation with home schools and training based on the values of society have been central to us. At the same time, we have fought for parents' right to choose alternative schools and for these schools to receive state funding to make parental rights real to all parents regardless of their financial background. The idea of parental rights is also reflected in international conventions. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that there is no contradiction between working for a strong public school and ensuring parents the right to choose another training for their children, in line with their own ideals. We see this right as an important democratic right. The Free School Act protects the rights of minorities and is therefore a democratisation of the school. Odelstinget has previously adopted a law on free schooling which focuses on content and quality in the approval of primary schools. Today’s legislative proposal also implements this for higher education. When the Christian People's Party supports this law, it is in recognition that the old approach based on purpose proves difficult to practice, especially the term ‘professional educational alternative’. In addition, we believe that the bill provides greater legal certainty and predictability for parents and school owners. For the Christian People's Party, there is a historical connection between today's decision and the first fight for a free school law. These included: the fight to grant State aid to several agricultural schools in the 1950s leading up to the idea of a separate school law. Work on today's law, too, has presented us with special challenges. Several of these schools run an enterprise that is highly specialised and primarily professional. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to take care of the diversity of the Free School-Norway. In the eagerness to create systems and secure rights, we are at risk of destroying educational services that are needed in our society and that fill a need. It is therefore important that those currently offering training are allowed to continue their activities. We believe that many of the colleges can develop training provision for new education, more adapted both to individual students and to the needs of the workforce. I am therefore pleased that the law of free school now also has a provision that opens up to carrying out experiments of a pedagogical or organisational nature. It is also important that colleges operate an enterprise that provides an exciting and modern learning environment for training. They should therefore be able to operate training-related establishments without creating their own legal entities and unnecessary red tape. This applies, for example: Garden-educated and fish-bred secondary school options. The purpose of the free schools is to provide training and the State subsidy is to be used for this purpose. It must be possible to do so in a learning environment that is modern and realistic for the activity in question. Some of these are currently offered to adult students who are not eligible for secondary education. In the Christian People's Party, we see the need for a discussion of adult training needs in the light of changes in working life and society. The government announced in St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning, such a review. From this point of view, it is reasonable that fresh schools should continue to provide training to adults without entitlement and receive grants based on the current student scope. I'm glad that the majority is in favour of a separate decision that makes this clear. The concept of ‘authorisation’ in the Decision is understood as a grant paid. Several schools will thus continue their activities, including: Aglo secondary school in Stjørdal. However, it is important to clarify that undergraduate schools are required to give priority to students with a right to secondary education rather than unaccompanied students. In the work on the bill, there has been a discussion on the boundaries between the law and the law on vocational education. It is an overall committee which asks the Ministry to continue to work on this and assess whether all vocational education and training in addition to secondary education should be enshrined in the Law on Vocational Education. The Christian People's Party is involved in this debate with a view to providing today's schools, such as: art schools and Bible schools, continued financial security for their training and enabling them to meet the challenges of modern working life. With this Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e446	The Christian People's Party has traditionally had a very strong commitment to the public common school. But after the government participation with the Right this time, I have to say that the commitment and the will for initiative, as we saw the previous period, has actually disappeared a little bit. We know that the Christian People's Party is for us to have special private schools. We also heard that the representative Lyngstad in his contribution strongly promoted the parents' right to choose. In recent years we have had examples of some extreme private schools, which many actually believe have had a policy that has led to students in these schools being simply discriminated against and treated in a way that can be unfortunate in the long term. I want to ask the representative Lyngstad: does he not see any consequences of a complete release? And does he think that this freedom of choice will in the long run not affect the children?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e455	The representative of the Bekkelem Orheim is right in saying that the Christian People's Party has a strong commitment to the public school. I believe that we have shown it during this large-scale period, too, last in the big message «Culture for Learning», which was presented, and which I experienced that the Workers' Party had no strong objections to. The Christian People's Party has also been a champion for the municipalities to have a framework so that they can maintain schools. What we're seeing from evolution now is that some primary schools clearly have problems. It may be that there is something in the legislation that prevents inter-municipal cooperation in school provision, including at primary level, as well as, of course, that there is a tight financial framework in municipalities. We follow the situation of vigilance. I trust that parents care for their children and want the best for their children’s future, even when they choose which schools the children should attend.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e464	We've become a less homogeneous society. Secularization is at a good pace, and we see different religious groups wanting to establish private schools. Some time ago I saw – it was probably in a Danish newspaper – that 10 pst. of the children who were Muslims went to private schools, established by the various mosques. If we get a similar development in Norway – let's reflect on it a little bit, and here I want to challenge the Christian People's Party – not only in the case of Muslims, but other religious groups too, it is desirable to develop where children from different religious communities go to different schools, i.e. to weaken the community as the public school is like a meeting place where you challenge, etc. Is this a development that worries the Christian People's Party, if that's going to happen? – I'll tell you if. Maybe Lyngstad will reflect a little bit around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e472	After all, it is an exciting challenge for the representative, Mr Rikamm, to give me in relation to the multicultural society and what consequences we are going to draw from it. I believe that good knowledge of each other's religion, outlook on life, traditions, history and culture will be important. The best way we can promote respect and knowledge is that these are allowed to appear with their peculiarity. We have promoted the CRL subject in public schools. I am not afraid that the schools of life, the religious schools, will take this less seriously than the public school does. What can be a challenge in multicultural society is not the religious schools, but it is if ethnic schools arise. It's something other than religious schools. Then we probably have to use other means to prevent it from going into and regulating the emergence of such schools. It's not the religious schools that are the threat, it's maybe the ethnic schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e479	No more lines have been requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e482	In the proposal, the government proposes that private advanced schools be approved irrespective of their purpose. The government argues that the law change will lead to greater choice for both parents and elephants. The central party opposed the law on stand-alone foundations in 2003 and opposes the changes to the law to be dealt with today. In accordance with the right of the elephants and their parents to choose training provision on the basis of their own over-intelligence, the Centre Party wishes to adhere to the rules of the private sector in relation to continuing training where the specific requirement for the purpose is met. We believe that parents' rights will be upheld satisfactorily in the current private school law, and believe that the promise is also in line with Norway's obligations in relation to international conventions. The centre party believes that disclaimers from the county municipality should be added to the decisive weight when applying for the establishment of independent secondary schools. The background for this is that it is the county that has the holistic responsibility for the school structure, provision and planning of further training. The establishment of private provision could threaten the existence of other continuing schools. We further suggest that private school owners have a responsibility to provide students with a full training offer, including students who have a professional course of study with a course of study and a letter of formal qualifications as a final qualification. It means, in our opinion, that these schools are also responsible for providing teaching places for their students, as the county council is responsible for its elephants. When it comes to school money, the Central Party, together with the Government Party, means that the school money should not be more than 15 pst. by the supplemental basis but opens at the same time so that sibling moderation can be provided. This means that the school collects sets cannot take in more than 15 pst. by the supplemental basis. The government suggests that private advanced schools no longer receive supplements for adult elephants without rights. If that proposal had been accepted, there would have been great consequences for some schools and important trade unions. An example is Ghennestad Gartnerskole, who teaches about 50 pst. by the gardeners of the country. Another is Tomb Agricultural School. We think it is good that the government parties go against the Government, and that together with the Central Party and the Progress Party, they propose that self-standing advanced schools, which are currently taking on crops without justice, can still do so on the basis of student numbers for the 2004/2005 school year. At the same time, the Central Party is in favour of an alert review of the growth of its right to further training, and asks the Ministry to come back to Stortinget with a case to this effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e502	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e505	In fact, in this debate, there are trends that we're getting some ideological dividing lines. In this context, it is of some interest to note that the Central Party is also well placed on the socialist side in close cooperation, in most areas, with its newly won comrades in the Workers' Party and SV. The representative of the Central Party shall specify, inter alia: that the opinions of the county council are to be given decisive weight if the establishment of private secondary school services would have a negative impact on the county. In other words, if there is a negative impact on the county, decisive emphasis must be placed on the municipality. Is it the case that the county council is more important for the centre party than the consideration of the individual student, the free choice of parents and students and the choice of what is best for pupils and parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e512	First, I want to say that it's very interesting that a representative from the government party shows interest in, and is very aware of, what both the centre party and the other party do, and that one is constantly pointing towards any cooperation after the next choice. This suggests that one follows well, especially in relation to a policy. The present system is such that it is the county that has the wholehearted responsibility for the supply. If we get a development where the county council misses the overview, it can once again lead to a reduced supply to the students, and that is contrary to our intention that students should have a good offer, whether they live in a state north of the country or south of the country. The keyword here is that it is the county municipality that has it overseen the responsibility for the continuing school supply to our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e519	I see that the center part takes seven miles to find a little bit greener grass on the red side. When I go around the country and visit schools that we talk about in this case, I meet many active centre party politicians, many politicians who are engaged in small schools with small professional environments, small protective subjects and subjects that are closely linked to the construction industry and the trade community in small local places. That's why I'm glad the Center Party has at least seen that this is very important for the adult applicants. My question to the Center Party is: When the Center Party is going to be in government with the SV and the Workers' Party, and they want to change this law, do you think that the Centre Party will get an impact on the SV and the Workers' Party so that these schools, these trade unions and these local communities will continue to live on?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e528	Again I register with interest that there are representatives from the government party who point to any government cooperation between the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV. Then the representative refers to differences between these three parties in the setting and asks a rhetorical question, if I believe that the Center Party will get through to this. Both the representative Trine Skei Grande and others who have experience in government cooperation know that we are not going out and proclaiming a result until we may have seen the negotiating table. If we could go into a part of what the Left said in the election campaign for the current growing period, we'd probably find a number of things where we see that the Left has had to sit down with the Right and Christian People's Party and negotiate a result that all three are a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e533	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e536	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for a very thorough work. The case here is probably showing that it is approaching elections, and in school policy there is a broad consensus on it all, mostly. That's why there'll be some important symbol things again, and this is one of them. Otherwise, I notice that the Workers' Party has a special view of government cooperation. The aim is to win over partners. It's not the cooperative climate we have in this government, but it gives exciting prospects for the government option. This debate is really a free debate, a debate on the right to choose, the right to develop something new, the right to be different and the right to build communities in other ways. The small minority it's talking about that today goes to private schools, and who use that freedom, in no way threatens the freedom of others. I've been a school office in Oslo, which is one of the municipalities that have the most private schools. The private schools here are enriching the public. Oslo actually saves money on having these schools, and Oslo actually gets more money on transfers because you have these schools. The left is always going to be the most busy public school, and of course we also want to get the most money for public school. We remember that there has also been a riot over the municipal economy under other governments. When Bekkemelm Orheim was the Council of State, there was rebellion in Finnmark, not even directed by some of the other parties' central governments. There is no contradiction between working for a strong public school and ensuring parents' right to choose another training for their children in line with other ideals. In dealing with this law, the left has been particularly concerned with ensuring the provision of training in small and protective subjects. For the independent schools providing such education, it has been particularly important to ensure that adults have the right to be admitted as students. I am therefore very pleased that a majority in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has taken the view that existing independent secondary schools, which, after their approval, are 2004 may continue to include adult applicants without the right to secondary education.’» This ensures that in Norway we can still have a school offer on everything from costume makers to bundlers. Norway is becoming poorer culturally without such schooling. For me, it was a strong experience to visit, for example. the wood-carving environment at Dovre, which now has the opportunity to develop a professional environment, develop cultural workers, develop industries and develop many small businesses linked to its school. Rolf Rikvam spoke about a broad vision of knowledge – broad but not allowed to choose. The court, which we've also talked about, is evolving more and more. We in the Left were skeptical when the court was introduced, and now we see that that right evolves more and more into an exclusion rather than a hedge. It's not just for politicians to clear, but also to lay the foundation for creating. Here, I believe that we are now able to create a policy that offers opportunities to create within this educational system as well. Many think of fresh schools as high - ranking schools with leather whips. They haven't visited these schools very much. These are cutting and living trade unions. It's art education, it's small-time, and it's all the things that make our country richer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e556	In this debate, as in other similar debates, it has been said that it is now free to establish schools or private schools. In this context, there may be reason to recall that what we are dealing with today is a grant law. It is free to establish private schools in Norway. It is very small in order to obtain approval for the establishment of private schools. But it is schools that then have to be financed privately, so you have to take very high school fees. What we are dealing with now is the question of whether any more of these schools should be given the opportunity to receive support under certain conditions from the state, so that they can make school money, and so that these schools can be accessible to everyone. I also notice that, after all, it was a more heated debate when we discussed the first revision of the law. Then there were a number of scary images about free slips, about large class barriers in Norwegian school, that it would weaken the public school. At that time, I thought that was the basis for a certain attempt at reality orientation, and I said that I thought that: "it is a fundamental reform, but a reform that will hardly lead to a large number of parents choosing a free school for their children." It's basically important, not because we justify what Rolf Rikvam claims, with increased competition, but we justify it with three-four important things: Firstly, this strengthens the fundamental rights to choose an alternative school for their children or to choose it yourself once you have become an older child, and that strengthening this respect for the minority and not just that part of the minority that has a well-filled wallet is democratising. Secondly, we want to strengthen freedom of choice. I agree with Ine Marie Eriksen that it is primarily about the freedom of choice to choose something, but I think it is essential that it is also possible in certain cases to choose from something. It can be very important for some children and for some students. Thirdly, we want a greater diversity of offer, and I have to add that freedom of choice and diversity I think leads to increased quality overall for Norwegian school. The fourth reason, which is less principleal, but very practical, is that we simplify the practice of law, create greater predictability and legal certainty, and it also has a principleal averaging. The main reasons why we have not been given — or have not been given — a release, as the socialists put it, are that by far the majority are satisfied with the public school in Norway. I hope that more and more people will remain as we carry out our public school reforms. Secondly, it is very difficult to establish fresh soles – strict demands and hard work, and there is no economic incentive in our law as opposed to e.g. the Swedish. So it's still just going to be 1.9 pst. of pupils attending primary schools and 4.7 pst. by secondary students. So far, ten new schools have been approved that could not have been approved under the old private school law. Ghosts were also seen at high light in the case of the segregation that was to come as a result of the law on high school. It also characterizes the setting this time from the minority, and I have to say that it's an argument, if the minority had been right, which I would have been very concerned about. But it turns out not to be the case either. It hasn't happened. It cannot be detected, as the minority claims. Firstly, it must be said that the large performance differences in Norwegian schools do not exist between schools, but within schools and within the individual classes. In addition, the social and ethnic segregation of Norwegian schools is already strong as a result of the residence segregation, and then the question of whether a number of schools or free choice of schools are increasing or reducing this segregation. There's no sign that it's increasing segregation. Rather, it can help reduce it. The motive behind parents who choose the health school for their children is that they want a more heterogeneous student environment than they would get by going to the ordinary secondary school. There is also no economic segregation in this high school system. It's 2-3 pst. more with higher revenues in the fresh school than in the public school, and there are 2-3 pst. with lower incomes than those in public schools. So if the purpose of the Advance Party is to meet your own voters here, you actually do, if that's true, what Rolf Rekovam said, that they have lower incomes than other and also lower levels of education than others. The third argument that public school funds are stolen is also not correct. Students bring with them some of the resources they spend in public schools, and when the funds for the health care are increasing, it is a consequence of the increase in public school expenditure. It must also mean that private kindergartens steal funds from public kindergartens. You could ask SV: are you going to take over or buy up the private kindergartens from the perspective of stealing money from the public kindergartens? Of course it's not like that. Everyone is talking today about the need for increased diversity in Norwegian school. Some will have a state-defined diversity, a diversity to be defined from above, where the private sector and civil society are considered almost a department of the country. We see it differently. We believe that they are equivalent actors in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e589	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e592	The government is very much talking about diversity and about competition between public and private schools. But is it the desire for greater diversity that is the driving force behind the legislative amendment proposal? In the proposition, the government says that the old law is difficult to enforce: ‘With the diversity that now characterises public schools, the concept of ‘professional educational option’ has become very difficult to define’. Well, there's a great diversity in public school today. So we're left with the same old lesson that there's competition that's the reason, and that's what's the general no matter what area we're talking about, it might seem like. Can the Council of State explain, by way of example, preferably, how competition between public and private schools leads to a quality improvement of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e604	I don't think I used the word competition once. I don't think it's mentioned in the proposition once. I think I've heard that the representative of the Progress Party used that expression. This is just an ingenious thing that the opposition is doing. We're talking about diversity. That's right, we want to do that. It's absolutely right that it's hard to practice the old law. Montessori pedagogics today are confusingly similar to the pedagogics used in many public schools. So, a socialist state council that didn't want to be in good health could, with that reason, refuse the establishment of a Montessori school. That's why we want to change the law. When there is a great diversity in public schools, do we need some private alternatives that could show even greater diversity? Is that possible? In fact, I don't think all creativity is in the state and in public offices. I think there's some creativity out there also among the people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e613	When we now have reasonable free access to establishment within a national authorisation system, it is also important that we focus on significant activity on the supervisory side. This is important for the Progress Party. If we slip up in the establishment, we'll focus on supervision. It is also important – and I hope, therefore, that the Council of State can confirm this – to work systematically with the development of regulations that are unambiguous and clarifying both for those who are required to comply and not least for those who are required to supervise compliance. When I point out that, it's because we have fresh cases in the sector where there's a dispute and disagreement about how to do something as simple as counting students and registering students, so that you follow the law's intention and are on the right side in getting the financial resources that come with the school's activities. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that this is an attempt to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e622	This is important. The government has said through this free school reform that we want to put greater emphasis on content and quality. We also want everything to be done in an orderly way, that it should be possible to supervise it. It is important for the sake of legitimacy in the field of high school and high school law and for the sake of schools themselves, but it is also important, of course, because public funds are managed. It has probably been recorded through the media that there are now some who have gone closer in the seams. I guess that's the first time a government does it. That means we put our weight on it. Most of the cases that have now been mentioned in the media as difficult cases are cases that have been approved by previous governments, especially by Labour Party Councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e629	The word "competition" is not something we've invented. It is used in this debate by the first initiator to support this proposal, as a reason to make it easier to establish private schools. Then I want to get to grips with something that I've mentioned several times before, that's about funding and subtraction from the grant to the county councils, so it's really the county councils that pay the private schools. The council was not overrun, she has underlined that, but she did not get a pass on her proposal, as SV and the Workers' Party wanted, in order to clean up this relationship with the right/not right. Since the Council of State did not arrive, will the Council of State consider this way of financing, whether it is right to include grants from county councils for students who are not entitled, because the county council has not been paid for these pupils from the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e638	First of all, with competition: as far as I know, it was the representative of Sortevik who spoke first. He is from the Advancement Party and not a member of the Government, and, as far as I know, he also has another principal proposal. Having said that, I think it's a little strange in a case that's described as big, principled and ideological, that you choose to stay on this little question, about adults without justice, in most of the posts. Once it's done, I guess there's two reasons for it. You want to clean up the law, and I have sympathy for that. But this is an example that it's not always easy to adapt people to the system, that the system sometimes has to adapt to people and reality. As far as the economy is concerned, I can reassure Requam that the counties are only being drawn for the growth of pupils. Because that majority is in favour here, maintaining the status, that is, maintaining the quantity, the number of students, is not going to be an economic change for the states. So it's the status quo, and it's not a revolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e645	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e648	Ot. pp. No 64 and the setting that we are dealing with today must please all those who are concerned with quality in school and with real freedom of choice for students also in secondary education. We now get a law that gives the same possibilities in high school as in primary school. It's been called by many, not least students. Here we go. The content and quality shall be the basis for approval irrespective of purpose. That's a reasonable change. It will clearly open up a wider range, and it will increase freedom of choice. The bill has been well received in high school circles and among many parents and students, and it is gratifying that the proposition is largely adopted today. For the Right and Government parties, however, it has been necessary to clarify some points, and I'm going to have to comment on some of these. First, — again — adult students without rights: In some schools and in some disciplines, there are today mainly adult students without rights. There could be a real danger that education in some important disciplines would not have enough students to be able to continue the activity if the wording of the proposition was interpreted as it could be read, namely that the colleges could not accommodate adults without rights. The majority of the Committee assumes that this amendment shall not apply to existing schools which today, after their approval, are able to accommodate unaccompanied adult students. The majority also assumes the actual number of students in the current school year. For the right, this has been an important clarification. Without this, gardening could include: at Génestad Gartnerskole, have been at risk. The same applies to training in a number of small and protective subjects, which mainly have pupils of a well-adult age. Of course, the restriction to today's schools and today's student numbers must not prevent other schools from applying to the department for a derogation from the general rule if the need can be demonstrated. A change has also been made to sections 1 to 4 concerning access for schools to other activities. We have believed that it is important for schools to have access to such activities without having to establish their own legal entity. Of course, it is a prerequisite that this ‘other activity’ is closely linked to the school activity and that it is the school activity that constitutes the greater part of the total activity. We know that for some schools, this type of activity — such as gardening, breeding, practical training and other things — is an important part of the overall learning environment. I would think that this is an important clarification in the law. The majority have also found it necessary, through a note, to clarify the school money paragraphs. There are a number of schools, including: Montessori schools in the Oslo area, which are currently exempt from the provision that the school fees cannot exceed 15 pst. on the basis of the subsidy, because the pedagogical scheme itself is costly. Although these schools do not have a counterpart in similar public schools in the community, it is obvious that these schools must also be able to apply to the Ministry for exemption from the provision. I see, of course, that these schools, which currently have a derogation, will also receive it when it is now applied for under this new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e664	I want to repeat that this is an important day for students and parents, when we get more freedom of establishment within a national recognition system throughout basic education. Norway is more in line with our two Scandinavian neighbouring countries, Sweden and Denmark. Nothing from this suggests that private schooling and the right of students to free schooling are politically highly controversial. On the contrary, it seems to be widely accepted by many different political groups in the two neighbouring countries. I also take with me that when it comes to free choice of school within the county boundaries in Norway, there is also no disagreement everywhere. I believe that I have registered that in Rogaland even the Workers' Party is going in to maintain the free choice of high school. Perhaps the Workers' Party's fraction in this committee should study it a little further. Freedom of choice for students does not entail mass emigration from public school. Freedom of choice continues to be a freedom with strong frameworks and limits. It's the Progress Party a little bit satisfied with. So this is going to be 85 pst. of what is in public school, and 85 pst. is and becomes 85 pst. – it won't be anymore. A fair freedom of choice without consequences for the rest – because that is what the representatives of the SV and the Workers' Party seem to be so concerned about – would be doing something about the allocation of resources. It would be to attach the resource allocation to the individual student, so that the choice of school does not affect the allocation of resources. The Progress Party has a model for that. We have many times in Stortinget suggested that the state funding for students who are going to school follow the student. But it has all the other parties so far rejected. What are the alternatives that show some distinctions, and we are left in the political debate? We're left with an SV that thinks they should work to ensure that private schools are as much as possible taken over by the public. So everything else has to go away. The Labour Party wants the old private school law, that is, no money. So it's going to be possible to choose a private school, but you're not going to get any public money on the way. It is this that remains against the option adopted here today, that it is possible to establish new schools which are not in public ownership, provided they can prove that they conduct a good quality education and have been assessed by our approval body. Another description of the options from the two opposition parties would be uniform. Yes, in fact, a person could also use the term ‘disdain for students and parents’, which sometimes shows greater expectations than the public school nearby is able to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e680	In relation to the response from Karita Bekkemelm Orheim earlier in the debate on the possibilities of refusing applications that are not in line with Norwegian legislation, whether in respect of equality law, primary school law or other type of legislation that the Stortinget may have adopted, I feel the need to clarify that of course it is fully possible, and that is also to be done in accordance with the law that is now being passed. At that point, there's no change. But what might be new is that it's going to be a different practice if this government is allowed to continue with the new system. In all the cases that now arise, where there is a basis for asking timely questions about the way some schools operate, both educationally and partly financially, we see that they have received approval under previous legislation given by a Labour Party Council. It was also mentioned that there was a large increase in subsidies to private schools. All these increases are a consequence of the decision making process, where the Storting has decided that the so-called COSTRA figures should be taken into account when the private schools receive grants. When there is then an increase in the use of resources for the public part of the school system, which is reported, there will also automatically be an increase in funding for the private school system. It would also have happened if it had been a Labour Party Council. Otherwise, I find it interesting that the Workers' Party did not clarify and answered the question from Arne Lyngstad that if they were to get into government position once in the future, they would repeal the law that is being passed today. It must either mean that they don't know what they want, or that they argue in one way today and intend to do something completely different in the future. I think that both the Storting and not least those who depend on the decisions we make here have a right to know. I hope the Workers' Party will be able to clarify whether they will comply with the laws that the Storting is making today, even in the future, or whether there will be any of the first changes. I would also like to clarify, since the concept of competition has been very much drawn into this, that the main reason for this is diversity and freedom of choice. It's like when someone comes up with something new and does things in a new and better way, it's often an inspiration to others. Sometimes this happens in public schools – to inspire the private, and sometimes there is innovation, innovation, in the private system that is also a joy for the public school system, so that it gets better and the quality of the schools in total is greater than the sum of two plus two is equal to four.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e691	This is only a brief reply to the representative, Mr Voie. Since he challenged me quite specifically about what the policy of a possible new government will be on this point, I can say that I am not going to be the negotiator or prime minister of the new government. Voie has good experience in how this is done, since he himself has been sitting and participating in that work. But what I can assure the representative is that there will be very clear answers to that question from the three parties, where everyone will be very clear about the policy being pursued. In this debate, the Labour Party has given a very clear answer to our position on this matter. We're on the law of the day. We also say very clearly that with the policies and developments of this government, there will be an impoverishment of the public school, and we see an increase in the budgets of the private school. If Voie likes it or not, there is an increase of almost $1 billion during this period, if this budget is now adopted, and there will be some consequences that we will of course take the debate on and have the opportunity to make visible in many different forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e700	The post that Karita Bekkemelm Orheim had now was in many ways very elucidating in relation to the attitude of the Workers' Party. I can't see it any other way than that the Workers' Party will repeal this law if they come into government position after the election. It also tells of course that the freedom of parents who want to create their own alternative will limit the Workers' Party in the future. I also noticed that the representative Beckemel Orheim argues with costs. It is clear that the costs of boarding schools reflect only the efforts made by public authorities in the counties and municipalities. There's a close relationship here. That's what's causing the increase, and you get this comparison. I don't feel that the challenge for the public school is the economy that the fresh school gets. The challenge for the public sector is, of course, how it manages to finance our well-being. That is why – I would say, as the Minister of Finance has come into the Chamber – we need to facilitate the creation of value in this country that can finance the public sector. It's going to be our challenge in the future, to think a little bit more macro-economic rather than just looking at one chapter of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e709	I don't want to contribute to the extension of the debate, but now the representative, Bekkemel Orheim, has said so many times that these colleges help to defuse the public schools, that I have to take the floor. It's very confusing, what was said. So the expenditure growth in public school. The last figures we have to stick to date date back to 2003 and apply to the expenditure growth of 2002. That's the cost per cent. A student you have to watch. In primary schools, expenditure increased per year. Student in this period, this year, from NOK 59 000 to approx. NOK 63,500. In upper secondary schools, they increased from approx. NOK 80000 for approx. $86,500. It was a public subject. In upper secondary education, they increased from DKK 99 500 to NOK 107 000. That's the increase in expenditure per person. pupils in public schools. What happens when a student finishes public school and starts a high school, is that this student takes a small part, 85 pst. of the operating costs, into the fresh air. If that's the way the socialists here represent it, I don't understand how to defend at all the equal treatment of private and public kindergartens. It must mean, then, that the children in the private kindergartens steal money from the children who go to public kindergartens. Of course it's not like that. When the child or student disappears, the expenses also disappear. So you're just taking a part of this. What is used in primary schools is a consequence of a regulated system and a consequence of what is happening in public schools, where expenditure has increased. Otherwise, I have to say – I guess I have said that before and allow myself to say again – that the Workers' Party has not exactly impressed with its school policy during this period. There's been a lot of SFO and a little bit of hours after the right of the 1990s have been fighting to increase the number of hours. I heard today that the representative Bekkelem Orheim thought that the Progress Party was the main supporter of the Government's school policy, and she gave me credit for it's the Right School Policy that gets through to the Government. It contrasts with what the previous Minister of Education, Trond Giske, said in a debate with me yesterday or yesterday. After I had explained the entire school policy to the government, he said he supported 99 pst. and that it was due to the fact that the Right had not been impressed by its school policy in the Government. The one percent that was left, I think, was the resource question, which the representative Bekkemelm Orheim helps to confuse about here, and the rest of these free school laws. I guess we have to interpret the answer to Mr. Orheim here instead so that you want to remove the law and reintroduce the old private school law, which is in line with what the opposition has said earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e722	I must be allowed to assure the representative, Bekkemel Orheim, that from the right we are pleased with the growth that has taken place in the grant to the private schools. It's a small step on the way to equalising private and public schools. The same increase in costs would have happened, as the Council of State explained now, if we had had another Council of State, even left the Workers' Party, in the government offices. Then I'll also be allowed to clarify that with just 85 pst. grants to private schools must provide these schools themselves through collections, through contributions from parents, through grants from other teams, wherever they can now collect the money, to finance the other 15 pst. It means, in sum, that the money that becomes available to the school community as a whole gets bigger. This must also be taken into account when discussing the cost aspect of private and public schools together.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e729	What will happen after the election if we get the opportunity to adjust any of this, you don't know so far. Our vote is going to be so that we vote in favour of the old law, that is, the law of the day, because we just don't have the opportunity to snort our own choice. It's a pretty complicated process to sneak a completely alternative bill here at Stortinget. Our vote means, in fact, that we are voting against these amendments, that we are in favour of today's legislation. It is clear that when we go through the law of private school after the elections, there will be a discussion between those who will then form a possible majority after the elections. So we'll see what it ends with. I don't think it's possible to get anything much further than that. But today's vote means that we are on today's legislation, precisely because it is not practicable to do so in any other way. So I want to get into the cost a little bit. We spend $2 billion, and $2 billion is pretty much in private schools. What is serious is the way we finance this, we subtract from those who are responsible for the public schools, in this case the municipalities and county municipalities. Then you can say that the subtraction from the municipalities and county councils is slightly lower than what the private schools get, as you operate at a lower rate. But the problem here is that marginal costs are different from average costs of running a school. When a county – let's use Akershu County Council as an example – is drawn for a certain number of students, it's not the marginal cost for these students. The marginal costs of these students could possibly be zero, probably, almost zero in any case, because they belonged to a group, and they wouldn't lead to any increase in the number of employees of teachers, because this is distributed among many schools. So those who get the worst out of this system are the ones that this money is deducted from – in this case the county council – when we talk about law about high school. I'm not sure if it's an optimal use of resources like we're doing now, subtracting from county education systems and putting it into a private education system. So I'm not sure if we're getting the best possible use of resources. I feel reasonably sure that we do not get it. If we just make economic considerations, I'm also quite convinced that this is not a very good way to organise our education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e740	Arne Sortevik has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e743	Well, it might have to be 1 minute to figure out, but let's go. From the latter we have received a sort of response from one of the declared government partners. The answer not given by the representative Bekkelem Orheim was, in his own way, also a talking answer. What made me take the floor was 85 pst. Percentageing may be difficult, but it's actually even harder to get 85 pst. to be more than 85 pst. There are students who choose to leave public school, taking them with them. It's also like, after the amendment we had in 2003, they're 85 pst. party to the municipality where the independent school is located. So there's a clear and clear link between the resources. But it's still just going to be 85 pst. If this is the concern of the Workers' Party, they should be involved in the solution of the Advance Party, namely to ensure that all students receive the same amount without the use of the money by local politicians on the road for some other good purposes, or that state politicians on the road spend the money for other purposes they are engaged in. If it were the interests of the student and his parents, the Workers' Party was really concerned, they would choose such a funding solution, but that's not what the Workers' Party is concerned about. They are committed to taking care of the administration and the political system, and they are committed to ensuring that fewer potential students go to anything other than a school owned by the public. That's where the dividing lines go, and the concern for the resources shown is a skin concern. The political divisions go on a completely different footing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e754	Karita Bekkemelm Orheim has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e757	Then I'll try to be short, for the sake of time. First, I want to say to the representative Voie as an answer to what he asked me, that one thing is what the Workers' Party claims in this Chamber, but I recommend that you read the last Municipal Report, where there are many who react and claim exactly the same thing as the Workers' Party does, even though the Council of State and the Right have a different opinion. So to the Council of State: she can well hareble with the involvement of the school leisure system, for camp schools and for advertising in school books if she wants to. But the situation is, in fact, that the Right has not provided a single budget with an extension of the school day and the great promise to the common school that we have heard of. Then we've dealt with St. reported. No 30 for 2003–04, where there was a broad majority, but so far we have seen that the money has gone to completely different things from the public general school. As far as kindergartens are concerned, there is a completely different situation, for it is about building up an offer that has not been there for all the children in Norway, and that is quite different from the school situation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e768	Jan Olav Olsen has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e772	I'm going to spend a lot of time shorter. When Karita Bekkemelm Orheim says that we haven't provided any budget where we've increased the school day, it's a positive error. In the first budget that this government provided, there was an increase of three hours, and also in the current budget, there is an increase in the number of hours in school. So it's a positive error when you say there's no suggestion for an increase in the hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e779	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together. [[Footage, see page 23]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e808	The two issues are initially very much in agreement, so there is no need to spend time. But there's one unresolved, essentially very important question in these two matters. The survey has decided that pupils and students should have a good working environment and that supervision should be carried out by a competent body, namely the Labour Inspectorate. This means that when the supervisory board is to supervise – we will use Chapter 13 of the Working Environment Act, as mentioned in the case – Section 83, confirmed by the Council of State in letters to me, will apply. This section 83 says: «The King shall lay down detailed rules on fees/fees. The fees/fees shall be the basis for an outlays charge.’;» Here's what we get a fundamentally important discussion. For ‘compulsory basis’, we are transferred to the Enforcement Act which states in its paragraphs 1-2: «Requirements against the State, county councils, municipalities, intermunicipal companies, regional health companies and health enterprises.Requirements against the State cannot be enforced. Claims for money against the State cannot be secured under Chapter 14. Claims for money against a municipality, county municipality, intermunicipal company, regional health or health care undertaking may not be made subject to Chapter 7 or guaranteed in accordance with Chapter 14 cf. § 52 of the municipal law». When this section 83 applies and we are to have supplementary supervision of both private and public institutions, we find in the remarkable situation that the private institutions are transparent in relation to the enforcement law, while the public do not. Equality creates a very big inequality, which can actually be a much more effective weapon to get rid of all the private institutions than what we've spent a lot of time discussing here today. I just want to ask the Council of State on that occasion, at least in the case of the law of higher education that we are going to deal with later, to have this issue properly clarified, so that it is not curious that a Right-State Council gives the weapon to shut down all private educational institutions. Furthermore, the Contracting Party will deal with the unanimity available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e829	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. [[See pages 29 and 30]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e844	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e851	Accounting is a fundamental and important function of our economic system, both for the companies, for the owners of the enterprises, for investors, creditors, employees and also for public authorities, in particular in relation to tax control. Accounting forms the basis for the preparation of annual accounts, Equation tasks, business and trading tasks and is therefore of great interest to a wide range of external sources. This means that the accounting rules must ensure a satisfactory recording and documentation of the individual transactions. At the same time, there is no doubt that the work on accounting is extensive for thousands of enterprises in the country and entails costs both in production and in storage. In its proposal, the Ministry proposes a separate bookkeeping law replacing Chapter 2 of the 1998 Accounting Act. The bill is based on an investigation by the Accounting Committee. Business bookkeeping is extensive and of great importance to a wide range of social services. Therefore, an overall financial committee welcomes the proposed adoption of its own law. There have been many contributions from the business community in this matter, in particular related to the significant costs of keeping accounting information. On this basis, the government has proposed several legislative measures that reduce storage costs. The law distinguishes primary and secondary accounting information. While primary accounting information will still have a retention period of 10 years, which today will require secondary accounting information to be retained for only three years and six months. The accounting officer may also, as a general rule, choose the free storage medium, including electronic storage. This makes everyday life easier for many companies. In its comments on the recommendation, the Committee stresses that the value of a 10-year retention period should be assessed against the overall socio-economic costs of such a retention period. This assessment must also cover the relationship with the tax and equality laws, as well as criminal provisions and limitation periods. The Committee considers it natural for the Government to return to Stortinget with an appropriate briefing on this matter. The Committee also considers that the exemption by regulation or by individual decisions from the provisions on storage, storage time and electronic availability should be used actively, on the basis of an ongoing assessment of societal benefits. The Accounting Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2005. The Committee points out that new rules will require system changes in data applications and arrangements for new procedures, investments, etc. of the reporting agent. The implementation period may be limited for certain establishments and the Committee therefore asks the Government to ensure that the accounting rules in force can be used for one year in parallel with the new Accounting Act. This will ensure a smooth transition to new legislation. With regard to the requirement of individual teams to exempt cash registers from custody for 10 years, the majority have not responded to this. Indeed, the documentation of each transaction is the basis for the documentation of the turnover and profit or loss of the business and thus a central and important accounting information. However, the possibilities of electronic storage and exemption granted could help to ensure that the costs of storing this type of documentation are not unduly high for business. Both the Government and the Financial Committee have placed great emphasis on the balance between the value of accounting information and the cost of accounting in business. The Accounting Act provides a clear simplification and improvement for businesses and ensures high quality of central and important information on business in Norway. On this background I would like to recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e881	The case spokesperson has done some good for the content of the case and for the committee's consideration of it, so I will concentrate on the points that have been important for SV in the matter. The objective of the Accounting Act is to ensure the satisfactory recording and documentation of the individual transactions during the accounting year, and with the secure and reliable information that can be verified. The accounting rules include: central to the tax and tax control of the Governing Boards and the accounting should be able to control and host control. In other cases, there may be a need for transparency, e.g.: in the case of the processing of books and in the investigation of financial crime. For SV, it is therefore important that these rules facilitate transparency and control, and we believe that the Government has balanced well in the balance between the need to provide external groups with information and the ability to prevent financial crime, against the obligations imposed on the individual accounting officer and the costs incurred by accounting. The starting point for SV is that the accounting rules must be clear and strict enough to ensure that we have good travel agents to prevent financial crime, and that is why we are also in favour of the government proposal. We record that the NHO and some others have objected to the proposal, and then the particular point of ten-year retention for accounting material. A number of hearing authorities have pointed out that this has not been adequately done, and they therefore believe that it is necessary to get a closer look at the benefits of such an extended storage period. SV understands that longer storage times can be a challenge for some business drivers, both in terms of administration and storage space. We have therefore supported the demand for a new review of this point – it is the whole committee behind it, for which the case-speaker did well, by asking the Government to come back to Stortinget with such an orientation. We will, however, stress that we are in favour of a legislation that ensures the best possible basis for the potential to prevent and detect economic crime. If a 10-year retention period strengthens this, the proposal will stand, even after such a review. Finally, I would just like to remind you, since the Committee is in the middle of budgetary work, that ensuring the tax rate increases resources to carry out controls is another aspect of the important work in the fight against economic crime. We in SV have strengthened the agency in our alternative budgets for many years, and then it might be time to ask other parties to consider the same proposal in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e898	The Accounting Act is based on continuity with previous regulations. The bill is designed in close cooperation with industry and in connection with the Norwegian Accounting Foundation. In this way, it can be said that a law on bookkeeping has been given that the accounting profession has largely ensured quality. This is also important for a law affecting so many people and economic entities in Norway. This is an important law for the internal control of enterprises, for users of accounts, for the statutory auditor and for tax authorities. The law is also important in order to detect and combat financial crime. The outcome of the process has become a legal text and a legal structure in which business needs for continuation are more obvious than the needs of control authorities, but this is of course where regulations play an important role. The continuation represents known mechanisms and known control measures. During the examination of the Accounting Act, the emphasis of the Party of Progress was on the following points: the cost level of business ability to facilitate business trust and confidence adaptation to digitisation control options; I would like to highlight a few areas where I think better solutions could be found. Several hearing bodies called for a reduction in the retention obligation, but this was not taken into account, for example: because it interferes with both tax and tax legislation and the possibilities of back-testing. The Progress Party wanted a review with a view to reducing the retention obligation down to six to eight years, but the majority, consisting of the government parties, the Labour Party and the SV, only wanted an assessment and guidance from the Government. The Party wishes to prioritise and take into account the additional costs and the long-term retention period for business. The retention obligation is burdensome for businesses in general, and I don't think a reduction in the number of years that the data are stored would reduce the control possibilities mentioned. Another controversial point is whether different specifications are to be developed on an ongoing basis or could be developed on request. Following examination by the Financial Committee, the preparation of such specifications becomes an obligation. We wanted an option that gave the individual company the opportunity to choose the solution that best suited it. For large enterprises, there will be such a large amount of data that completed mandatory specifications will be inconclusive. In addition, this will refer to ‘dead’ data, from which any control body cannot sort or make a selection. Therefore, a knowledge requirement would be more appropriate for both businesses and control authorities as well as for any investigation. Accounting is an area in which considerable challenges will be faced in the future as more and more document flows are being electronicized. A flexible regulatory framework is a prerequisite for keeping track of developments. Nevertheless, I think the regulatory access became a matter of urgency. I fear that cost-benefit considerations can be completely disregarded by the tax authorities' control needs. Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e939	The representative Per Erik Monsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e942	The Accounting Committee has unanimously asked the Ministry to examine the issue of the retention period for accounting material. This investigation has not been carried out. The Committee and all the hearing bodies have pointed out that such simplification would bring great benefits and cost savings to business. Regardless of whether we have received this investigation, the Centre Party will propose that we introduce a five-year storage period for primary material, however, so that the Ministry can prescribe a period of up to 10 years for enterprises and industries where there is a particular need for control purposes. In Denmark, a five-year retention period has been practised for many years. The control authorities did not wish to extend the last legislative amendment in 1999. By reducing the retention period to five years, a serious business desire to simplify is made. With this proposal, one makes it easier for the large majority who operate legally and seriously. One should rather strengthen conditions and control where there is suspicion of fraud. The centre party has proposed a significant increase in the tax rate in recent years' budgetary procedures, and we believe that such a strengthening would bring great economic benefits to society. It appears that an overall committee will grant exemptions in terms of storage time. Why not then also go in for a change from ten to five years? After we've been informed, it's very rare that a person goes back more than five years in bookkeeping, and it's rare that illegalities over longer periods than five years become the result of the measured penalty. I will present the following proposals: ‘The first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 13 of the Accounting Act shall be replaced by the following: 1 to 4 shall be kept in Norway for five years after the end of the financial year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e960	The representative Karin Galaaen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e963	The proposal for a new bookkeeping law is very pleased with the Left. We've been busy getting a monthly simplification for business, cutting costs for business, and we've got that. However, one must have two thoughts in its head at the same time and see the simplifications that one makes, as opposed to other legislative acts, which are linked to what others have had: the concern about economic crime and the ability to check, for example, for example. tax, VAT and other things. We are very pleased that a mass accumulation is now going in to get this properly evaluated, to evaluate all these laws against each other. I expect that the main objective is simplification and cost reduction for business, but also to take care that we have an ever-increasing economic crime, and look at it in context. Unlike the Progress Party, the Left actually trusts the Government, and trusts that it does what the Storting is now asking for. Then I'm a little surprised at the Center Party, because in the previous government that Left was in, Gudmund Restad was busy with a monthly tightening of the decade rule, and he wasn't going to rich when you were crazy to go further than that. So when the Center Party now enters for five years, I'm very happy that they're on the loose, and that then we get a monthly simplification of accounting laws, so that one can also get cost reduction and simplification for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e972	I can most likely refer to the post of the case spokesperson, as the Labour Party is in conjunction with the government party in this setting. But that we've found a jump in the setting is because the setting takes care of some areas in a much better way than what was done in the government's proposition. First, it is a decree that the Government assesses the value of a 10-year retention period against the cumulative social costs of such a retention period and that the Storting is informed of this assessment. Furthermore, the exemption from the retention time and electronic availability decision should be used actively. The third point is that the broad regulatory competence that lies here is used cautiously, at least in relation to making demands as additional increases the burden on businesses, on business. Finally, the fourth point is that one opens so that the current rules can be used in parallel with a new accounting law for one year to come. I see it as of course that the Order follows up these points. The reason for the request for a transitional arrangement is that it costs and that it takes time to convert systems and procedures to meet new requirements. The other points are, of course, an expression of a desire to limit the cost and work – overall resource use – to industry as much as possible. When I say 'as much as possible', it is assumed that one must not in any way take control of the tax and equality authorities or, where appropriate, the police investigation facilities. Therefore, an assessment must be considered with due regard to one another and, as others have also pointed out here, must be seen in the context of tax and equality legislation, criminal offences and limitation periods. So I don't have any trouble seeing the different concerns that the government has to include here, and that there are difficult evaluations that have to be made here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e991	I am pleased with the broad agreement that is behind the setting of the new bookkeeping law. It's a law that simplifies. In addition to a significant simplification of technology, the law also makes technology possible. But it's a law that has to take different considerations. And when control is highlighted, it's not just for the sake of state control authorities, but it's also for the sake of customers, subcontractors and others who want the accounts to provide a proper insight. There is a risk for many small and medium-sized enterprises that the accounts are correct. We have a lot of things that show that it hasn't always been like this. And so it's private that also loses big if not accounting and accounting are correct. In this area, too, the international regulations are increasingly, not least through the EU, committed to us, and that is good, because then the insight is also present as to whether you are dealing with the rest of the world and vice versa. I can assure you that we will follow up on the requests made by the Committee, in line with any constitutional practice. Of course, the feedback you want in relation to storage time must also have a certain number of years as a basis. And if you want to weigh costs and keep them against other things, you also have to have some experience of what those costs might be. I remember the time of the cashier's office is almost over. There are huge quantities here for ten years in a food business, for example, but it is not quite like this anymore. The data is a little more transparent and less space-consuming. So we're going to follow this up and come back to Stortinget, as I said. I can also assure you that regulations are not to be drawn up by the underlying agencies, but by the Ministry of Finance, where different interests are of course to be weighed. I would like to comment on two specific proposals that have been raised, from parties that have already concluded. In particular, the comments of the Centre Party are strange. In this case, the Ministry is given the power to designate individual industries where control is not so important, at least only five years of storage. The industries that then had to be left must be a kind of criminal edition of individual industries and businesses. To put it that way: I don't want such a power to designate potential basements. I wonder if you will give such authority to a department regardless of government. The Progress Party has also concluded that cash registers are not primary documentation. It's also based on, I have to say, lack of insight. The former Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad of the Central Party had some insight here – I would say a rather significant insight – as a former lieutenant. I think he had some experience actually thinking that cashier's money wasn't so stupid to be able to use to check out possible financial crime, whether it was fraud in relation to the owner or fraud in relation to the public authority by avoiding VAT, for example. So cashier -- not in the literal sense of the word, but as evidence of what's turned on in the cashier -- is certainly a primary documentation. I don't have to use examples here, but to say it like this: From a part of Oslo and other cities and elsewhere, also called pubs, it's actually being able to check that it matches the counting device on the tapper a rather important way of controlling it daily, whether it's in relation to the owner, or it's in relation to the public authorities. So these kind of conclusions where you move cash registers from primary to secondary documentation, I'm going to say actually weaken the possibility of social control and for ownership control, which for the Progress Party, I guess, is just as important.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1005	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 30 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1013	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1020	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Karita Bekkemelm Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 2-9, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals defining secondary education in the law on upper secondary education in the same way as in the law on training.’ Proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the grant base to independent schools to capital expenditure from the 2005/2006 school year onwards.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Before we go to voting on the vote, the President will draw attention to two corrections: in a new section 1-5, the «deposition» is directed to «derogation», and in Section 6 A-4, last paragraph, the «Chapters 10A and 10B» is directed to «§ 54D».
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1059	The President will first vote on the proposal No. 2-8, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1158	The President has understood that now that their own proposals have been dropped, the Progress Party will support the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1187	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it. The President recalls that ‘derogation’ is addressed to ‘adequate’.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1246	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition, with the exception of the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1290	Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they are in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1355	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they are moving towards the fifth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1456	Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they are moving towards the second sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1499	Here the Workers' Party has notified the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party that they are moving towards the fourth sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1557	Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they are moving towards the fourth sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1742	Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they are in favour. The President recalls that the referenced corrigendum in the last paragraph of Section 6A-4, where it shall read ‘§ 54D’ instead of ‘Chapters 10A and 10B’.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1764	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1791	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President has understood that the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1805	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1815	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1905	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e1915	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e2009	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e2019	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e2026	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Per Erik Monsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 5, from Karin Galaaen, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party The President noted that proposal No. 7 in the setting shall be No. 5th@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate as soon as possible the possibility of introducing a generally shorter storage period.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e2159	For the first and second subparagraphs, an aberrant proposal, No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Booking law § 5, first and second subparagraphs shall be replaced by the following:For each period of mandatory accounting reporting, and not less than every four months, if not drawn up on an ongoing basis, it shall be possible to draw up:1. bookkeeping specification,2. account specification,3. customer specification,4. supplier specification,5. specification of withdrawals for owners, participants and own activities,6. specification of sales to owners and participants;7. specification of sales and other benefits to executives; in addition, if not prepared on an ongoing basis, for each period of mandatory accounting reporting, it shall be possible to prepare:1. specification of VAT;2. specification of benefits to be paid.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e2313	For Section 13, there are two different proposals. That is proposal No. 3 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification Proposal No 1 of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, reads as follows: «Booking law § 13(9) is replaced by the following:9. cash registers, gossip rolls or other types of copies of cash sales from the cash registers.» Proposal No. 5, from the Center Party and the Coast Party, says: ‘The first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 13 of the Accounting Act shall be replaced by the following: 1 to 4 shall be kept in Norway for five years after the end of the financial year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e2384	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 16 of the Accounting Act shall be replaced by the following:The Ministry may issue regulations supplementing the provisions of this Act. Where specific conditions relating to tax control in certain industries or industries make it specifically necessary, the Ministry may lay down additional requirements.’;» An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e2403	I could not vote. I should have voted for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e2410	Then there will be 56 votes for the vote and 11 votes for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e2535	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e2545	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21-lower.ana.ud1294e2556	There is no record.
