ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e28	The called alternate of the Vest-Agder counties, Mette Gundersen, has taken the seat. Mette Gundersen is proposed to be elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e40	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e45	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker and Anne Berit Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e50	Øyvind Halleraker and Anne Berit Andersen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker and Anne Berit Andersen are unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative of May Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e55	On behalf of the representatives Heikki Holmås, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik and myself, I would like to make a proposal to amend the law on child protection services and, where appropriate, other relevant laws so that the law applies to children who are Norwegian citizens and who live abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e60	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e83	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Odd Einar Dørum State Council Kristin Clamet State Council Torild Skogsholm The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Rolf Rekvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e102	I have a question for the Minister of Education. Following the tragic incident of the killings of the two Chinese youth, a system and a network of international agents have been discovered that buys and sells places in educational institutions. This is mainly the case in private educational institutions. The Norwegian State educational institutions do not use this system. They provide students in an ordinary way through their own network. My question to the Council of State is, does she see it as a problem that international agents communicate students in this way? These are private educational institutions that are largely supported by the state, so we can almost say that it is directly and indirectly government money that goes into the pockets of international agents. Does the Council of State see this as a problem? And is she interested in gripping this to try to limit the scope of this type of business?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e111	We do not have an accurate overview of how many students and students from China in particular are in Norway, but we assume that this is about. 500–700 Chinese students and students in this country, of which 300–400 are at universities and colleges. These have been granted a residence permit as a result of having received schooling or a place of study. In higher education, we have to assume that much is involved in organised exchanges, cooperation on scholarship programmes and relatively controlled schemes, including desired schemes, with a high degree of reciprocity and also with an aid element. In higher education institutions, admission is regulated. There shall be a maximum of 500 foreign students from outside the EEA territory, and that was a little less last year. In primary schools, and in particular in secondary schools, under the old private school law, there are no provisions governing this admission. I believe there are two questions that need to be addressed here. Firstly, in the context of the revision of the Law on Secondary Education, the number or criteria for admission of foreign students to higher education institutions should be regulated, because it cannot be a criterion simply that there is a falling recruitment in Norway. The second, and what we need to light up, is the agency that the representative Rikvam addresses. We cannot accept that students and students come to Norway on false premises, and it is revealed that there are bad agent activities. Now it has to be said that both the university and higher education community have taken the initiative to do something about this. But I believe that further action needs to be taken, and I have already taken the initiative to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e122	I thank you for the answer, but I don't feel that the Council of State is taking this seriously. It's an organized system, and maybe -- I might say -- also a criminal system, that communicates students in this way. As I said, this Norwegian educational institution is largely funded by public funds. In this way, public funds go into the pockets of agents, perhaps also in criminal environments, and then I think the serious question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State agree to use the grant as an instrument against these private institutions that use agents? That is, is she willing to withdraw, for example, the grant to private institutions that deliberately use agents to secure the recruitment of students to their institutions? We have the option if we want. We have the political means that we can use if we want. Therefore, in many ways the ball lies with the State Council in order to try to limit and try to stop this activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e131	The answer is that I am willing to assess limitations in the recruitment where there are no restrictions already, i.e. especially in secondary schools. I will consider this in the context of the revision of the Law on Secondary Education, because it cannot be the only criterion when recruiting from abroad, that you have a falling internal search in Norway. It has not been the intention of the State aid. The second thing I want to go into, in cooperation with the educational institutions, is the agency itself. The fact that there is an intermediary activity is not illegal. We need that. But we need to make sure that there is such good information for the students and students who are recruited, that they are not recruited on false premises, that of course nothing criminal is going on, and that they do not have to pay huge amounts to get recruited to Norway. We're going into all of this. The educational institutions themselves do a lot, but I have taken the initiative to cooperate with the educational institutions on this to bring about the unfortunate agency business.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e140	There will be four follow-up questions – first Lena Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e143	The internationalisation of the education system is a desirable and desirable policy development. But many students doubt that they need to use relatively large portions of their study funding to buy private services from agents to find study places abroad. The students say that they do this because the study and career counselling they are offered at each university or university or high school is too poor or absent. A well-developed counselling service is needed. What will the Council of State do for these Norwegian students so that they can get a public good offer of counselling services in Norway and not pay expensive money to private agents?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e152	The main thing here is that they get good information in the country from which they leave, because they are not in Norway when they are recruited. And one of the things we want to do is to cooperate with the embassies in the countries that we're dealing with. In this case, there has been particular attention around China, and there we have collaborated with the Embassy in Beijing on an information package for Chinese students and students. It is already in progress, but I believe that this work should be intensified. We should also, in cooperation with the Public Higher Education Information Office, continue the information they have started and can become even better. We should pay particular attention to the need for adequate and accurate information to Chinese applicants, both about what the study places in Norway are and about what they are not. We also see cases of students coming to Norway who start secondary education, but who think they start in higher education. We should also find appropriate ways of assessing the so-called agency activity together with the universities and other stakeholders. I have to add that we cannot rule out the existence of legitimate agent activities. Agents and intermediary activities are carried out throughout education and training, including in Norway. An educational trade fair, for example, can be said to be an intermediary, and that must be allowed. But what we want to do is that this system is being abused. We will cooperate on this with Norwegian educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e162	Rune J. Skjälaa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e165	This is probably about the student struggles of the study places. And then we see a lot of different developments. What we see here in Norway is that heavy places of study use a lot of resources to advertise their place of study to hijack the students. I see a danger that small study sites are just losing in this competition. How does the Minister of Education assess this negative development?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e170	This was the second part of my answer instead, and it is most relevant. As far as higher education is concerned, I believe there is a clear policy, which is agreed here in Stortinget, that we want internationalisation, cross-border exchanges for mutual benefit and joy. We also want an exchange that has an aid element in it. I feel that it is reasonably controlled. In the case of higher education institutions, it is also the case that the ideology of higher education institutions suggests that there is a positive international element, but here, there is a ceiling on the number that can be recruited – and that has happened in the past – outside the EEA area. There is no such restriction with regard to former private schools, now called boarding schools. So we're going to consider that, because it can't be that just failing recruitment at home should justify launching major recruitment campaigns out there if there's no other reason. In my opinion, there has not been any intention of the Stortinge with the support schemes put in place for private educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e181	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e184	The councils can probably confirm that the cases we know from the media apply to both private institutions and public-owned institutions, because we have known cases from the higher education system where the government is the owner. The government can probably also confirm more than what she said, namely that in addition to the fact that there is a quota within the higher education system, it has actually not been exploited in recent years. I hope the Council of State can also confirm that the responsibility to make sure that students are aware of what to study, where to study, and that you do not have more space than at a given institution, also have to go the other way. We talk about student exchanges both in Norway and out of Norway. I believe it is equally important that the Council of State and the Ministry take responsibility for ensuring that Norwegian students abroad receive quality assurance, especially when the Government has changed the study funding system so that Norwegian students abroad no longer receive full scholarships, but must have loans in addition to scholarships to finance their place of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e193	I can confirm, as I also said in my very first post, that the quota for higher education schools has not been used in recent years. That's absolutely right. In the case of Norwegian students abroad, i.e. higher-level students, I feel that the circumstances here are reassuring in the sense that the quality reform of the exchange is going to be reciprocal, and that it is going to be based on institutional cooperation, that is. the conclusion by the Norwegian higher education institutions of cooperation with foreign educational institutions. It is happening in a global regime, where more and better quality assurance systems are being built up. I also believe that the new funding system for Norwegian students who travel abroad is such that it appeals to the students themselves to look for places of study that are of high quality, among other things. because the proportion is present and that it motivates them financially to look for such places of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e202	Vidar Bjørnstad - till last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e205	I agree with the Council of State that we need international student exchange. It has to go both ways, both Norwegian students abroad and foreign students here to our institutions. I think it is positive that the Council of State has taken up some of the negative results that have been revealed in the last round of the tragic event that was mentioned, among others. in relation to the number of students, both roads and agent activities. The council said she had the impression that this was going on in controlled forms. I just want to make sure that the Council of State will actually go through this and make sure that it matches reality, get a complete overview. Much of the exchange is left to the institutions themselves. I would like to ask if the Council of State believes that more national and international driving rules are actually needed in terms of student exchange, because education has become a more international commodity since then.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e214	When I said ‘consoling’ forms, I referred to higher education. I believe that this magnification has laid very clear framework conditions for internationalisation and that activity. It is clearly expressed from this magnification that it is desirable, but that there should be reciprocity in it. We are also now establishing in Bergen a centre for the internationalisation of higher education. In the case of higher education, as I said, there are rules, and they've got it. But I think this is an area for closer study. Especially in relation to higher education and higher education institutions, as well as the agency activities, which in and of all schools and places of study use, there may be grounds for looking at this. In connection with the tragic killing case recently, I have to add that it doesn't seem necessarily, as someone feared, to be related to the school case. With regard to the special school case, there are other irregularities that have caused the Ministry, long before it appeared in the media, to take the initiative in December for a meeting between the county and the ministry, where we raised questions relating to accounts, student lists, the number of foreign students, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e223	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e226	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. There are people around the country who will soon see the Minister of Transport in the box and wonder, how is my road going? Do we get a clean-up in the accident-stricken distance in the vicinity of us? We're gonna fix the racial protection? Do we get new asphalt on our stupid road? In recent years, there has been a lot of talk about more money. But 14 days ago, Lars Aksnes, Development Director of the Directorate of Roads, said that we now get half as much money as we did ten years ago, 1 km for the same thing that we got ten years ago 2 km for. This is less, no more, pay for the money. Does the Council have a comment on that? What would it do to get more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e236	It is a goal for this government that we will get more money back for the money that we put into the budget for this very purpose. I have to remind you that we all agree that we should have a higher security. We have a zero vision that it should be zero seriously damaged and killed on Norwegian roads. It's a very demanding vision to work for, but we're working for it. That means that we set different standards on the roads we now build, than what we did 10-20 years ago. That means we're taking the zero vision seriously. We make higher demands on what we will get back of quality on the roads, so that we can avoid an unfortunate accident. We have taken action to ensure that we get more money back for the money that goes over the road budget. It is not least about the major shifts in the state road system and the division we have made between production and management. In the past, there has been a fairly close link, not to say a mix, between what goes on in clean management and production. Now we've separated this, so we're clearer than before can see what we're actually spending money on. I would also like to stress that I know that everyone is excited about what is going to be the policy of this government in the future in terms of both road, rail and aviation, and ports and shipping for that matter. We'll come back to Stortinget with the National Transport Plan in less than a terrible time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e247	I thank you for your answer. This is more than a guarantee requirement. It's clear that it's serious that you get half as much back for the money when you say that the opposite is the goal. I hope the answer to the government council doesn't mean that she was satisfied with the state, that we're getting enough money now. The migration process in the Road Administration as mentioned by the Council of State was sold under the heading: More road for money. For example, No sees me. in the case of road maintenance, that we were told in the first place that we had 20-25 pst. more maintenance of the money when we put off competition. The last thing I've heard is 10 pst. And when we ask critically about it, it also doesn't include all of the costs of the new system. It gives me a sense that we don't get any more road maintenance for the money with the new way to organize it. So we're going to get less money, and we're going to get less road maintenance for the money. I really hope that the Council of State will come back to this offensively when the national transport plan is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e254	I can assure you that we will be offensive. We're going to have more roadway for the means we're putting away for road use. I've got per. There is no indication today that the changes that we have started should not result in more money. But I also take it as given that we agree fairly on the zero vision, at least I've understood it this way before. That there are completely different standards, it's pretty easy to go back and look at. We can travel around the country and see that the standard on roads that are built a lot of time back is perhaps not the best and may not be good enough in relation to the zero vision, while the roads that we build today, where there is another standard, have to meet safety requirements other than the requirements of the roads that were built a good many decades ago. Fortunately, we have a big name, because we need it here in the country, but we also have to have a standard that's good enough in terms of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e259	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bjørgov Froyn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e262	On 17 January 2002, the Council of State gave a lecture to the machinery contractors and told them what emphasis this government would place on the construction and maintenance of new roads. More money was promised for roads, but now we are told that road manufacturing is so that we get half as much for the money as we did ten years ago. At the same time, we know that we have a deficit of SEK 1.5 billion in relation to the national transport plan. So we're facing a situation where we're getting less money, and we're getting less money. My question is, is it not a policy that has failed in relation to the objectives set?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e269	I'm actually a little surprised to get this question from the Labour Party, the party with which we actually have a budgetary settlement, and where we've added 700 million. € more in the 2004 budget than we had in the 2003 budget. In the case of the claim that we set aside less money, the Workers' Party should be the party that knew best that this was not the case. I also want to say something about it that we get less money back. I have already responded to what is going on in safety. Several representatives in this house know that we are very eager to have a good standard on Norwegian roads. We're going to have roads that keep in time, they're going to be silent, and they're going to have a safety that's so that you can be reasonably safe if you're driving responsibly otherwise. That means that there is another type of road that is being built today than 10 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e276	Jorunn Ringstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e279	When the Council of State says that, compared to last year, we've got hundreds of millions more on the road or on the road, it's probably true, but it doesn't help much when you compare with that year, it's a historically low year when it comes to means of transport. What is a fact is that before the reform of the State Road Service, i.e. the transformation of the production department into a limited liability company, about half of the construction projects were on offer. Now, the entire production of plant on offer, and we know that it won't be cheaper now than it was before. This can be confirmed by the State Road Administration. What kind of grip does the Council of State have to take to give one more way to the money now than one did before? State councils were also in their response and talked about the importance of securing roads. [[President clubs]] It's also an important area. [[The President clubs.]] There are many places where you can get a little more local control with how to do this. shall use centre rebates. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]] Will the Council of State open it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e288	The President shall draw attention to the fact that speaking time is to be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e291	We would like to spend a lot of time discussing when the historically lowest year for the appropriations for transportation was. I record that in this government we have increased the budget evenly from the budget we took over after the Stoltenberg government. So in relation to the fact that there isn't going to be any cheaper offers now than before: we don't know that until we go out into the market and see. In the past, there have been many entrepreneurs who have wanted to be in the market but who have never had the opportunity. Now they have the option. Local entrepreneurs with good competence have finally been given the opportunity to participate in this competition, and they may be a corrective factor to the only market we knew before, which was the manufacturing activity of the State Road Administration. They do a good job, but I think there are others who can both do a good job, and who would like to be in this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e298	Kenneth Svendsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e302	Competition between companies is likely to lead to lower prices, but it is also true that today's type of road construction, with the construction of a quadruple road, is more expensive than it was ten years ago. There is also an interesting debate between the Workers' Party and the government parties, which argues that more money should be spent, but where both parties propose the same thing as before and thus no more money. It's also said by the Council of State that you have a zero vision. So far, 36 people have been killed in traffic, compared to 31 last year. Only in February, 20 people were killed in traffic, 17 in front collisions – i.e. where you could have saved them with a four-field road and a middle one. Then the question is, if it is that we get less road construction for the money today than ten years ago, why aren't there significantly more resources in road construction so that we can end these fatal accidents in traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e309	Whatever we do on the road safety side in relation to building new roads with or without middle parts, we will be able to solve part of the problem, but not all of it. The last thing that matters is how careful each car list is in traffic. It is such that when you sit behind the steering wheel, you have a fairly large responsibility for yourself, for those you have in the car, and for the others you meet on your way. It is not that we in Norway, with the traffic base we have, can build four-field roads with middle parts everywhere where there are meeting accidents. Accidents at meetings, road accidents and accidents in relation to vulnerable road users are the most serious accidents that we are concentrating on, but we are unable to deal with them alone and alone by building wider roads with middle parts. In general, we need to have a society where everyone takes responsibility for road safety, and it's about far broader measures than just middle parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e314	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e317	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Political agreements are an essential part of the political activity. It is also about building political credibility and interaction. In the autumn of 2002, the Progress Party made a budgetary settlement with the Government Parties. Among the priorities that were agreed were: increased border control on the route Eastfold up to Hedmark. Of the tool that was to be used to get this better, there were some special built vehicles planned. After what I have reason to believe, these vehicles are not in use. On the contrary, I have heard rumors that they are standing down in the Hedmark. I would like the Minister of Justice to confirm that this is the case. If that were actually the case, I would like to know if the Minister of Justice thinks it is a proper way to follow up a political agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e326	I confirm that it has been proposed to have a border control within the Schengen border. I've looked at the vehicles myself. It is not known to me, the representative mentioned, and I have not received any information about it, but of course I will check it. We don't deserve equipment to be used, and especially not when it's dedicated to both a state council and top management in the police department. As I do not have detailed knowledge of that, I will of course also check up on that question. I will see to it that the representative receives an appropriate response.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e331	Of course, I appreciate that, and it is reassuring that the minister should check this out. I understand that this is likely to lead to great frustration outside the police force who feel that they are now struggling with – to use the Minister’s own words – a very tight budgetary framework. In addition, when you end up in a situation where you can't actually use the tools you're supposed to do a job, probably because of formal circumstances, it just increases frustration. Does the Minister of Justice agree that it is not appropriate for those who are going to do the job, but also for others, for such situations to occur?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e338	Now the representative takes on the basis of something that he has heard, and that I have said I will check. Since you're going to be very accurate on the Great Council's pulpit, especially as the Council of State, I'm going to do it. But, of course, I'm assuming that efforts at the frontier are being carried out. That is a premise on the part of the Ministry of Justice. I can tell you that the alien unit that the police have set up has made it more efficient, for example. all procedures relating to both the registration and the removal of asylum seekers. So it's at least in an area within a field of interest that's common to everyone in this room, including the representative and me, and it seems that the measures have led. But border controls are important, not only to stop human smuggling, but also to combat crime. We know that it's effective, especially when you're working with other agencies. I myself have been involved in such checks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e345	There will be follow-up questions – Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e348	One day we hear that the Stortinget decides to train the police. The second day we hear that we do not have the money to fill jobs. The next day we hear that the police have to sell equipment to balance the operation. Then we hear that equipment is purchased for border control, which we don't have the resources to use. In the next round we hear that we have had a reform to make the police more visible, especially in the districts. And the next day we hear that's not the case. Then we hear that the reason why there is a lack of police in the districts and in the streets is that one has a redefinition of the police role, that personnel serving the central table are now operational police officers out. My question to the Council of State is: What credibility does the Government have, and what credibility does the Council of State have, in relation to prioritizing and strengthening the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e355	Now we have the police budget, majority in Stortinget – with the exception of the Progress Party. It is also a fact that the police have redeployed posts for visible and public activities. But as I've said in Stortinget before, it's approx. half of the re-disposal eaten by the fifth holiday week. Where the police have been deliberately involved, e.g. in the fight against violence, it has produced good results, including at home. Here in the Oslo centre it has also given very good results in the fight against handkerchiefs. But I've never concealed that it's a tight budget. The representative took up a couple of details. The police boat in Bodø is mentioned in the media, but there is no crisis situation associated with it. I have been informed that with regard to the boat in question in Bodø, it is the opinion of the local police officer that there is a boat that is not in use and that can only be used indoors. And with some knowledge of the part of the country, I would say that it's probably not the most suitable boat to use right there, but elsewhere it's good inland waters. As far as the police students are concerned, I have been told that there are 160 people who are going to retire in the police this year. We have a tight budgetary situation, and that's why I want to follow the budget carefully, because we don't deserve positions empty and police don't have jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e366	Gunn Karin Gjul – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e370	There is no doubt that the situation in the police and the use of resources is the subject of an important debate. However, in recent years the police have been the major budget winner. They have received several billion more kroner at their disposal in the last six to seven years, and with this added over 2,000 new jobs. Nevertheless, the situation is made as a completely different one. And it is the Minister of Justice who is responsible for the police and the management of the use of police money. My questions are: Is the Minister of Justice satisfied with the situation? Is he satisfied with the way the money is spent in the police? And does the Minister of Justice have any views in a more effective way of using the funds the police have already received?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e377	First, will show that the police reform that is now being carried out was launched by a workers' party government, which sold it in a way that I, as a wholesaler, did not go well for. However, I have loyally defended the reform in order to get results out of it. What happens in the police is a significant build-up of competences. The police have been good, for example. to expose domestic violence, and a comprehensive administration of the establishment has been established. Because we're going to learn, there's going to be an evaluation of the reform during this year. The evaluation will also lead to audience surveys in all police districts. I have also asked that the police officers in their districts contact local politicians to measure the impact of what is happening. Then, too, with the efforts of the police, it's right that the representative says they've got increased resources. At the same time, however, we have also had a more challenging picture of crime, for example. we are still getting reports that the police must act quite manpower, because there are heavy criminals in very serious cases. We have therefore agreed with the Directorate of Police that we should have an independent review of resource use, so that the facts that exist should be on the table. We're all good at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e386	No Marte Thorkildsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e389	I know that the Council of State is familiar with a letter written to him in secret from his colleague Jan Petersen. Here Petersen asks that badly needed police resources be taken from the Oslo population and given to the U.S. Embassy, contrary to all police professional judgements. This was done by the State Council, Dørum, and the result is that last year 121 million were spent. kr on embassy guard in the capital. Is the Council of State comfortable with such resource use in a situation where the police have a very tight economy, and where the Government is otherwise very much interested in improving the efficiency of the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e394	According to the Vienna Convention, a state has a duty to protect embassies from other countries, and the one who has commented on this in a way that I think is entirely satisfactory, is the police director, who has shown that the police have made an assessment that also takes into account how those who work in these embassies experience working there. I would also like to add that Norway is one of the few countries in the world on the Al-Qaeda terrorist list. It happened in May last year. By also including the location of the embassies in the reservation, as the police director said, she believed that everything had been put up for a system that was in place. I have nothing to add or subtract from such an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e399	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e402	I have a question for the Minister of Education. Right went to the choice to make school better. Now we're in the third year with the school councils from the Right. We have a lot of knowledge about the school, among other things. through the evaluation of reform 97. The centre party looks forward to the treatment of an alerted survey message where new approaches can be taken to create a better school. But, according to the primary education information system, there has been evidence of a decline in resources for public schools in recent years. Biggest are the cuts this year. School life is becoming more difficult for both students and teachers. Number of teacher hours per. Pupils are falling, it is becoming more difficult to share student groups and less time for adapted training. 112 schools have closed down, largely for economic reasons, in recent years, and the state of many school buildings is poor. Is this development in line with the right-hand schooling?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e407	I'm not at all sorry about what we've done in the school area. I believe that we have implemented very much correctly and very much important that benefits the school, and I also record that there has actually been a great deal of agreement in this room on the measures and proposals we have implemented in the field of school. And then there's a big, important thing that the representative of the Kschlala had in mind, and that's the big message that we're presenting to the Stortinget in a very short time, where we're going to discuss important issues in particular regarding the content and structure of initial training. In the case of resource use, it is true that there has been a slight decrease in recent years, but the overall picture is that resource use in Norwegian schools is relatively stable. We have about the world's highest resource use. The main reason for the high level of resource use is that we have a high level of teacher density. That's about. 11 students per year. at primary school in Norway, which is entirely at the top of the world. It's just Denmark that's over it, and then just at the nursery. That's a very positive news, because in my opinion the teachers are the absolutely most important source of getting to a better school. Teachers are the most important resource. It's not just a floss. I guess I can yell so much that if we're going to bet on school in the time that comes, I think one of the most important things we can bet on is to improve the skills of the teachers, and I also have to draw attention to the fact that the need for teacher recruitment becomes quite great in the years that come. So I'm satisfied with what's done. There has been a change of system which means much greater freedom of action for schools and school owners, and we have put much more emphasis on quality in education and training itself, cf. inter alia: the efforts made in literacy, in Norwegian, in real subjects, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e414	I hear the Minister of Education says she's satisfied, even if the resources go down. It's a surprise. I'll give you an example: in Bergen we have Fridalen school. There's 445 students. It cannot afford to clean up the municipality, so these 445 students are to be divided into two or three other schools. It means more in each class/student group, less opportunity for adapted training, more pupils per. teachers, larger and less transparent, environments. And in Bergen it is actually the Right who rules, along with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Does she think it's a good development that a school of 445 students should not have the right to life?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e419	Some of the joyous things that have happened in the last few years is that we have gained much more knowledge of Norwegian school, that we have also learned that there are no automatic links between small changes in resource use and quality. It's very clear that there's not so much else to discuss anymore, because you generally agree and are satisfied with what the government has done in the field of school policy, and all you have to do is return to the resource debate. But I want to say two things: I followed the election campaign in front of the last big shot. Then there were two questions that were central to all the political parties. It was that there was a need for a resource promise when it came to the salaries of the teachers – I fully agreed – and a resource promise was needed when it came to school construction. Both parts have been followed up to the point and the dot during this magnification period. Teachers have been given a strong paylift, most well deserved, and there has also been a lot of effort on school construction through the loan scheme. However, the efficiency gain foreseen as a result of this pay gap has not been removed, and it is temporarily narrowing for schools in terms of other resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e424	There will be three follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e428	The Council of State says that the issue of resources remains, and it is not exactly an immaterial question for those who today feel that special education is being reduced, that schools are being laid down, that teaching material is being reduced, and that the physical learning environment is still very poor. It is possible that the Right is well satisfied with what they have done after the election campaign in relation to the elections they gave. I'm not sure the parents who feel that their children are struggling in a poor learning environment today, and the municipalities that see themselves forced to lay down schools are just as satisfied as the council of state in their self-satisfaction. The question remains: were there these relationships, as parents, municipalities and teachers today experience in the schools, for which the Right joined the 2001 election campaign, and what does the Right intend to do to solve the not insignificant resource issue, which also remains, until the next elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e433	I'm not saying that the resource question is immaterial, but I'm recording that it's the only opposition that can discuss. It is clear that Norwegian school has a very high level of resources. I believe it is a strong exaggeration to talk about the fact that the physical learning environment in Norway is very poor. It's among the best, probably. We have the world's highest teacher density. There's a lot of work going on, if you measure resource use in dollars, to increase teacher pay and to improve school buildings. In the years to come, there will be even more effort, because we are going to implement reforms in terms of content and structure. We get a student development that requires it, so I think these are strong and 'dramatic' exaggerations. I see that the representative Arnstad is shaking his head, and it disturbs me a little bit, but I have to admit that I think there are strong exaggerations, and that there is a lot of good going on in Norwegian school. In fact, the black paint for which the opposition now turns into a spokesman has also left the Education Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e440	Eva M. Nielsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e443	My business is the weakest students in the classes. When we discuss school, it's often about municipal economy, but it's a fact that there's less resources in school now than we've had in previous times. Governments have previously stated that there is no immediate link between resources and results. My question is: does not the State Council share the concern of the Workers' Party for those students who need special education? And doesn't the Council of State, in the economic situation in which the municipalities are now, see that in the field of special education, there is a connection between efforts, resources and results?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e450	I think it is almost ready for the Workers' Party to address the question. This is where we've been investing in the single school and they've been so weak for years. There's been a lot of effort on resources. You haven't been so interested in what came out of school, but very much about what you put in. What we've learned in the last two years is that Norway stands out negatively on one very important point, namely that we have a different school. There are large and systematic differences between students in Norwegian school, and they are systematic in the sense that they are between sex, they are between minority and majority, they depend on the parental background, etc., and we have a very large group of low-skilled students. I want to say that the main objective of the Government for its school policy is that we should provide better adapted training for each individual and also give them a weak chance to stretch out of their abilities and talents.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e459	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e462	It was a very strong claim that the resource situation is the only opposition to discuss. I feel that time and again we are also trying to discuss the content of the school. Four months ago, we dealt with a big message about the resource situation, that's right. It lasted until 2002 and showed, among other things: that there was a decrease from 1997, and especially in the last year, 2002. We have reason to believe, based on what we know, that this decline in the resource situation has continued. We have reason to believe that. Last year we decided to cancel the class division number, and in this connection the Swedish Government took part in a decision in which we said that the municipalities should provide resources as if the class division number were still there. We have received feedback indicating that some municipalities do not follow up on this, and my question to the Council of State is: Has she received the same feedback? And if that's the case, in what way will she follow up on this, so that the suspension of the class division is not used to save resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e471	Let me make it clear that resources are not immaterial. I think it's very good that we're in the top of the world, and there I want us to still lie. And as for my statement about the opposition, I'm actually going to make a small exception for Rolf Rekvam. With regard to the Storting's decision to allocate resources as if the classification rules exist, I am fully aware of that. We have had a very thorough dialogue with the county council and with the county education department. I have not received information that this is not being followed up, but I will bring it back and check further. Of course, I have the intention to follow the decision of Storting on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e478	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e481	My question also goes to the Minister of Education. First, I'd like to allow myself to make a little correction to the Government's answer to the previous main question. Because I think it's a pretty bad claim when the Council of State stands here and says that the Workers' Party has not at all been interested in what came out of school. It was precisely the Workers' Party that put down the Quality Committee, and their work now gives Stortinget an immediate opportunity to go through, so that we can raise the quality of the Norwegian school. I take note that the Council of State doesn't like to talk about the resource situation, and the government, together with the majority of the population, has gone in to cancel the class division. When the Odelstinge dealt with this matter on 12 June 2003, the Council of State said: ‘In my view, changing the classification rules is obviously sensible... we are not doing this to establish new traditional classes that are much larger. Let's do it for other reasons. We do it... in order to make and exploit the actual adult and teacher density in a constructive way...» But don't the Council of State now see that there's pressure because of a bad local economy, and that there's less learning for our children if there's fewer adults per. student?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e495	No, there'll be more adults per day. students when changing the classification rules as we did. If you ask a parent in Norway today, how many students there are per year. Teacher, I think a lot of people would say it's 28, but it's not. That's about. 11 students per year. teacher, and it varies between steps. The number is also lower in higher steps. What has been achieved in very many schools, even hundreds of schools in Norway, where classification rules have been abandoned, as experimentation – often leaving the working time agreement as a test activity – is working with students in more flexible groups. This is partly to provide students with better-adapted training, and partly to enable teachers to work in teams and to have a social and professional community, and for each teacher to be responsible for fewer students. In those schools where it happens, it is quite common that teachers can be responsible for 10-12, max 15, students instead of 28. So this is to come to life what many people call the ‘settal styrannie’ in Norwegian school: one teacher, one class, one hour, one subject. Everyone understands that it must be quite tiring for a teacher to be alone in a classroom with 28 students and tackle both the professional and social there. So to solve this, to the benefit of both students and teachers, we changed the classification rules. This is now spreading in Norwegian school and is already taking place in many hundreds of schools. SINTEF has also evaluated this research where it has taken place, and it is a very positive evaluation, which shows that everyone is more satisfied. It concerns school leaders, school owners, teachers, students and parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e508	The quality committee has presented its position, and one of the proposals there is precisely that we should arrange the classes in a different way through basic groups of twelve students. There's something the Workers' Party thinks is positive, and we're for each school to have the opportunity to organise their school days in a much more freer way. But what is important to us is that we are sure that there will be enough resources for learning, and that the changes we are now making – and as the Stortinget has already decided before we get the opportunity to deal with the position of the Quality Committee – do not mean that the municipalities are doing this as a purely savings measure, not of evil will, but because there are no resources out in the municipalities, and thus there will be pressure on every single place. Then the question to the Council of State is whether she is not concerned about that development, in the light of what she said in Odelstinget when we dealt with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e515	Karita Bekkemelm Orheim has not understood the quality committee's proposal if she thinks they're proposing to reorganize the classes in a different way. They don't suggest classes. They propose flexible basic groups, not fixed basic groups, not new classification rules. It has been specified time and time again by the director of the sample. Thus, what the Quality Committee proposes is exactly the same – in a slightly different way – as the Stortinget has adopted, but as the Workers' Party voted against, that the students could be organised in educationally sound groups, as expressed in the law, in flexible groups, in smaller groups. When the Quality Committee has set a limit of 12 students, they themselves have expressed that there is no random limit. It actually lies a little above what is the teacher's density in Norway today. So this flexible organization with basic groups of twelve students is possible, and it is carried out in many hundreds of schools in Norway. Whether I can assure you that there will be enough resources for learning? Yes, I can assure you. The striking thing is that countries that spend much less resources on learning actually get more learning out of them. We must also be interested in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e522	For temporal reasons, the President only permits two follow-up questions. Eva M. Nielsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e527	This debate has clearly shown that there is a different perception in this room of teacher density, of the learning environment, of the consequences of the government's school policy and of the change we have seen within the school structure. Governments have often said here in the Chamber that she is concerned with facts and knowledge and knowing what really underlies the situation before we change things. I think that has been very good. In view of the situation we are in, will the Council of State come to the Grand Duchy with an evaluation of the reforms we have implemented, to see what the consequences have been for the students, for the teachers and for the school environment? And when could such an evaluation possibly be available in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e534	If the question is asked here, an evaluation of the many proposals the Government has promoted and adopted and partially implemented during this period, it is natural to see it in the context of the changes that will occur as a result of the big picture we are presenting. The norm in Norwegian school and Norwegian policy is that all such reforms are evaluated. But if you're going to have a research evaluation, take it a little bit of time, so just when we get back with it, I can't say here on the stand. The normal thing in Norway is that when reforms are carried out of a certain importance and extent, research-based evaluation is also under way, as we have now done with regard to quality reforms in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e541	Arne Sortevik - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e544	The anxiety messages about the physical learning environment are still too many of the concerns that rightly point to the fact that the training law’s demands on the physical learning environment for pupils continue to be broken in a large way. The example from Bergen with the Fridalen school, a large school that the owner, the municipality of Bergen, chooses to lay down because you don't have the funds for refurbishment, emphasizes that this is still a difficult and unresolved situation. In the course of the last debate on the throne, one of the proposals of the Progress Party was adopted with the votes of the government parties. It was just about getting the Stortinget a review of the maintenance situation in primary and secondary schools. I'm asking for that feedback. We need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e551	It is quite clear that while Norway is probably in a situation where the physical learning environment is very well measured against other countries, there is too much to be done. When it comes to school construction, we talk about decades of neglect in some municipalities. It takes time to fix it. Many municipalities are doing a lot of positive now for their own machine. In addition, we have the state loan arrangement. But I've been concerned that we have to prevent this from happening again. That is why, in consultation with the local government minister, I have contributed to the creation of a public body to look at possible system changes in municipal construction with a view to preventing it from happening again. In the light of the Progress Party initiative to get an overview of the actual situation, this sample was given an additional mandate to provide such an analysis. I don't recall the deadline for this in a hurry, but I think it's March – I have to take a little reservation there. That's for us to get a better picture than we've got through some reports in the media and from organizations that might have a slightly different interest than giving a sober assessment of the maintenance needs. But we're going to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e556	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e559	The Norwegian railway is at a crossroads. There are good reasons to claim that it is starving. Naturverförbundet shows that if you had invested a little bit more on the infrastructure side, you could have increased rail traffic by 70 pst. on the heaviest distances. At the same time, we see that our neighbouring countries are now making a heavy effort on the railways. Sweden is going to spend 100 billion kroner in the next ten years modernizing a railway that is already initially better than ours. They've started. Railways are being built. One of the great successes is the railway between Eskilstuna and Stockholm, where you have managed to increase the proportion of people travelling by rail, from 6 pst. up to 30 pst. last year. These are amazing numbers, which should have been possible in Norway as well. So far we don't have this development here. Can the Council of State see any reason why we in Norway should not be able to do the same thing here, as the Swedes do in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e566	It's a significant point with the railway that we have to let it get ground where it has its advantage, and that's what the bet is on this government. We've had a solid investment on the railway compared to what we've been doing in the past. If we compare with previous governments that have also supported SV, we see that we had not been able to refer to such a railway operation that this government can refer to. Then, in the near future, a national transport plan will be presented, in which, of course, the policy also for the railway sector will be outlined. It will be an important principle for us to continue to succeed with the intention of the railway, to provide a good transport offer, and to use the railway as an instrument in environmental policy, we need to bet on the railway where the railway has its advantage. And then I have to say that it is with pleasure that I record that, after seeing a decline in traffic on the railways in Norway, we now see a growth. We see a growth in the near traffic around Oslo, where we really have the major environmental challenges. We see increase elsewhere. We see an increase in traffic on Eastfold. We also see an increase in traffic in other parts of the Norwegian railway network. This means that this government's policy may help to make the railway more punctual, and that the infrastructure is gradually becoming so that you can see that it is a win to pick up – you have a good rail service, and people actually want to travel by rail. That's the policy we want. We want to facilitate good and environmentally friendly rail transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e574	I could have understood the Council of State's posts if I had stood here and said it was the North Norwegian Railway I was going to build tomorrow. But what this is about – and for which there is no money on the infrastructure side of Norwegian railway today – is whether we can get a double track to Ski before 2015 or not! So lean, it's on the infrastructure side. I was quite surprised when I read the Newspaper last week, where the State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport says: ‘The distortion or substantiation of the railway has in fact lasted fifty years. We are fully aware that more money is needed for trains and railways, but we see that we are not able to get more out to the railways of Stortinget». We just have to be quite clear that if the Government wants to promote a major effort in the context of the national transport plan, so that the railway becomes the modern means of entry where the railway has its advantage, it is the majority of it on the Stortinget. We promise the Council of States that we will make sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e586	The fact that we spend $6 billion on rail in Norway is a pretty solid investment in a country like Norway. There's every reason to look at the investment in Sweden on the line network they have per year. Kilometres per km. is based in the country, and compares it with Norway. Then we'll probably, I think, soon find out that the railway operation in Norway is pretty good. The largest construction project we have in mainland Norway is a railway project between Sandvika and Asker. The largest construction project we have here in the country is a new double track, just to solve the bottleneck we have on the railway. The fact that we can take such important pieces is precisely what can help us to have better rail transport services and a better environmental impact. So I'm interested in and eager to have a good railway policy, and I'm looking forward to the debate on the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e593	One follow-up question is now allowed – Geir-Ketil Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e596	The Council of State says that there has been a stake on the railways in this government more than in any other government. How, then, can the Council explain that in 2001 the aged budget showed that 38 p.m. of the transport budget went to the railway? In the 2003 budget, a share is less than 30 pst. 28 pst. – by the State budget for the railway sector. So this is a significant decrease. We spend a lot less on rail in 2003 than before this government joined. The question goes on from Arnfinn Ellingsen's statement that you will not get more railway out of Stortinget; Stortinget is not willing to grant any more. SV has proposed a further DKK 1 billion for each of the last years – SEK 970 million. DKK in 2004. There's a majority on the Storting to bet on the railroad, if the Government will. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: When the Government is about to present the National Transport Plan, prioritisation of transport until 2016, will the Government bet on the majority of the Railway Biggest?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e603	Now it is the case that not the majority, nor the government, have the money that SV has. SV likes to have a couple of billions that others of us are looking for trapped to find, and that we don't have. That is the reality we must deal with, and one cannot then claim that this government has not invested in the railways. Then I'm going to ask the representative to go back and look at the last 20 years' budgets on the railway side. If we ignore the action on the Gardermoban, we can take that discussion afterwards. This government has invested more on the railway than the workers' party governments that SV has supported. I have to say that is a solid commitment, and we would like to discuss future railway policy further when we have presented a national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e608	Then we go to the last main question. For the sake of time, follow-up questions will not be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e611	Thank you, President. It was good it was time for the question. It goes to the Minister of Education. On 23 September 2002, Prime Minister Bondevik started the biggest offensive against bullying in Norwegian school. Together with the Minister of Education and the Children’s Ombudsman, he promised that by 23 September 2004, all bullying in school would end. About a year and a half of the two years the Prime Minister has told him to use him to end the bullying in Norwegian school. Some have been done, some have been done. In Oslo, it's "only" 10 pst. by the students who are being bullied. My question to the Minister of Education is: Although the Council of State does not interpret the Prime Minister's promise as a guarantee, how and when will the Council of State inform the Council of its efforts to combat bullying in school and the results of such efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e620	First, I have to make it clear that the promise as it was said that the Prime Minister has given up is not correctly reproduced. What he has said is that he hopes that we will get there that no child in school will be able to be bullied and harassed for a long time without any adults seeing it and intervening. It's a vision he has, and such a vision I think you must have. Of course, removing bullying and bullying from Earth's surface is not realistic. But it's possible to have a vision of prevention, and you have to make sure you have systems, so you intervene. The work we have undertaken is very extensive. It is based on a multi-party effort – teachers, children’s representatives, parents’ committees, etc. Extensive measures are being implemented in Norwegian schools. The good thing about it is that in Norway we have the leading research communities in the world both in researching the presence of bullying and in researching effective measures, which are not stunted measures, but measures that work on a sustainable basis. We cooperate with these environments. This is particularly true of the Olweus Centre at the University of Bergen and the Centre for Behavioral Research in Stavanger. There's a huge effort being made around the schools. We have two ways to verify the result. One is that we have started a research evaluation of the actions undertaken. And once we have the results of the evaluation – we have not yet, it is Rogaland’s research that stands for it – we will, of course, adjust the measures depending on what results we get. The second is that we can go into the concrete schools that have completed e.g. The Olweus program. There we can already see that there is a sharp decrease in the amount of bullying, in the order of 40-50 pst. We got yesterday or yesterday news from the Oslo Schools that bullying is also greatly reduced in the Oslo Schools. In fact, the efforts now being made by Norway raise international awareness. This has led Norway to organise the first OECD conference on anti- bullying in school later this year. I have also seen that the Danish Minister of Education now appears to be learning from Norway and carrying out a similar work. I have great faith that this will work for the positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e631	This government has created strategies and action plans for many things — for real science, for reading, for the integration of linguistic minorities. Why don't we get a strategy plan to combat bullying in school, and why don't we get a report to the Bigton about work?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e636	There are several plans. It was a plan for the bullying work for 2003, and recently I also saw that the plan for 2004 had come. It has a slightly different format than the plans it was referred to instead, but there are such plans. It has to be said that this work, unlike the work on the real-life plan, is a slightly larger effort, where more parties are doing something. Of course, I have nothing against reporting to Stortinget. This may be done by means of the annual budgets, which may be referred to in other documents. You can also think of a separate document at a later stage, but then I recommend that you get a little bit further with the research evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e643	The time for the oral questioning process is now over – and so it is. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e650	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 2 from Trine Skei Grande and Morten Höglund, respectively, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, are postponed to the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 5, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries as the right person. At the request of the Minister for Fisheries, the question is moved and answered before question 20, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 13, from the representative of Mr Hedstrom to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has been removed. Question 14, from the representative Sigbjørn Molvik to the Minister for Agriculture, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 17, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. Question 22, from the representative of Bjørn Lothe to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has left. Question 26, from the representative of Mr Ingvild Vaggen Malvik to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 27, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for the Environment, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e695	Questions 1 and 2 are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e701	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: «In accordance with Section 47 of the Financial Contracts Act, long-term liabilities are required to rob borrowers of borrowing if the borrower so warrants. Is it so that many of the long-term products that offer easily available high-interest consumer loans have procedures to deal with loan applications that prevent them from fulfilling their obligation to raw borrowers not to raise loans, and what might the Council do to ensure that these long-term products comply with their obligation not to raise loans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e715	Initially, I would like to mention that the Financial Contracts Act belongs to the Ministry of Justice. However, the credit supervision has a general responsibility to ensure that the institutions it supervises operate in an appropriate and orderly manner in accordance with the law and regulations provided for by law, including the Financial Contracts Act. The question has been submitted to the Credit Authority, which is responsible for exercising supervision. The credit supervision responds as follows: ‘In inspections, the supervision of the criteria on which institutions focus when assessing the client’s ability to repay, including the criteria entered into the institutions’ internal assessment system, the so-called ‘score models’. The supervision also recommends/reasons that a sensitivity analysis be carried out with respect to the increase in the level of interest rates and the effect that this might have on the customer’s ability to repay. It is shown, among others: to the credit supervisor’s general comments to the banks on the prudentness of lending beyond 80 % of the sound value base. In the case of sales finance, i.e. the application for credit through the distributor of capital goods is emphasised in the assessment on the proportion of the balance of the customer. An application which would normally lead to a refusal could be granted if the customer himself could contribute with a higher proportion of the balance than would normally be required. In such situations, the discount rate could be down to 10 per cent.In consumer loans, institutions disclose that the discount rate is in the range of 60 to 70 per cent.In contrast to, for example, residential loans, the assessment of consumer credit will result in either refusal or acceptance; renunciation is less relevant in this type of case, as the customer will rely more heavily on a particular loan amount.» In my opinion, there is no need now for further measures from the Credit Authority to ensure that the financial institutions comply with the Financial Contracts Act § 47. However, it is important that each institution itself should take care to ensure that its borrowing policy, both in general and in specific matters, is sound. This also applies in relation to the Financial Contracts Act § 47.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e733	I thank you for your answer! Of course, I agree that the financial institutions themselves are going to follow up on this. But it's a fact that it's very easy to get consumption loans today. A large amount of supply is sent daily from those offering consumer loans without security and at a much higher interest rate than the market otherwise requires. 16.8 pst., up to 30 pst., it is claimed that some people listen to pay for these consumption fees. They can send an application on the Internet. Many long-terms promise quick answers, and these loans are granted. The fastest thing I've seen when it comes to the time that the borrower needs to get a loan of $200,000 without security is 15 minutes. The evening post writes at 14 pst. of the volume of loans failed in 2002 — and there are many who are impulsively taking up loans. Is it the Minister of Finance that there are as high numbers as we see here? And what does the Minister of Finance think about the interest on these loans?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e742	What the Minister of Finance thinks about interest rates – I don't think that's up to the office, to command the interest rates in the market. But as far as I'm asked in the media as a kind of consumer counsellor, I generally warn against taking consumer loans, because they're very, very expensive. I've said that repeatedly, and I like to repeat it here. So I don't think you should focus on the number of loan offers that come as advertising in the post, but on the numbers that I actually gave that the discount rate for consumer loans is pretty high, between 60 pst. and 70 pst. So it's my impression that the institutions here are operating properly, but they're operating under a responsibility they have to take. And back to the question: I can't see that practice is now going to change the law. The credit authority also shares that opinion, as far as I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e749	I thank you again for your answer. Obviously, look at this in general that the discount rate is 60 pst, it's pretty high. But there's a large percentage of those who get loans, who fail to borrow, because they're not able to raise them. And like I said, 14 pst. of the volume of loans failed in 2002. It's very much. I'm not busy doing anything about the law, but I'm busy with the consumer's interests, that those who lend must feel a great responsibility to inform those who take up the loan, about the consequences of this. That's what I think is being taken a little bit lightly in many cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e756	I refer to what I said in my original answer. It is not the opinion of the Credit Authority that this is generally taken too lightly by the institutions, and I am thinking about the obligation to provide guidance. On the other hand, it is clear that there are situations in life that arise – sickness, unemployment, divorce, etc. – which cannot be predicted by any institution providing advice. And it's often in such cases that payment problems occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e764	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘The nuclear inflation followed by the Bank of Norway increased by 0,1 pst. from January 2003 to January 2004. In other words, the Norwegian economy is following a bad course towards deflation, while the deviation from the inflation target is greater than ever. The Council of State now sees a somewhat more expansive fiscal policy, for example: to grant 3 to 5 billion. More on better schooling, care for the elderly, roads and start-ups would facilitate the achievement of the inflation target and contribute to stable conditions for Norwegian business?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e773	The short answer to the question is no. But I'm going to give a longer reason than that. The use of oil revenue from the State budget has risen to a high level. In the aged budget for the current year, the so-called structural oil-corrected deficit is estimated at DKK 50.7 billion, corresponding to about 4 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway. This is over the expected real return of the Petroleum Fund. The level of the structural deficit is approaching what we can use in the long term of the oil revenues without draining on the capital of the Petroleum Fund. At the same time, we see that the growth in the cost of sick pay and disability benefits is increasing again. In a few years' time, the cost of old age pensions will also increase sharply. As the representative Lund points out, price increases are now down to a very low level. Twelve-month growth in consumer prices corrected for taxes and excluding energy products was 0,1 pst in January. Since May last year, the underlying price increase has been outside the range of plus/minus 1 percentage point around the price target, which is expected to normally be within the consumer price index. In particular, the growth of underlying inflation has been reduced by the fall in prices of imported consumer goods, a trend such as: must be seen in the light of the strengthening of Norwegian krona in 2001 and 2002 and of changes in import patterns. The low price increase has been perceived by some as a significant risk that the Norwegian economy will go into a longer period of deflation. However, there is little reason to fear such developments in Norway. Private consumption is developing strongly, credit growth is high, and housing prices seem to be increasing. There is also reason to assume that the price increase will rise beyond spring and summer, among other things. as a result of the winch of the last year. This is also in line with the recent assessments of the Technical Calculation Committee for Income Statements. I would warn against pursuing a policy that increases public spending even more. It'll blow up the public sector, as we saw in the 1990s. Employment in the public sector increased so strongly that it created problems for the private sector and, in particular, for wage growth. Monetary policy is now giving strong impetus to economic development. In this situation, a more expansive fiscal policy could lead to expectations of higher interest rates in the future, and the krona could once again strengthen itself markedly. Developments in 2001 and 2002 showed the serious consequences for the competitive part of Norwegian business, and thus for the whole balance of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e788	I thank you for your answer. This is the economic policy that is now described, which was the main reason why we had a disaster year for Norwegian business in 2002 and 2003. That's what we now have to get away from. What is then needed are other types of incentives than just using interest rate medicine. The business community wants stable conditions, and we must avoid that the strong growth in private consumption leads to a new click. It is possible to stimulate business by giving a job when the public has the means to ask for a job, for example: to build roads, to maintain schools better, and by SND being able to say yes to those parts of the business that now need a yes to become optimists. These are appropriations that can produce rapid effects, and it is likely to disappear as soon as there is optimism and growth in business. So that's what I'm now asking, that one spends funds temporarily on public budgets, such as, among other things. The SSB has shown that it is possible to do so. Is not the Council of State concerned that the current interest-rate medicine works so poorly in order to have optimism in the business world?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e797	The answer is no. There's optimism in Norwegian business, and it's growth. This should have been achieved by the representative – after the countless reports that have now been delivered from institutions outside the Ministry of Finance. I refer to the Technical Calculation Committee, I refer to the Bank of Norway, I refer to the Annual Report of the Governor, and I refer to a number of private institutions that have reached exactly the same conclusions. The question is therefore, in a way, completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e804	I then show that in the latest report on business investment forecasts – which came yesterday – it is said that there will be an investment of NOK 1 billion more in 2004 than in 2003. But in 2003, there was a drop of DKK 3 billion, and there is a huge decrease. Investment in Norwegian business is below the level in 2000. Norwegian business does not dare — they are sitting and licking their wounds after 2002 and 2003. At the same time, the interest rate decline has given DKK 7 billion in increased purchasing power in the household sector. This is completely unbalanced, and I think it's strange if the Council of State is not concerned about this imbalance – an imbalance that makes us not grow in business. We get it in the private sector. The housing prices and the sale of new cars and holiday trips go up, and that is not what creates a good future for Norway. Positive signals are needed, and I think they should come – at the latest in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e811	I want to draw the questioner's attention to the fact that the business and private sector are essentially the same. There's no contradiction there. I would also like to draw his attention to the fact that the number of holiday trips does not increase particularly when the crown is weak. I'm not going to solve the relationship here, but it's the opposite that happens -- it's going to be more expensive to travel. What gets cheaper when the dollar is low is actually to export – for the private sector or for the export-oriented part of business. That's why things are better there, too. On the issue of when the increase in investment is coming: it is not happening today on political command — the kind of policy that has been abandoned. This happens when industry itself finds a market base for investment. I record that this too is going in the right direction, albeit somewhat slower than desired. But it doesn't happen on command, it happens according to the priorities of business and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e820	Question 5 will be answered later, before question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e827	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘Every year, the Ministry of Finance treats the current year’s tax forecast of municipalities as a state secret until next year’s government budget is presented. This creates problems for municipalities' own financial management. Will the Council of State ensure that current practice is changed so that the forecasts of current year's tax revenue in the draft State budget are made available as early as September?»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e836	Let me first say that the expression "state secret" in this context is as template-placed as it can be at all. The Ministry of Finance draws up annual tax allocations for the State and local government in the context of the national budget in October, and then in the revised national budget in May. Estimates are based on an overall review of developments in the Norwegian economy, based on available statistics and macroeconomic projections. In the revised national budget for 2004, the Ministry of Finance will normally present revised tax estimates for the local government sector in 2004. These estimates will be based on up-to-date information on tax receipts in the early months of 2004 and on new information on developments in tax bases. In the 2005 national budget, presented for the autumn, the Ministry of Finance will publish up-to-date tax estimates for municipalities for the current year, together with estimates for 2005. Estimates of central government tax revenue and tax estimates for the local government sector must be based on an overall review of the Norwegian economy. Unbundling the tax estimates for the local government sector for the current year from the 2005 review of the national budget would increase the uncertainty of the estimates and thus reduce their value added.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e847	I thank you for your answer. I am somewhat disappointed that the Minister of Finance does not see the problems of the municipalities. It is obvious that when the government budget for next year is presented, the tax estimates in the budget are known to the Ministry in advance. I know that a number of municipalities have tried to get the figures before, because this is very important for the municipalities' own financial management. For example, I might mention a change in tax revenue of 800 million. kr means for a municipality like Sandfjord approx. Six million. NOK in reduced tax revenue. The time factor is essential for the municipality to be able to adapt its activity to the changes in the economic framework conditions. Therefore, I believe it is absolutely necessary for the Ministry of Finance to change its practice, so that municipalities can get these estimates as early as possible, preferably in September. That should be possible in my view.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e856	The answer is no. That's not possible. Then we wouldn't present a good estimate. We present the estimates as soon as they are available and as soon as they are professionally sound. That the representative has a different idea about this, I can't do anything about it, but there is no time playing in this area. I would just like to mention that the Ministry of Finance, by letter to the Financial Committee, where the representative is sitting, also has a change in the tax allocation when there are new figures – apart from the two regular rounds, the revised budget and the national budget. But then the estimates do not have the same quality as when they are presented as part of a whole. There are several factors that need to be assessed when tax assessments are presented and all those assessed in the context of the national budgets and the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e865	I just want to inform the Minister of Finance that in a meeting with KS Vestfold, KS claims were made that all the municipalities in Westfold have problems with the lateness of tax estimates and that it creates major problems for the municipalities. When this is the case for Vestfold and for all municipalities, there must also be a significant problem for other municipalities in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e870	It's possible. However, if estimates are requested, estimates cannot be obtained until estimates are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e880	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the finance minister: ‘Proposal for a national transport plan 2006-2015 provides for a calculation rate of 8 pst. This means that new road investment must provide a real return of 8 pst. in order for the investment to be defined as profitable. At the same time, the Norwegian state is satisfied with a real return of 4 pst. for risky share purchases abroad. Does it not seem to the Council of State that it would make sense to move money from stock positions abroad to road investments in Norway if this would result in a higher return and lower risk?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e889	I guess the questioner with the last sentence of the question here is aimed at the Petroleum Fund. That's the premise for my answer. Oil and gas are non-renewable resources. Therefore, current high payments from the petroleum sector cannot be considered as revenues in the normal sense but represent a significant part of the relocation of oil and gas resources. Petroleum revenues are counterparts of a reduction in the country’s petroleum wealth. If we are to enjoy oil and gas revenues on a lasting basis, the use of revenues must therefore be decoupled from current payments to the state. The budgetary policy guidelines take this into account. The net cash flow from the oil operation is transferred in full to the State Petroleum Fund, while only the real return of the fund to be used is over time. This way, you don't have to clear your fortune. It is also essential to meet the future increase in pension expenditure and other age-related health and care expenditure. The budget policy action rule thus provides guidelines for the overall use of petroleum revenues from the state budget each year, regardless of how the money is spent. Within this space of action, different objectives are assessed against each other, including: the amount to be used for transport purposes. This ensures the overall treatment of the different expenditure and income items of the country. When assessing transport projects, the use of cost-benefit analysis is a useful tool. If a road project has a significantly higher present value than another, this may be an argument for prioritising this project rather than a project of lower present value. However, the choice of discount rate will have little impact on the overall allocation for transport purposes. A lower discount rate will increase the present value of investment projects, but the Storting will nevertheless have to make a balance between appropriations for this purpose and other expenditure in the budget. A comparison of the expected real return on financial investments in a widely diversified portfolio, represented by the Petroleum Fund, and a calculation rate to calculate the present value of public projects makes little sense. Investment in road projects must be seen in relation to other expenditure on the budget within the framework of sound budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e904	I would like to thank you for the answer, even though I thought that the Council of State did not respond to exactly what I asked for. Of course, I am aware that oil and gas are not renewable resources and that one must therefore treat these revenues differently from other revenues. But here we are talking about a set of requirements for investment in relation to road, that it has to give a real return of 8 pst. for this to be profitable at the same time as one is satisfied with 4 pst. real return on equity positions through the Petroleum Fund abroad. So my question is still: wouldn't that make sense, instead of being satisfied with 4 pst? real returns, moving money and investing in road transport in Norway, so that we get lower transport costs, and so that we secure Norwegian jobs, if this also gives a higher real return than by placing an alternative abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e913	As I said in my first answer, it is an error to compare a long-term, expected real return on a pension fund, as the Petroleum Fund is for all practical purposes, and a discount rate, which is a tool for assessing road projects. To put it this way: there will be no more way together than the size of its final decision prioritizes. The discount rate is only an aid. The basis for the discount rate lies in professional investigations carried out by the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance and other departments concerned, and is not subject to normal political judgement. However, if the representative believes that the purpose of transport is the only one that requires increased withdrawals from the Petroleum Fund – in order to cover deficits on the State budget – I disagree with such an assessment, but it is one of many good purposes that can justify it. It itself does not provide a basis for assessing the overall functioning of the budget in the economy. That is the overall priority the Storting must take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e918	It is shown that there are underlying professional assessments. I have read through this proposal from the transport modes to the national transport plan, and the reason that one has as high a calculation rate as 8 pst is very well hidden in these professional, economic assessments. As far as I know, our neighbouring country has 3 pst. calculation rate. The reason they've ended up on it is because they haven't calculated any risk premium, like a do in Norway. After this, there are professional assessments that suggest that in Norway there is a very high risk, 4.5 pst., of building roads, so there is no risk of building roads in Sweden. I want to ask the Council of State: what is it about the Swedish economy that makes it natural to operate with a calculation rate of 3 pst, while one has a calculation rate of 8 pst. in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e923	This question is different from what was originally asked, and it should be asked to the Minister for Transport. I can just hit from my memory that the Swedish calculation rate is 4 pst., without risk supplement. It has nothing to do with the Swedish economy, it has something to do with Swedish transport policy, possibly. The Danish calculation rate is 6 pst., also without a risk supplement, or where it is considered to be included in the total percentage. So this will vary from country to country. It has nothing to do with the macro-economy to do what kind of calculation rate is set for prioritisation between different transport projects, different road projects included.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e928	If the representative is to have this in greater depth, the question should therefore be asked to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e935	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘More general practitioners have recently been deprived of the right to prescribe A and B medicines for the life-saving treatment of drug addicts on a waiting list for methadone or Subutex treatment. It's about approx. 400-600 patients. The waiting time of 2-3 years can lead to a significant number of deaths among these young drug addicts. Will the Council of State change the legislation and respect the fact that the drug addicts are now patients who are entitled to treatment by their permanent staff?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e944	Medically assisted rehabilitation is one of several multi-disciplinary specialised services for drug users in Norway and was transferred to the State by the regional health companies as part of the Rus reform from 1 January this year. The role of decision-makers has been strengthened by the fact that, in line with social services, the doctor can now refer to such specialised treatment. In terms of drug-based treatment provision, the drug itself is included as one of several elements in a holistic approach. The drugs used, usually methadone or Subutex, are highly addictive. Combination with other drugs can pose a health risk and are attractive on the illegal market. There is therefore also a significant risk with this form of treatment. This is the background to the development of criteria for whom such treatment should be provided and control measures for prescribing the drugs. In order to ensure a professionally sound framework, the measure is regulated by the extradition regulation, which provides that medicinal products may only be supplied to individual patients as part of medically assisted drug-abuse rehabilitation when they are included in measures approved by the Ministry. The Institute of Public Health has reported a marked increase in the number of methadone-related deaths in Norway. The Council of the Foundation is that strict control of the supply of the medicinal products must be exercised. All health care must be provided properly. When a doctor loses the right to obtain A and B preparations, it is based on the health care requirement of the Health Care Professional Act. We also have reports from the professional community that many drug users who are prescribed ‘quota’ are often not in a position to seek medically assisted rehabilitation, and in the event of such an offer being started, some may fall due to a lack of motivation to follow up the rehabilitation. We also know that drug users often have complex problems and will need assistance from both health and social services to ensure that efforts are effective in the long term. Research shows that methadone or Subutex in combination with psychosocial interventions is more effective than the drug alone in terms of drug use, overdose mortality and reduced crime. Studies also show that the drug alone is not enough to keep patients in treatment for a long time without psychosocial support. This is the basis for the overall rehabilitation system we have in Norway. The social services and their permanent staff are central to the application and medical evaluation in advance. The regional centre shall take care of the specialised part of the offer responsible for approving the arrangement for the individual, assisting in the processing as necessary, making any outsourcing and developing and guiding the local auxiliary equipment. The decision-maker and social services are then responsible for the follow-up at local level. The size joined this decentralised model in the context of the review of the 2001 revised national budget. In the Mid-Norway health region, we know that for some people there has been a long waiting period, but two to three years waiting time, to which the representative Alvheim refers, does not result in correctness, according to the department's reports. At the turn of the year, about 2,500 such treatments were received, while 550 were on the waiting list regionally. The government has therefore also strengthened the offer in budgetary terms in the last year. In 2004, the measure was reinforced by 30 million. kr for increased treatment capacity, including the establishment of a new centre in North Norway and for labour-oriented measures for persons in medically assisted rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e957	I thank the Council of State for the answer. For a long time, I have been annoyed by the fact that the county doctors and the Health Department have been so zealous in persecuting general practitioners who, after a medical evaluation, are trying to save the lives of the drug addicts by prescribing A and B medicines, as there is no opportunity for the prescribers to print methadone or Subutex. It is not the doctor who performs irresponsible medicine here, but rather the health department, who practises legislation that must be contrary to patient rights laws and that can lead to many deaths among drug addicts. Will the Minister of Health ensure that the legislation is changed, so that general practitioners can prescribe methadone and Subutex, and that the follow-up of patients takes place in cooperation with the social action?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e968	I can inform you that an overall evaluation of the offer has been started. The results of the evaluation are expected to be available by the end of the year. Any changes in legislation and other provisions must be based on the results of this evaluation. The key now is to give regional health businesses the opportunity to take on and discharge their new responsibilities for enhanced treatment provision and health provision for drug users. Since the last debate on the provision of treatment was held here in Stortinget, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs have sent out a circular detailing the possibility of exemptions for the admission criteria, in order to ensure more that all persons concerned are assessed and registered as applicants where this offer may seem appropriate. I would otherwise, unlike the representative Alvheim, be very careful to look at the health care assessments of what is professionally sound, whether they be from permanent practitioners or other health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e977	I also have a certain understanding of what is professionally sound. I thank you for your answer. Today, between 500 and 1,000 heroin users are in line for methadone or Subutex treatment. The waiting period may extend over two to three years, and during this period, statistically one fifth of patients will have died, either in the event of an overdose or in the event of suicide. As of 1 January of this year, the State of health establishments has been responsible for the treatment of those drug addicts. In this context, the Minister of Health has a special responsibility for providing our heroin users with help as quickly as possible. However, if this is to happen, the rehabilitation facility must be removed and the criteria for treatment with methadone and Subutex must be liberalised at the fixed level, so that the decision-maker takes responsibility for the patient’s treatment, as in all other cases. Will the Minister of Health contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e986	At least it is not that the Minister of Health, regardless of the guidelines that have been dealt with in the Storting, to which I referred, can change this approach. What I have started is an overall evaluation. I will of course come back to Stortinget with the result of the evaluation, which will be available by the end of this year. Let me also say to the issue in question that in the specific cases where a doctor of the supervisory authorities is deprived of the right to prescribe A and B medicines, and patients are in a difficult situation, it is my opinion that municipal healthcare can provide them – and should provide them – with a time-limited system until these patients can be cared for through the regional LAR scheme. It has been stated in a specific case in Westfold, and it will also apply in other such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e997	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘The EU claims that water quality is poor in Norway and forces us to ‘improve’ it. The poor financial situation in municipalities has forced many municipalities to sell/rent out their waterworks, and in particular grids, to private profit-makers, in most cases they are from the EU. How do the Councils of State view the health consequences of privatising or subjecting key societal tasks such as water supply to profit objectives, and are such developments in line with the policy of the KRF?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1006	Let me first point out that the EU has not found that Norway has had poor water quality delivered from waterworks. Norway itself has taken the initiative to improve the quality of water from Norwegian waterworks, especially in the period following the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, see below. The size allocation to the Water Supply Programme, which started in 1995. The quality of drinking water remains to be restored and safeguarded by some people. All the major waterworks now have good safety at source, water treatment and operation. There are many European companies which have a large international activity for the purchase and/or operation of water supply facilities, and several of them have been interested in entering the Norwegian market. To date, I am aware that one municipality, Bærum, has signed a contract with an international company on joint ventures and operations. This cooperation has now been completed, and the municipality has taken over the operation again. A few municipalities have separated the waterworks as a separate unit, either as a holding company or as a municipal company, but the municipality is the only owner. The relationship between the municipality as the person in charge and the population is not affected by this. Many waterworks have assessed the competitive outsourcing of their pipelines, and the Ministry of Local Government has developed guidance material to assist municipalities in such a process. A key principle is that the municipality should continue to be responsible to the customers. Private companies are committed to having force majeure clauses in order not to lose money, but the municipality must ensure that the necessary measures are implemented. The municipality pays for the extra measures needed to maintain good quality water supplies under any circumstances, in line with what the municipality itself would be able to do. I cannot see that the type of contracts that have been in force in Norway could have a negative impact on the hygienic quality of the water supplied to the population, and therefore it could not have a negative health impact. If a contract with an international company with extensive drinking water competence results in the waterworks gaining the necessary competence to which it would otherwise not have access, the result would, on the contrary, have a positive impact on the quality of the water supplied. The Municipality of Oslo has in its contract with the company that built the new water treatment plant at Oset, an option for this company to be involved in operating the plant once it has been completed. It has not been decided whether to exploit the option. One municipality, Asker, has wanted to enter into a contract with a US lease for its water supply plant. The principle of this arrangement is that the municipality leases the facility of an American company on a long-term contract, more than 50 years, upon which the municipality immediately leases everything back on a shorter contract, preferably 25 years. The U.S. company has to obtain tax advantages that make it a profit that the municipality benefits from. The municipality itself will continue to have ownership responsibility in relation to Norwegian legislation, and it will continue to operate the plant. Liability to the population is unaffected by such a contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1023	I don't think the council is aware of that, or maybe I've got the wrong information, but it's decided that the water in Oslo, with approx. 500000 subscribers shall be improved and the waterworks shall be leased to a French company, which in all its silence has established itself in Norway. Rentals must take place for 20 years. Is it really Christian People's Party's opinion that the waterworks in Norway should be privatized in this way? And if not, what does the Council of State intend to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1030	The question from the representative Bastesen has asked me as Minister of Health, and that is how I answer it. The starting point of the question has been the health consequences of a possible conversion of waterworks. I have responded, and I have provided the information I have received on the extent of this in Norway. The review I and my staff have had of this information does not suggest that the health consequences of such changes in the operation of the waterworks are in any way present. Rather, an opposite effect may be seen, or at least the possibility of opposite effects. And if I'm allowed to add on a more general political basis, as the representative Bastesen now asks, I have to say that these are of the tasks that I think it must be possible for the municipalities to find such kinds of solutions for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1037	I didn't ask in my original question just about the health issues. In the last line, it says ‘profit objective’ — in terms of renting waterworks to non-resident companies. There's a lot of money there, and what do you pay taxes for? NVE, Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate, has prepared an investigation on green energy and water rights. This investigation has the Stortinget asked for, and it will probably be kept secret. Will the Council of State contribute to the publication of this investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1044	I do not know the investigation to which the representative Bastesen refers and therefore cannot answer the question directly. But of course I want to examine the question in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1052	I would first like to point out that the adjective «psychic» has unfortunately fallen into the question that has been distributed, but I think the Minister of Health is aware of that. So the question is replaced by the following: ‘Autism is a serious mental illness that develops in early childhood. The forecasts have traditionally been poor, and medical treatment has not proved effective to date. There is a treatment that provides spectacularly good results and is provided through TIPO Norway. Basics include: research-based work carried out in Oslo since 1989. One of the regional health establishments covers the costs of TIPO treatment, the other not. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that all health establishments cover such treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1061	Persons with disabilities, even if this is the result of or part of a disease picture, are presumed to have their need for services within the ordinary auxiliaries. This also applies to children with autism, where both the child rehabilitation service and the training sector have key tasks. A central professional autism unit has been established at the University of Oslo and a national autism network in cooperation between the former Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Education and Research to ensure the development of actions and services for those with autism. The nodes of this Autism network are professional environments with acute competence. The autism network is part of the national centres of expertise for rare disabilities, which the representative Sortevik is well aware of. A process has been initiated to link the centres of expertise for rare disabilities to the structure of enterprises, so that services are best coordinated with other specialist health services. The three centres of expertise for rare disabilities have been transferred to regional health establishments from 1 January 2004. The transfer of the other centres of expertise for rare disabilities, including the Autism Network, to regional health establishments is now under way. An evaluation of the Autism Network is under way. This evaluation is assumed to be available before the summer. A link to the corporate structure means that this competence becomes part of the overall national specialist health service provision, and I believe that this provides a good basis for safeguarding this competence in the future as well as providing an offer that is equivalent across the country. TIPO Norway is a private clinic that provides early and high-intensity training for children with delayed development, such as: by autism. This is one of several methods. The method TIPO is well known in the professional environments. In the light of TIPO Norway’s enquiry, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has asked the Directorate for Social Affairs to assess Norway’s approach to high-intensity early intervention for children with autism, the extent to which this scheme appears to be a specialist healthcare service, and the extent to which the scheme may have to be regarded as a training responsibility for which the school/training seat is responsible. Regional health companies are responsible for providing specialised health services to the population, and these are those who have to assess whether a wish to purchase services from private operators to fulfil their responsibilities, as defined. With the competence now established and developed within the Autism Network, and with a continued focus on the rehabilitation of children, involving cooperation between specialist health services, community health services and training measures, provision should be made for children with autism to receive good and relevant offers throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1074	A few municipalities provide children with access to treatment at TIPO, and as a special education based on the Training Act §5-1, which grants special education, and only after the children have reached schoolable age. It was also the Council of State within its answer. My point is that infantile autism is a mental illness, and there is access to treatment for these children, not special education. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2003-2004 by the Social Committee. An overall committee focuses on long-term offers and an individual plan as well as good treatment provision in Norway, and the Committee notes that some parents find the offer provided inadequate. A growing number of parents want alternative training offers. Is it not the concern of the Council of State that only one health business is following it up as an overall committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1083	Let me first say that the Council of State has followed up what is expressed as a concern by an overall committee, by drawing up a plan for the rehabilitation of children. It is also a focus of health policy, and it will be in the future. With regard to the specific offer, we have started an evaluation at the Technical Office, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health to provide a basis on which regional health companies can make their decisions, on the need they have for this type of private service. We have thus initiated a process which, on the one hand, strengthens the overall level of rehabilitation, and, on the other hand, in relation to the specific question raised by the representative Sortevik, facilitates the assessment and decisions that regional health businesses have to take, on the basis of the responsibility that Storting has given them under the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1090	The point is that this process outlined for the other health care establishments takes time. It's just the time the parents of these kids don't have. One of the main points of the method used by TIPO — the early intervention project in Oslo — is just the time to get started quickly. Studies show that almost 50 pst. of those treated have the possibility of both normal and age-typical intellectual functioning after completion of treatment. It is therefore important to clarify that parents can use energy, effort and concern to participate in the training and training of the children concerned, rather than to fight against bureaucratic authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1095	I do not think it is difficult for the representative of Sortevik and the Minister of Health to agree on this last point. At the same time, the professional evaluation of a professional treatment scheme must be carried out by professional authorities. It cannot be done by politicians. That is why I have made sure that my professional body in this area, the Social and Health Directorate, makes that assessment so that the decision-makers of regional health companies can make their decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1104	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «According to St.prp. No 1 patients who are currently using Carduran and Sinalfa should be able to continue to do so after the majority of the Grand Duchy, during the budgetary procedure. [[2003-2004]] [[2003-2004]] S. No 11 last autumn, the Government’s proposal to remove these drugs from the list of medicinal products with general reimbursement. Data from doctors and pharmaceutical manufacturers indicate that these patients are not being followed up. What does the Council of State do to ensure that these patients continue to have access to these drugs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1113	In the context of the implementation of this measure, a transitional mechanism is in place to allow doctors on behalf of patients to consider blood pressure treatment other than the alpha-blockers Carduran or Sinalfa. In those cases where medical reasons suggest that the patient should continue with alpha blockers, individual reimbursement may be applied for through Section 10a of the Blue Recipe Regulation. In addition, the transitional regime implies that blue prescriptions on these medicinal products issued in 2003 or January 2004 will be refunded until 1 May of this year. This ensures that all patients using the medicinal products have visited the pharmacy at least once and thus received information on the measure before the withdrawal of the right to reimbursement. Furthermore, exceptions have been made so that until 1 March general practitioners may apply for individual reimbursement of alpha-blockers against high blood pressure. This is usually only specialists who can do. Information on the transitional arrangements has been provided to all doctors and pharmacists. Information is also available on the Swedish Medicines Agency’s web service. At the discretion of the authorities, the transitional regime allows doctors a reasonable period of time to assess the treatment and either to find alternative blood pressure medication or to apply for individual reimbursement under Section 10a of the BIP. Patients who have been prescribed alpha-blockers for one year of treatment will be briefed at the pharmacy on the new scheme. In most cases, requests for further prescription on Section 10a of the prescription can be ordered by telephone between doctor and patient. I would like to make it clear that, in the context of Stortingen’s treatment of the 2004 State budget, it was decided that the alpha-blocks should be second-hand drugs in the treatment of high blood pressure. This means that not all patients should necessarily continue with these medicinal products. I consider the transition regime for the alpha blocks to be satisfactory, so that doctors can have sufficient opportunity to offer other blood pressure treatments or apply for individual reimbursement. I have been informed that one of the pharmaceutical companies has called for the transitional regime in relation to the access of the general practitioner to seek reimbursement for the patient to be extended until 1 May 2004. This call is now being evaluated in the State Medicines Agency. In the light of the Agency’s recommendation on the matter, I would like to see whether it is necessary to implement further measures to ensure that patients currently using an alpha block are satisfactorily followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1124	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is entirely in line with, among other things, the press release sent by the State Medicines Agency. The problem is that feedback from both some doctors and, as I said at the outset, from pharmaceutical companies shows that the system does not seem to work satisfactorily, and that you may need a little more time. In the context of the changes made to the state budget for the current year, reference was made to the fact that these new preparations should be for new cases and that those who were already on a drug could continue to do so. Will the Council of State again look at this issue, given that it was said that it is the new cases that are going to test the new drugs as first choice, and not patients who are already on a different medicinal product?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1131	Let me state that to the extent that there is evidence that there is reason to extend that transitional arrangement, it will not be on me. I will follow that up if the Medical Products Agency's recommendation so requires. With regard to the question of the follow-up to what has been decided by the Storting, I have to say that the guidelines from the budgetary procedure in the Stortinget feel obliged to follow up, and I will do so. I believe that what is happening here is in line with these guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1138	I understand that the Minister of Health feels obliged to follow the guidelines and regulations that he himself lays down in this matter, which he fronted through the state budget negotiations. I'm not very surprised about that, and of course the Council of State has to do that. What is the problem is that the new changes actually come into effect this week, from Monday 1 March. What I'm asking you is if the Council of State will now follow intensively how the new system works for the patients who are being put on these drugs. If it were to be demonstrated that the change that is now under way — with reference to the ALLHAT study that has been used as an argument — does not meet the objective, will the Council of State come back to the Storting and reverse the decision taken in connection with the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1145	I believe in the policy adopted by the majority of the European Parliament, and I believe that it will have good effects both on patients and on society, and not least on the possibility of slowing down the strong growth of pharmaceutical expenditure on the social security budget. It is in the nature of the matter that the responsibility to follow developments and to see whether developments are in line with assumptions lies in the Council of State and the Department, and I take that responsibility. I can inform you that the Government for the autumn will present a comprehensive review of Norwegian pharmaceutical policy, in which we are evaluating part of the reforms that have been implemented in recent years. It will allow the Storting to discuss both the experience, the status and the future policy of the entire pharmaceutical field.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1155	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘For a long time, there has been considerable uncertainty about the ambulance service at Kunes in Lebesby Municipality, Finnmark. The Board of Health Finnmark has now decided to terminate the service from 1 March this year. This means a dramatic weakening of the ambulance service where the driving time is already 4-5 hours to the hospital in Hammerfest. What will the Council of State do to provide emergency preparedness for this part of the population in a better way than it is now?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1164	Let me first point out that the Finnmark population is entitled to an equivalent service offer in line with the rest of the population in Finland. It is also a matter of ensuring that a good ambulance service will be available if the need arises. At the same time, Health Finnmark is required to make significant changes, as is the case with the other health establishments. Therefore, health businesses must be prepared to change their working forms in order for us to have a qualitatively good and modern hospital service. It may involve changes in the provision of services, organisation of work, composition of personnel and size of personnel groups. The budget decision in the Grand Duchy opens up the possibility of transforming and adapting its activities within its resources framework during 2005. Within the enterprise system, it is the overall responsibility of the Minister of Health for the emergency medical services to function in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Specialist Health Services Act. At the same time, it is important that health businesses be given the opportunity to fulfil the role required by the Stortingen’s decision on the Health Business Act. It is a central element of the reform that the regional health business should be given opportunities to find good and coherent solutions for the region. Local health establishments shall also have the necessary flexibility in the practical operation. The model will play down if there is to be a practice of detail management from the central level in individual cases. However, this does not mean that, at the same time, within the business model, health businesses are free to carry out their tasks. It shall take place in accordance with the service requirements laid down by the Grand Duchy by legislative decisions and other decisions taken in this Chamber. The central health authorities have a management and follow-up responsibility to ensure that the services comply with the objectives set by policy bodies. In addition, in the event of doubt as to the adequacy of the service, the State Health and County Medical Supervisors have a supervisory responsibility. This is also important in relation to the follow-up to the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Health for the effective functioning of healthcare. Health Finnmark has closed the ambulance station at Kunes from March 1st the current year. The area is covered by ambulances from Mehamn, Lebesby or Lakselv. In exceptional cases, rescue medical helicopters from Banak may be used. The conversion of the offer has not been considered irresponsible by the supervisory authority of Finnmark. The municipality of Lebesby has received an offer from the health care company to take over an ambulance free of charge and to receive an annual grant of NOK 20 000 for the carriage of stretchers in the area for an agreed remuneration per year. kilometres travelled. This is a solution which is also practised at the training centre in Northern Ireland. The health service informs that the offer has not been answered by the municipality so far, but that it is still available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1179	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There are many fine concepts and objectives to which this is referred, including: the provision of equivalent services for the Finnish population as for the rest of the population in the country. However, when Health Finnmark is said to have to undergo major transformations, like all other health businesses now, and this is to be done by 2005, it is based on a majority policy here in the Stortingen, and the majority decisions taken must be followed. What worries me very much is that you add up to such a resource access to hospitals that you also have to start saving in and shutting down ambulance services, thus weakening emergency preparedness and emergency services for parts of the population in a way that I think is not only alarming, but irresponsible. The regional health enterprise should find good solutions, says the Minister for Health. But is this a good enough solution, and is the State Health Authority and County Doctor in Finnmark satisfied with this solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1188	The representative for Lutvold used the word ‘indefensible’ to describe the change that has occurred here. It is a concept on which the supervisory authority, even now, asked for the meaning, cannot sign. It is also a fact that there has been an offer from Health Finnmark to the municipality of Lebesby that the municipality has not answered so far, but that the municipality still has the opportunity to receive. My wish is to find a agreed solution locally, so that the municipality can dispose of the measure offered by Health Finnmark, which is otherwise in operation in another municipality in North Norway, to which I referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1195	I firmly believe that this is irresponsible. I believe that when there is a driving time for the patient to a hospital of 4-5 hours, and when the response time for the ambulance from the station is between 1 and 2 hours, at least in winter, it is very long. So it's going to be equal to 7 hours. Perhaps the patient must proceed by plane from Hammerfest Hospital to Tromsø. I know the supervisory authority has at least been concerned, cf. the statement made previously by the County doctor in Finnmark. With regard to the offer to the municipality of Lebesby, I am somewhat surprised at that. That is the vote, I have spoken to the rapporteur there, and he has said that they have been offered a used ambulance and NOK 20 000 almost in 'unsolicited money', and then they are going to do this. But ambulance services, emergency medicine, are not municipal tasks. It shall be handled by the State as part of the specialist health service. This cannot be in line with the standards laid down in the emergency message, and with the response time set up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1202	Health Finnmark believes to discharge its responsibilities through the arrangements they have adopted. Because the municipality of Lebesby has been very busy having an ambulance stationed at Kunes, Health Finnmark has offered a solution to that question. It's like an extra service from Health Finnmark to get a unified solution with the municipality, which is an important consideration in the dialogue between health companies and municipalities. I have also discussed this matter with the municipality of Lebesby in the past, and it is my specific call to the municipality as well as to the health company that we are now seeking to close this case and agree on an agreement based on the offer made by the health company.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1212	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister of Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1215	I have a question for the Minister of Justice, who answers on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture: ‘The target for the number of reindeer in West Finland of 64 100 animals shall be reached by 1 April 2005. The forecasts of the river management show a strong increase to 110 000 animals that, with calf growth, can pass 150 000 animals by the summer. This can cause ecological and economic disaster as well as animal tragedy and mass death. What will the Council of State do to reduce the purity to the level specified?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1224	I would like to answer, on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture, the question put by the representative Hedstrom. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the Stortinget has taken the view that the implementation of the decision on renumbering in West Finland is to be carried out in cooperation with the industry and that financial arrangements are to be put in place to which the performers can voluntarily join. The scheme with its own bonus scheme, which is presented to reindeer owners for liquidation or reduction, is in place. It is actively working to get reindeer owners to join the scheme. Here the Rein driftsverwaltung has done a thorough and good job. The result of this work has led to far more than before wanting to reduce or eliminate. In addition, there has been a general desire among the reindeer owners to slaughter more pure than before, as more have been increased in the flock. The increased growth is due to the fact that the area has had several good winters in a row with little snow and thus more available pastures. A change of attitude among reindeer owners for increased slaughter, pure and in good shape, and increased slaughter weight is positive. This fall and winter we have experienced a whole new situation in the industry, namely that many who want to deliver pure for slaughter do not get slaughtered. Here is the main reason for the market situation. While in previous years we have had provision for all reindeer meat that has been produced and in addition has had significant imports, the market has failed from the autumn of 2003. To solve this problem, many parties have to contribute. In this context, I must make it clear that the solutions must be based on the assumption that the meat is to be disposed of for human consumption. It is not acceptable to go in for a solution where slaughter itself is the main objective. In the course of the year's reindeer management negotiations, a number of measures were agreed to ensure the necessary slaughter capacity during the forthcoming slaughter season and measures for increased turnover. Firstly, this implies the use of funds for mobile slaughter facilities that can be used while cleaning is still on summer bee-keeping. Secondly, it involves an intensification of marketing measures and a review of the current slaughterhouse structure and the distribution of reindeer meat. The aim is to make the market both for slaughter and for placing on the market function in such a way that the reindeer do not face the same problems in the future when they want to deliver slaughter. Although the responsibility for selling goods lies with the market players, the Minister of Agriculture took an initiative in November at a meeting there, among other things. the market situation was a topic. The result of this meeting was a Christmas campaign for reindeer meat. The effect so far has to be characterised as positive, but a follow-up is required before we can expect maximum counting in terms of turnover. The State and the Norwegian Reinbriftssamers Landsförbund have agreed to continue this campaign, and in the forthcoming reindeer management agreement there is a further 3 million. to general marketing measures. Overall, this represents an overall strategy aimed at resolving the current problems in West Finland, so that the target of reduction in the reindeer can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1241	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Ten years ago, the Stortinget addressed the communication on sustainable reindeer management. Also at the time, a majority here on the Stortinget were concerned that the reindeer was too high in relation to the grazing grounds. Dedicated governments have tried different instruments, such as early-slaughter grants, calf-slaughter grants, different incentive schemes and – the most expensive – a conversion programme of 330 million. kr. Then you were able to get twelve reindeer workers into a new job. A bit of a job! Many in the different environments are now becoming impatient. Now we have to get final results, adjust the numbers. Can we be reasonably sure that the measures that this government is now taking will provide the final solutions so that we can achieve the target of 64 100 animals by 1 April 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1250	It is important to distinguish between the measures put in place to improve the market and slaughterhouse situation and the bonus scheme put in place as a direct measure to achieve the objective of redefinition. The first one I have explained in my previous article. Experience from previous schemes has been taken into account in the design of bonus schemes. An important issue in implementing these types of measures is that the effectiveness achieved when a reindeer uses the scheme can be reduced by other people building up their flocks. Concrete binding agreements have now been established with both the districts and individual holdings. The regulations and contracts are designed in such a way that no bonus is offered to holders of holdings representing more than 10 pst. of the maximum authorised cut-off value in the district, choosing to be excluded from this scheme. Furthermore, it is necessary for the district to undertake to draw up a reduction plan for the maximum number of cleanly distributed holdings in the district. If these assumptions are not met, the contracts concluded will not enter into force and no payment of state funds will be made. Moreover, I would like to mention that the prerequisite for obtaining support for the reindeer management agreement is that it is legally reindeer operated, including that it is subject to a legitimate decision on the maximum reindeer number. Therefore, the active substances of the reindeer management agreement should be included as a strong incentive to adapt the size of the flock to the maximum authorised reindeer in a holding. With this, maximum pressure has been put on the reindeer within the framework drawn up by the Stortinge in the adaptation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1261	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. Many people now believe that more drastic measures need to be taken and that the issue of rights needs to be looked at. Let me give you a few examples: a farmer who has animals on his own land in a fence adapts the number of animals – whatever the animals it is now – to the grazing grounds. Fishermen get allowances, as fish are a resource to which they are not entitled. Many believe that this is also the way to go in terms of reindeer management, in order to get final, good results. If the measures that the Government has now taken do not work, will a little more drastic action be taken and will efforts be made to achieve something by law or by means of financial penalties?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1270	As I have explained in my two previous articles, a number of measures have been put in place to bring about the necessary adjustment of the reindeer numbers in West Finland. The measures put in place are under the condition of Storting to do so in cooperation with the industry and thus based on voluntary membership. Although the situation has been difficult, it is important to give these instruments a reasonable time to work before considering the introduction of other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1285	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1291	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘A police certificate may be required to be submitted before employment in certain posts involving extensive contact with children. This explains whether the applicant has previously been punished for a moral offence, but not about him, for example. convicted of murder or gross violence. Section 29 of the Criminal Code provides the courts with the opportunity to impose a loss of rights. Loss of rights is less than desirable. Will the Council of State propose amendments to the law so that the courts must assess loss of rights if a person is convicted of killing and/or serious violent crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1300	Before I answer the representative Lyngstad's question, I would like briefly to comment on the access to require a police record. A police record shall state ‘whatever a person has been the subject of criminal proceedings or other measures involving criminal offences committed by him’, see. the first paragraph of Section 5 of the Criminal Registration Act. Police clearance may be required in many respects, including: in the case of employment in certain posts. It is then the individual legal basis which specifies which offences are to be included in the police record. Under the Training Act and the Kindergarten Act, the certificate shall show whether he is intentional, accused or convicted of sexual assault against children. Under Section 29 of the Criminal Code, the court may judge the person guilty of a criminal offence, the loss of a position for a certain period of time or forever. And the court shall always assess whether loss of rights is to be judged when it is guilty of sexual assault against children. This provision has proved to be particularly practical where adults have abused or may abuse the trust relationship — in particular the child’s trust relationship — resulting from specific positions, such as: a pre-school teacher or teacher position. This was also the reason why, in 2000, the Stortinget intensified that, in the event of certain sexual crimes, the courts would always consider loss of rights, in particular in order to have an opportunity to prevent him from gaining a position of trust in children that could be exploited through a particular job or activity. Where a person is convicted of violence – and violence that has nothing to do with children – such matters will easily come into a different position. Here it will often not be the danger of misusing the child’s trust that is crucial, but rather whether the adults, not least the parents themselves, have confidence in the teacher. Positions related to extensive contact with children often require basic trust between the child, the supervisor and the job-seeker. Should reduced confidence following a violent sentence lead to a loss of position or the possibility to pursue a profession, it must always be based on a specific assessment, where consideration of the rehabilitation of the convicted person with the possibility of re-balancing the serious and socially important interests of the case. The Ministry is currently working on a new penal code – a general part. The provision for loss of rights will be carefully assessed in this context, including the request decision of the Stortinget. In my view, the question of whether the court should be required to assess the loss of rights in more cases than at present, is not to be seen detached from the overall assessment I will provide in the work on new criminal law. I therefore come back to this matter when the new penal code is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1323	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State will address these issues. I think it is incredibly important that children have a safe breeding environment, and that people who work closely with children do not abuse their position. I also agree with the Council of States that one vis-à-vis those who commit gross violence, and the death sentence, has to distinguish whether this is an offence committed against children or not, and whether or not there is a risk of repetition here. Based on this, I think it is important to go into the matter thoroughly, and I feel that the courts are using this tool too little. Is the Council satisfied with the practice of the courts today when they judge these things and can disqualify a person from the position?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1332	I choose not to have any idea of the court's practice. There's something I'm going to review in the context of the general part of criminal law. However, I note that the representative and I have a principle common approach, namely that we should not have a general ban on employment, but that we should make an individual assessment on a case-by-case basis. I have explained that it already exists today, and then the question, which has been raised, is whether it should be expanded. It's a question I'd like to consider in the context of the general part of criminal law, and I'm not prepared to say more about this now. It will be part of the work to be done by me and in my department.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1339	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. What I understand is the requirements of the law today, that the courts can make such an assessment – not that they have to dissuade, but that they can dissuade. It also means that it is voluntary whether or not they will make assessments. What is my point and that of the Christian People's Party is that the courts should make such an assessment. That's the assessment we're looking for, not necessarily a certain conclusion of the assessment. Does the Council of State agree that such an assessment is to be made by the courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1346	The representative is trying wisely to repeat the question with a new angle. I don't want to go into the criminal proceedings here either, because it's part of the overall assessment. But I note that, in principle, we still have a common approach, in that it has to be done individually, and it has to be done in the specific case. This is an important starting point for assessing the questions raised by the representative Lyngstad. Whether I'm going to go further in terms of both the criminal and the material content of this is exactly what I want to assess when I look at the general part of the penal code.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1356	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘There are many accidents involving, in part, serious personal injuries resulting from the use of fireworks every New Year’s Eve. A measure to reduce this is to reduce the length of time to 1, if necessary. 2 days before the New Year 20 spokesmen, mainly from Rogaland, are in charge. What is the Council of State's attitude to this?'
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1365	The statistics in the last six years show that on average 120 accidents occur using fireworks that cause injury to persons, especially eye and finger damage, each year. Ordinary sale of fireworks directly to the consumer can be made today only in the period 27 to 31. of December. This is a provision which has just been put in place to shorten the period of sale, but which is deemed necessary to the extent that the sale can be carried out in a proper manner. There is a requirement for the sale to be carried out in commercial premises over a disk and by a service that can demonstrate satisfactory knowledge of the goods sold. The background to these requirements is that the service provider should be able to provide advice and guidance to the purchaser so that the purchaser is aware of what he or she is buying and is given safety information on how to use the goods. In the case of sales outside the 27-31 period. on December, a specific authorisation from the municipality is required, and this is a long way to meet the verification needs raised by the representative in his question. Although the sale of fireworks is limited to one or two days, it is doubtful how much this would have for the volume of sales. Instead, what is at risk is a severe pressure on the outlets and their service so that they do not take the time to provide the necessary guidance on the products and their use. By limiting access to fireworks, there is also a certain risk that there will be an illegal use of fireworks by the public. Products that do not comply with safety objectives are more likely to cause injury and may be directly life-threatening during use. It may also be mentioned that continuous efforts are being made to ensure that the quality of the fireworks products placed on the market is high. From 1 March d.o.b. a new approval system is put in place to test all fireworks in accordance with a specific standard before being type-approved, in contrast to the approval system currently in place, where the approval is granted on the basis of written documentation. A regulation for pyrotechnic articles is also being worked on in the EU. It is currently uncertain when it will come into force. As the statistics, as I said, show that most accidents occur as a result of improper use, it is my opinion that instead of limiting the sales period, it is better to focus on awareness-raising work and increased knowledge of the goods and the risks associated with unreasonable use. I am aware that the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness these days is going out with an invitation to, among other things. representatives from municipalities, fire services, police and fireworks importers to participate in a working group to see how to survive the unwitting use of fireworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1384	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I went to Question Time today with a expectation that the Minister of Justice would respond positively to this. So I'm disappointed that he's not willing to look at the tool that's going to reduce the salsation extra. These rockets are being sent up not only on New Year's Eve, and it is causing unrest in many environments throughout space Christmas. In addition, they lead to damage, as the Council of State also says. I can't help but see the problems of trying to reduce the salsa time, to see if it can help. Actually, everything that could be tried should be tried. There were 137 events in 2002–2003 and 88 injuries, some serious injuries. I guess we'll have to resort to some kind of drastic tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1391	I think the questioner and I have the same purpose, that we should avoid unwise use of fireworks. My reasoning has been very simple, namely that if you limit the sales time beyond the days that are now set up, from 27th to 31th, I am afraid that instead of getting better control, you will have less control. That's what was the reason for my answer. I am afraid that a quick turnover will be achieved in a short time, and then the quality requirements and the information requirements to be placed on the market will not be met. In order to get this reviewed, I also presented the initiative taken by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, where I assume that they are discussing it with all concerned. If there's a recording coming from that team, of course I'll listen to it. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that already today can e.g. the municipality based on the police regulations regulate the use of fireworks. So you have more control options than those that are in the actual sales, which are also regulated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1398	I thank you again for your answer. I like the initiative, and because we have the same goal, but I'm a little disappointed that these twenty spokesmen get a negative answer. This is actually the result of a cooperation in Rogaland, a project on fireworks in 2003, where firemen, policemen and municipalities have worked on measures at many levels, which I hope the Council of State will look at when looking at other measures to address the problems associated with this. They have gathered that reduced salsation time could have been one of the tools. I understand that I cannot repeat the same question once in a while, and the question is now whether the Council of State will look at the other measures that this cooperation project in Rogaland has pointed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1405	I will consider different measures from the point of view that we do not want fireworks hazards. It is for this reason that the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness now invites representatives from the municipalities, fire services, police and fireworks importers to participate in a working group to look at how to put the unwise use to life. I assume that measures to bring this about will be reviewed on a broad basis. There are many ideas about this in the public debate, including: that you can concentrate your use at certain places and that you can do it with a particular supervision, etc. It's in this debate between what we can call civil society, reading the community, and responsible authorities I want suggestions on the table. The proposals made through the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness will be taken into account. The representative and I have the same point of view. We don't want to have that number of damage, and we want to control unwise use. It's a common goal. Then I'll listen to the suggestions that come to me through the group I've already mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1414	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1417	I have the following questions: ‘In many cases, today’s power generation grant schemes testify to environmental symbols more than sensible energy policies. For example, it is possible to produce electricity in some drinking water tunnels. Such a measure uses existing pipeholes and water storage facilities, with virtually no negative environmental impact. At the same time, this has higher construction costs than other hydropower, and is therefore often downgraded. Does the Council of State believe that wind power is right to receive subsidies while such environmentally friendly hydropower projects are denied?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1426	There is a broad consensus in Stortinget on our objective of an environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and energy production. This is made visible, inter alia: by means of a concrete objective for the construction of wind turbines, which requires a generation capacity of 3 TWh per wind turbine by 2010. years. The intention is that the different framework conditions of the authorities and our natural assumptions for wind power generation should help actors to find wind power projects so interesting that they are decided to develop to the extent that the authorities have set their sights. Most wind power projects depend on economic instruments to be realised, but there is a significant potential for cost reductions and improved profitability for wind power. The aid schemes are designed in such a way that each project will receive the lowest possible amount of aid, but at the same time sufficient for the project to become profitable. In connection with St.meld. No 18 for 2003-2004, on security of supply for electricity, etc., provided the Government with a strategy for increasing the establishment of small hydropower plants. There is still a significant potential for hydropower in Norway, and it is important to strengthen the basis for more hydropower generation, for example by: improving the framework conditions for micro, mini and small power plants. In the strategy, we have focused on making the procedure simpler and more effective. At the same time, we introduce measures to make the development of such facilities more profitable. In this respect, it refers to adopted amendments to the tax rules which entered into force on 1 January 2004 and the ongoing work on a green certificat market. In addition, there are proposals for a substantial increase in the overall level of treatment, for access to concession treatment of micro- and mini-power plants in sheltered watercourses and for the establishment of a centre of expertise for small-scale power plants. The Government is continuing to support projects related to research and development of new technologies for micro, mini and small power plants. Aid for small-scale research and development is, in the Government's view, more appropriate than providing financial support for several small-scale projects. With new technologies, power plants will make greater use of their potential, and expansions will be more profitable. For the financial year 2004, this item was linked, inter alia, to: development of new technologies and competences increased by 3 million. NOK 6 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1437	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I found disappointing. Of course, you can ask yourself if you should at all be involved in subsidising power generation in the energy storm power plant in Norway. But when a person is first going to operate with that kind, in my view, it must be completely indifferent to the methods or technology used to increase the production of power. Does the Council agree that technology-neutral instruments need to be based on far more widely and channelling the funds to which they spend most of their resources in the form of increased production?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1444	I have to say that I'm a little surprised that there's some disappointment that we're thinking about the future and what's sustainable. I think the generations after us, when they look back, will appreciate that we actually ventured to think forward, about what energy forms and energy solutions we're going to have in this country. Of course, we want to figure out different types of technological solutions for power needs. It was just supposed to be missing. That's why research and development are important precisely in this area in order for us to move forward, because we don't have all the knowledge we would like to have per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1451	I thank the Council again for the answer. The government is obliged by the Stortinget to promote its own case on a green certificate market no later than now in the spring session, as the Council of State pointed out in its first response. The Minister for Oil and Energy said in the Question Time of 11 February: ‘Certificateable plants for electricity production starting after 1 January 2004 will be able to participate in a green certificate system, even if such a system had to be established after that date.’;» Will the Council of State elaborate on what the Government adds to the name ‘certificated installations’ and clarify, both for me and not least for those who are to invest, where one intends to list such certification facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1465	Some work will still be required in this area to answer all the questions asked here. But this is a way to go, which we have faith in, and which requires work. We know that other countries have gone this way before us. We'll probably come back to this kind of question in the future. We believe that this type of certificate is an important incentive to achieve the goals we have in this area. But it will probably come back to you by the Secretary of State for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1473	The question is as follows: ‘From Bergen, two cases of bullying in which the victim has been exposed to gross violence from fellow students have recently become known through the media. In both cases, gross bullying has taken place for a long time and has ultimately resulted in physical and mental damage. One school claims that they have been working on bullying for a long time, but the victim is still beaten while the teachers are present. The second school refers to the victim as a ‘risk student’. How do Councils follow up violent bullying to ensure assistance for victims and prevention?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1482	It is the responsibility of the school and the school owner to ensure that students are not subjected to bullying. The ministry has been working for a long time to prevent violence and bullying in school and to give each student legal protection against bullying, as I was also in the spontaneous questioning class earlier today. Through the Manifesto against bullying action plan, the Ministry, in cooperation with the manifesto parties, has implemented many key measures, followed up locally in 2003. This work is continuing in 2004. School owners and school leaders have acquired material in the form of information and action packages against unacceptable behaviour such as violence and bullying. This will support the implementation of the necessary measures to reduce multi-faceted bullying. All municipalities have been offered programs for bullying. 381 schools have launched the Olweus programme for the period 2002–04, and 184 schools are participating in the Zero programme for 2003/04, developed by the Stavanger Behavioral Research Centre. Preliminary results from schools that have worked on the programmes over some time show a clear decrease both in the incidence of bullying students and in students who are bullying. School owners and schools develop locally adapted plans that are responsible for both management, teachers, students and parents. It is important to facilitate continuous and long-term work against bullying. An action package for combating bullying in higher education is also launched this spring. Section 9a-1 of the Training Act states: ‘All pupils in primary and secondary schools are entitled to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning.’ The school's responsibility for creating and maintaining a good learning environment is made clear. § 9a–3 of the Training Act obliges the school and individual employees to act if they have knowledge or suspicion that a student is exposed to offensive words or acts such as bullying, discrimination, violence or racism. The Education Act Chapter 9a also provides students and parents with greater opportunities for user involvement, including: with a clearer right of appeal than before. The State shall supervise the school's compliance with the requirements of Chapter 9a. In addition, in cooperation with the Ministry, most of the counties have organised conferences for school owners, school managers, pupils and parents on the requirements of Chapter 9a.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1498	It is true, as the Council of State says, that we affected the action plan in the spontaneous Question Time. In the meantime, from asking the question to now, I have got a plan of action, and I see that there are things that are obviously missing, among other things. relationships related to issues such as this. Does the Ministry of State follow up that the supervisory authorities are more closely involved in such matters as I have referred to, i.e. those containing brutal, violent bullying, and are supervisory reports on such matters followed up by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1505	I cannot go directly into this specific matter. However, it is quite clear that the legal remedies we have introduced are much stronger than those we had before, because it means that the student and/or the student's parents will be able to regard the school's inaction when they complain, as a simple decision and thus as a basis for complaint. You can complain to the school owner, the municipality, or you can complain to the county council. So here's where you have responsibility for supervision. However, the aim of all the work we do is, of course, to avoid getting there and that it is possible to initiate responses, first of all to prevent bullying, but if you have not managed to prevent it, to take action at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1510	Finally, a small supplement: in fact, some schools actively opt out of the recommended anti- bullying programmes, such as those on the Internet. is cleared through the department. Does the Council of State think that it gives good signals to students and parents? That's the one. The second is that through the ‘School Port’, we will get a survey of the learning environment. But it's based on student inspectors at selected class steps, i.e. at the 7th and 10th stages of primary school. How should the monitoring of the learning environment, especially of bullying, be carried out for all students at all class stages and also through questions to supervisors?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1517	What I didn't have the opportunity to mention instead is that of course we get reports from School-Norway via the county council, and to the annual status reports also from the Learning Centre. So there it will also come. Environmental studies will then be produced on the ‘School Gate’, which the representative was present with regard to the pupil inspectors. However, there is nothing in the way that regular parental surveys are also carried out, which may probably be more relevant when children are young. So to the question of schools that actively opt out programs. Then you have to ask yourself what the reason is. The reason why we didn't want to introduce an obligation to implement certain programs is that the schools are very variable. The problems vary, the size of schools varies from two to 2,000 students in Norway, and it is clear that the way to attack possible bullying could also vary. However, I believe it has a dispersal effect in the sense that when you train inspectors through the Olweus programme, etc., it will spread to other schools when you get positive results.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1527	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education: ‘Recently, there have been statements suggesting that in the state special schools too, abuses were made against children and young people. In the case of parts of child protection institutions, extensive investigations have revealed serious infringements. There is no reason to assume that the situation should be different at state special schools. It is important that those who, after many years of silence, are able to talk about what happened are believed. Will the Council of State take the initiative to detect possible abuses at special schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1536	In connection with the cases of abuse in children's homes, enquiries have also been made to the municipality of Bergen from persons who have been in special schools and who have been subjected to abuse. All those who have contacted have been asked to contact the Ministry of Education and Research, possibly the Justice Secretariats. Both places may submit an application for a cheap payment from the State. Children’s, youth and family management, BUFA, the Ministry of Children’s and Family Affairs, have also received enquiries on special schools, as well as on special schools. These too have been referred to the Ministry of Education and Research with guidance on the cheap compensation scheme. Each year, the Ministry of Education and Research receives a not insignificant number of applications for lavishness allowances from persons who have been in special schools, state or municipality. The reasons span a wide range, from minor neglect to physical punishment, and in some cases to serious sexual abuse. I initially agree with the representative of Reikvam that there is no reason, unfortunately, to assume that the situation should be different in special schools than in child protection institutions. However, it is often difficult to establish the reality of such cases. In 1967, the Ombudsman, on his own initiative, conducted a study in three special schools as a result of media redundancies that contained allegations of abuse. The report contains critical comments, including: on the supervisory committees and two cases where rice has been used as a penalty method are reported. In the case of other allegations, it is stated that ‘the present explanations are highly contradictory and the evidence is not sufficient to establish what has happened or has not happened. [[is]] It will hardly be possible today to clarify the actual situation further, at least not without further extensive investigation.» So far, the cases concerning the reimbursement of expenses I have referred to above have not in themselves triggered any further investigation initiatives. To date, the Department has received a few enquiries about special schools with reference to the orphanages, even though I have been quite clear in the media that we would like to welcome enquiries from people who believe that they have something to tell. In any case, I do not think it is unlikely that the department will receive further enquiries in the future, and I am naturally listening to all the requests received on this matter. I'm open to taking steps to investigate to the extent that the Department's information gets, this is what this is all about. I would also like to stress that the Befring Committee, set up just before Christmas by the Ministry of Children and Family to monitor the scale and background of care failure and abuse against orphans in the period 1945-1980, will also look at abuses against children placed in specialised schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1549	I thank you for the answer, which I experience as positive in many ways. First of all, I think it is very good that the department takes seriously the individuals who are going there and that they are being assessed in relation to the cost-benefit ratio. I think that's very good. But we also have to be concerned with the second part, that's that more people are coming, and that someone is afraid to start talking about it. It's important that it's allowed to talk about it. The best way we can show that it's allowed to talk about this is to say that we believe in you, and we'll try to discover what's happened. I understood it this way from the answer from the Council of State that she is willing to go in and consider a larger survey. My appeal to the Council of State is that she simply takes this in advance. When adults today claim to have been assaulted, we take it seriously, we believe in them, and then we choose to conduct a comprehensive investigation to discover this. That I think will make it easier for others to stand up to what they've experienced.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1558	I'm trying to take this very seriously. In connection with the issues raised in the media, I tried to be very clear that we wanted the people who had something to tell me to contact the department. This has led so far to five individual enquiries to the department. Of these, one is shaped as a claim for compensation and can be dealt with as such. We have procedures in place in the ministry to provide answers to all those who turn to them, and they will receive guidance in the sense that they will know how to apply for cheap substitutes, if any. So everyone is now being treated individually in a good way. If major own-initiative studies were to be carried out without a greater basis, I think it would be reasonable and reasonable to await the Befring Committee, as very many of the children would be affected, also likely to have been subject to child protection decisions. I have this for observation, and I ask you to contact me if you have anything to tell me. Everything is to be taken seriously and seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1567	I think it is a strong and clear signal that the Council of State here gives, that those who experience it so that they have been subjected to abuse, contact, so that we can at least get some idea of the extent of this, and that we can possibly initiate a larger investigation. As I said before, I think one of the most important things is that we believe in those who are coming, and the best way to do it is to try together to discover what has happened. I'm absolutely sure that means a lot to those who have been attacked, so that they will have a better life in the future. It's important. So a small supplement: New Time has revealed that there has also been an abuse in Norwegian private schools abroad that receive state aid. It has, among other things, have been found to have been assaulted in some schools. Does the Council of State think that it might also be appropriate to go in and look at the kind of schools and, if necessary, to strengthen the supervision of the schools we have abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1576	This is also a topical issue in the Department for the moment. The Ministry of Education and Research is primarily responsible for the training itself out. We cannot regulate the growing-up environment or child protection legislation in other countries. We can't do that, but we're responsible for the training done at these schools. We have tried to strengthen our responsibilities, including: by establishing a separate PPT service for the rest of the world, to assist students in need of that type of support. I can also tell you that in the near future, together with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, we are going to visit Spain to discuss the situation more closely. I also noticed that at the start of the meeting today a proposal was made here in the Chamber that intends to look at the child protection legislation for children who attend Norwegian schools abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1583	We're now going back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1590	This question, from the representative of Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister of Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1593	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘On the Finansministeriet’s websites on the 2004 State Budget, it is stated in the County Survey for Eastfold that ‘€4.25 million is given to fishing ports in the Utgårdskilen in Hyler’. The Coastal Directorate has informed the municipality that it is unknown to them that 4.25 million have been allocated. kr for the extension of Utgårdskilen to the State budget for 2004. Has the Ministry of Finance been misinformed, or has the Ministry of the Coastal Directorate not been informed of the allocation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1602	In addition to the Ministry of Fisheries's budget, the following amounts have been allocated to Utgårdskilen: One-75 million. kr, which was granted over the 2000 budget. There were grants to new Liekai on the west side of Utgårdskilen. As stated by the municipality, this measure has now been implemented and this sum will be paid in 2004, as planned in the budget. However, it is assumed that the audited accounts for the measure are submitted before the final payment, in line with all practice. In addition: 3.5 million. kr, which was granted over the 2003 budget. This allocation was decided in 2003 following the presentation by Hyler of large development plans in and in connection with Utgårdskilgen fishing port facilities. These funds can be disbursed at the earliest in 2004. So it's set at 1.75 million. NOK plus 3.5 million. kr, i.e. A total of 5.25 million. kr to planned development measures at the port of fishing in Utgårdskilen. 3.5 million. kr could be transferred to 2005, if funds cannot be disbursed in 2004 under the guidelines on grants to port facilities. The funds have been allocated over the heading Grants to fishing ports in the Coastal Works budget in 2000 and 2003 respectively. The appropriations are also set out in the Coastal Works Disposal Plan, drawn up each year in connection with the submission of St. Prp. No 1 for the Ministry of Fisheries. In addition to the budget line Grants to fishing port facilities are granted for berths, moles and extensions of up to 50 pst. of the cost. Until now there has been very good contact between the Municipality of Hyler and the Ministry of Fisheries and between the Municipality of Hyler and the Swedish Coast Guard Agency. That is why I am probably a little surprised by the strategy and opinions of the rapporteur in the media, nevertheless because a meeting between the Municipality of Håler and the Swedish Coast Guard Agency was concluded by 16 February this year. At that time the municipality was informed that the grant letter from the Swedish Coastal Works could not be drawn up before an application was made containing the information enabling the Coastal Works to determine which costs are eligible and which are not. The funds will not be disbursable until work is started and the final payment will not take place before the completion of the certificate and audited accounts are available. This is a completely normal procedure for this type of grant. The problem is that the municipality of Håler has not submitted an application that is good enough in relation to the legislation that all municipalities must comply with. There is also no basis today to promise appropriations in addition to the 5.25 million. kr. But as I have said on many occasions: I have been, and I am, positive to the port of fishing in Utgårdskilen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1627	I thank you for your answer. When the 2003 budget was presented, there was also similar information on the websites of the Ministry of Finance, and that was about 3.5 million. kr. Based on the answer given, it is clear that it is the same money that has been sold once more. At least there is a misinformation on the Ministry's website. Therefore, I do not fully understand that the Council of State is surprised by the rapporteur's opinion, because it must be natural for the municipality to assume that it was 4.5 million. kr. It is clear that the procedures set out by the Council of State must be followed. But the important thing now is that the commitment that the Minister of Fisheries has shown to the State – and I would like to commend him for it – is followed up, so that the municipality can continue planning in confidence that there will be more funds when the funds already allocated are exhausted from the work being started.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1636	Yes, it is correct that the County Survey shows this amount of 4.25 million. kr. I understand that there has been a source of misunderstanding in Whaler. Now it would probably be easier to communicate if you had checked with representatives of the Financial Committee, who probably understood what kind of money is being proposed by the Government. It is that the overview is not just for this municipality, but this municipality is the only one that has misunderstood, who has not been given the idea that this concerns both the allocation and the payment. So in this project, I and the Department have shown goodwill, and Whaler has received better and faster treatment in relation to many priority plans, precisely because I see this port as important in the Outer Oslofjord and as a fishing port. The way it's now communicated is a new way of communicating between the Hyler and the Ministry of Fisheries, and I encourage us to come back to the communication that was under the former regime in Hyler. I am sure that we will find good solutions, but I cannot promise money beyond what is, until they have presented plans that can be verified in relation to what is eligible for grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1645	I thank you for the additional response, and I understand that there will be a little bit of political pingpong in such a case. But I have not realized that neither the rapporteur in Hyler nor the administration in Hyler has been looking to score political points. It has been believed that new funds were in place, and have reacted on that basis. I interpret the Council's response so that once whaler has implemented the plans for the grant granted, they can go further with the planning in confidence that the Council of State's commitment remains there so that the plans that lie there can be fully implemented for this fishing port, which, after all, is the largest east of Egersund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1652	I have to remind you that this whole total project, that is, what is presented, is worth 82 million. kr, and it is clear that there are significant parts of the project that are not eligible. But as we have communicated to the municipality: When there is an application that we can decide on, we will decide on both the payment of the funds allocated and any future appropriations. I'm not going out and promising anything more than this, but I've shown an commitment because this is an important port for the fisheries in the Outer Oslofjord. That commitment I intend to continue. I have therefore invited the rapporteur to a meeting in the department on Friday, so that we can go through this, because in relation to the fishermen and the fishing industry we are not served by the fact that neither rapporteurs nor state councils are engaged in communication which is not direct. So I invite Håler municipalities to continue the good cooperation that we had with the former rapporteur and the former regime in the municipality of Håler.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1664	Let's move on to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1670	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The tip of the coastal fleet’s herring fishing has a weight of strong reactions, especially because, in the current regulation, there was no alert periodization. What will the Council of State do to ensure that future regulation balances industry’s need for raw materials and catch levels in order to be able to plan fishing over the year, in the north and in the south?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1679	I have recorded that there have been strong reactions to herring regulation – not in the whole country, but in some regions. Like Mr Jacobsen, I am concerned about the predictability of nutritionists both at sea and on land. Therefore, when we set regulations for the different fisheries for the following year in December, we are concerned that the actors should know what they have to do with beyond the year. The regulation of the year, as regards the periodicisation of coastal fleet herring, is consistent with the last nine years of periodicisation practice. So there's nothing new that's introduced. In November, the Norwegian Government recommended that fishing be stopped when 80000 tonnes had been taken from the quota of the year, and the FHL asked for immediate cessation of fishing by 19 February at the latest. Since 1996, the fishing activities of the coastal group for Norwegian herring have been subject to a period of between 35 pst. and 41 pst. the allowance of that group has been taken during the first six months. The same thing has happened this year. This is a distribution policy decision agreed by all parties and intends to ensure that a given share of herring fishing takes place in North Norway and is delivered to the Nordic industry. It has all been agreed up to now. The recommendation from the Board of Regulators, where both the land and the sea are represented, was that fishing in 2004 should be regulated with maximum quotas and periodically so that 41 pst. the group quota for the coastal fleet could be fished in the first six months. All the other fish can go. It's not a stop to no ring note or jet. In this way, I believe it should be known to all parties in December last year that the 2004 regulation would be implemented as set out in the Decision of 20 February. However, there is a complicate factor in regulation, which was also well known to the industry, namely that no agreement had been reached on the distribution of herring between coastal states before the year's herring regulation was established in December. I could therefore not set a Norwegian total quota, a group quota for individual groups of vessels, or a periodication quantity for the coastal fleet. In order for the fishing to start as early as the New Year, we allowed it to start, however, by the fact that the individual vessel still had fishing opportunities. After the failure to reach a herring distribution agreement in February, in the so-called five-party negotiations, we set the first half-year accrual quota of 77 258 tonnes, on 19 February, in line with the decision of the Board of Regulators in December. The herring fishing for the coastal fleet was then stopped on 20 February, when 80 500 tonnes of the fish were taken, i.e. an overfishing of 3000 tonnes. Unfortunately, the stop in herring fish illustrates the main problem in the coastal fleet, namely overcapacity. The period quantity has been fished quickly, both because the herring was well available, and because we have a large fishing and production capacity, an overcapacity. Predictability in regulation is important, and then it is important that we also bring down overcapacity. Therefore, I think it is important that we stick to regulations that have been agreed by all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1698	I thank you for your answer. In the previous question, there was a lot of talk about communicating. But the ministry and the Minister of Fisheries could not have acted in another way, so that we had avoided the herring peak coming about like the Christmas evening on the herds of fishermen, so that they themselves could have been able to plan their own fish better. It's not clear here. Nordmøre Fiskerlag goes straight out and says that they have not gone for herring stop, as the Minister for Fisheries claims they have done. When the sea boils of herring off the moor coast, it is not strange that the fishermen react. And there are several fishermen who have said that they have been in contact with the department and have not been told that it would be periodication. Why has the Minister not made sure that fishermen were more banned from this situation, which came on quite abruptly?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1709	Any stop will come in a hurry. Not least in the last week we fished 18 000 tons. That's approximately equal to that. three weeks of fishing on average over the previous weeks. It exploded, as the herring fish often do. Then it is that when the quota is taken it must be stopped at some point. We even allowed an overfishing. It can't be any surprise that we have a periodicization, which we've done in the last nine years. One might say that it is right that the local or regional fisheries laws have not given their advice. However, Norway’s Fisheries Team, which is an umbrella organisation for all, has been quite unambiguous in its recommendations. I have to base the recommendations made by the main organisations in the Board of Regulators, which aim to regulate this. And so it has been agreed that such a regulation should be made, not least in the interests of the industry in North Norway. But it is such that fishermen at More have participated and can participate on exactly the same conditions as other vessels at the time the quantity is not confiscated. They have had exactly the same opportunity as any other fisherman.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1716	I thank you again for your answer. I also realize that it is difficult to have regulations for an industry along the whole coast combined with the need for fishermen to fish when the fish is available. But fishing is also employment on land. We have the situation in More and Romesdal that we have at least five receptions that are so small that they are unable to accept from the large ocean-going naval fleet. And the concern for these receipts has not been taken into account, as I can see. And could it be right that less reception should not get herring due to stop directly in the coastal emergency fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1725	We could have avoided this by having vessel quotas on the coastal fleet. The fishermen have asked to be released, because that means that there will be less herring for each boat. In the case of industry in the West, it is primarily the benefit of the 60 pst quota, of which the ring-fleet fleet has approx. 50 pst. That's 75 pst. by the fleet registered south of the Nordic region. 9 pst. the quota belongs to the trawl fleet. 95 pst. by the fleet registered south. It is a full opportunity for the industry in the West and in North Norway to compete for this raw material, regardless of where it is caught. The fishermen can go north and south, which they also do. But for those fishermen who have planned their fishing, it would be very unfortunate if I were to regulate the fishing from day to day and decide the regulation and stop from a day-to-day situation. I have to regulate the fishing from a long-term perspective and long-term planning, so that fishermen have predictability. What you're asking for now is to get unforeseeable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1739	‘According to a statement in the Address Paper on 11 February, two aircraft from Braathens and Onions were on a collision course over Brandbu in Oppland on 3 June last year with 156 passengers on board. It was the automatic collision alerting system in the planes that prevented the worst aircraft accident in history over mainland Norway. Will the Council of State contribute to a mandatory anti-collision system requirement for all types of aircraft operating between Norwegian airports?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1746	As a member of the European Aviation Organisation Joint Aviation Authorities, Norway will comply with the provisions in force at all times regarding requirements for equipment on board Norwegian aircraft. As regards collision avoidance systems, this system was introduced as a requirement in Norway from 1 January 2000 for aeroplanes above 15 tonnes or more than 30 passenger seats. From 1 January 2005, the collision avoidance system will also be mandatory for small aircraft in all these JAA countries, i.e. aeroplanes with take-off weights above 5700 kg or having more than 19 passenger seats. This will include the majority of the Norwegian passenger fleet, and from 1 January 2005 there will only be some smaller aeroplanes in acquisition aviation which do not have anti-collision equipment installed. Mandatory requirements for new safety promotion equipment in aeroplanes and aerodromes will normally be introduced with a certain transitional period, so that the aviation industry has a practical and economic opportunity to get the equipment in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1755	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State confirmed that today, therefore, it is air carriers and aircraft types operating on the short-haul network that do not have this equipment and do not have a requirement to do so. Here is the State Council in the situation that she has direct control of how this can be done in the future, by requiring, when tenders are made for the Short Path Network, that for the aeroplane types to be used, it be mandatory to have this system on all aeroplanes. My question then becomes to the Council of State on the next round of the short-haul network will be for all types of aircraft to operate the short-haul network to have this collision alert system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1766	What I said in my reply instead was, first of all, that this collision equipment is now being ordered for more people. We are expanding the requirement to be much more extensive than it has been to this day. That means that very much, not to say almost all, traffic in Norway will be covered by this legislation. Where we have aircraft types that will not be covered by this, it will be that we are dependent on international cooperation in this area. If this were to be the case for Norway to introduce an additional national requirement, this would lead to the refusal of access to Norwegian airspace by foreign companies with aeroplanes in this category without this equipment. In other words, we're very dependent on having a common code internationally on this. We have. We talked earlier today about the zero vision in terms of road safety. This is a very high priority area both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1773	Thanks for the answer, but I did not understand that the question was answered directly. In the case of traffic on the Short Path Network, where the State purchases services, the State also has the opportunity to require such a system to be applied to all aeroplane types. Here, then, the Council of State has direct control. The question was whether such requirements would be imposed by the State Council when the offer on the Short-Range Network is to be made next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1780	Now very much of this short-haul network will be affected by the legislation coming in 2005, i.e. that there will then be a smaller part of the network that is not affected by this. If we were to choose to add it to the next call, we would have to consider it. Then we have to assume that the same legislation applies everywhere. But we also have to know what we want. Is it the law, or is it the tender we're going to put it in? We have plenty of time to assess that until then. The most important thing for me here today is to stress that this is a legislation that will be considerably tightened up from 1 January 2005, and that is the legislation we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1788	This question, from the representative of Bjørn Lothe to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1791	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: 'The Community's Central Association has launched a major project in which they will discuss community planning, etc. This KS project has been launched in consultation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. At NRK Hordaland in week 7, the municipal minister said that the department and thus the government had a view of approx. Between 10 and 15 million. kr in fresh funds for infrastructure measures for conurbating municipalities. Can the Council of State guarantee that funds will be disbursed in practice to small municipalities in the merged districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1800	In the 2004 municipal proposal, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs proposed that broadband development could be supported in areas that assess association, where this is considered essential to obtain a decentralised service offer in the combined municipality. At the same time, it was proposed to provide support for community transport projects through alternative use of ferries and beauties. A majority in Stortinget agreed to this. An assessment of any aid must be carried out, inter alia: based on the social benefits resulting from the concentration. Through any support, some of this gain is returned to the municipalities. In several cases, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has opened up support for infrastructure projects. This applies, inter alia, to: broadband support for the municipalities of Inner Sunnfjord and Hobøl-Spydeberg and support for the transport projects Imarsund and the Bjarkøy link. Aid for transport projects is based on the fulfilment of a number of assumptions, including: the quality assurance of projects in the field of transport. This support takes the form of a top-level funding in the projects, with the support of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs being limited in relation to the overall resource needs of the projects. Therefore, the realisation of projects depends on a normal priority for transport policy. I cannot give a general guarantee that funds will be given to infrastructure measures to municipalities that choose to join together. However, it will be considered to provide funds to support infrastructure projects where this is necessary for the implementation of a municipality association and the realisation of any societal gains. This must be done after a detailed assessment on a case-by-case basis, based on a request from the municipalities concerned that consider joining together. The allocation premises have been clarified in these examples before the referendum, and commit the State in line with the previous approval of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1811	It was an interesting answer, but I think there's a need for an in-depth study. The background to my question is the new debate that is now under way on municipal convergence, possibly increasing inter-municipal cooperation in many communities. On 28 January this year, a co-conspirator's county council in the Communes' Central Association said that there is a need to evaluate the municipal structure of the country. From the Government's side, there is an earlier signal of financial incentives for such processes. From the inner parts of Hordaland, where I come from, there's some kind of input into the road sector. It applies to both fjord protection projects and mountain crossings, continuing municipal convergence. In SV, we realize that it is unrealistic, based on a notion of equal treatment, and at country level, this will trigger billions of dollars above the state budget. Nevertheless, we can get processes that are positive in the towns and cities. It is important that the State of the Government provide funds that can be used by municipalities, either for specific purposes or freely. So my question is, what kind of order of magnitude can the Council of State think of such means?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1818	As I said in my answer, it is important that these projects are prioritised as ordinary transport projects, that is. that the different counties have prioritised them. As I also said, it should be essential that there is only a small top funding that is not in place. The fact that it will also give rise to a gain shall be decisive as to whether such grants will be granted. The level of grants envisaged in relation to the two concrete projects I mentioned, the Imarsund and the Bjarkøy link, has been in the range of 15 to 20 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1825	I would like to thank you for your answer. I hear what the Council says. I can only take that for information. There is a clear need for a proper signal here. The KS and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs have agreed on a cooperation project with clear objectives of achieving robust and efficient municipalities. The goal is not set, maybe it's more straight with 380 municipalities than with 150 in the future, but at least we have to have thorough and good discussions out in the community, preferably with public opinion. The size of the population is expected to cause a wide debate in the spring of 2006. If we want to do this, it's important to have an active participation from the Government's side. Can we then understand that the Council of State would be in favour of the application by all municipalities and communities which conclude that they would be tempted to have such municipal converging?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1832	To the extent that transport projects are carried out in order to trigger a community merger, as I said, a more thorough assessment is required than simply promoting a transport project in order to have a project to refer to. It must be possible to point out that this specific project has a very special impact on the bundling of municipalities. It is true that in our country there are many projects that many municipalities want, and there are many methods that can be used to implement the projects. What is special about this is that there are concrete projects that clearly contribute to making it more attractive to do a community merger, and not least that it can be pointed out that they are totally good projects from the point of view of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1841	‘VG writes on its front page on 19 February 2004 that ‘Norwegian soldiers are having fun with dog straps’. The imagery, which has also been published on the Internet, shows attitudes that violate normal ethical standards. Loose dogs have been a problem in Kosovo, as reported, among other things, by the NRC. What guidelines and powers apply to this killing of dogs, and what will the Council of State do to ensure their compliance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1848	During the last few weeks, there has been criticism of Norwegian military personnel in connection with the killing of stray dogs as part of the NATO KFOR operation in Kosovo. The defence management is serious about this and has started investigations to assess all aspects of the case. The commander of the national armed forces has established a special screening team, in addition to a military investigation commission. In addition, the Joint Operational Headquarters will have a civil investigation carried out in cooperation with the police. Until the results of the various studies are available, I will not go into the specific case. On a general basis, however, I would like to make it clear that it is unacceptable whether Norwegian military personnel have been involved in the unregulated killing of stray dogs in Kosovo. Ransom is a major problem and poses a risk to the civilian population and our personnel in Kosovo due to the risk of infection by, among others. rabies and other serious diseases. At the request of the local population, both Norwegian and foreign KFOR quotas have participated in the killing of stray dogs. KFOR stopped the organized killing of dogs in 2003, and the UN Mission in Kosovo, UNMIK, has then had its own units for the killing of dogs. Breeding animals are also a major problem in other international operations. Already in 1998, the defence developed its own guidelines for the killing of steppes in Bosnia. Guidelines for the killing of animals in Kosovo were developed by the Defence in 2000 and updated and further specified in 2003. Current guidelines provide detailed instructions on who can carry out such tasks and how to carry them out, including methods of killing them. Under the applicable legislation, only pre-authorised personnel shall be able to participate in the killing of stray dogs and shall always be responsible for the execution of the mission. An overview of the number of animals killed shall also be provided at each department and weekly reports shall be provided. The guidelines have been drawn up in accordance with the Norwegian Animal Protection Act. The Defence Manager will consider whether special measures should be taken in relation to training, training and the establishment of future strength contributions, in order to address the need for ethical and veterinary guidance. The defence emphasises that the personnel involved in international operations have positions and values built up under the mission they participate in. I feel confident that Norwegian military personnel in general have good prerequisites to solve the mission they are assigned to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1869	Let me first make it clear that once Norwegian forces of the Storting have been sent to peace operations, they should, of course, know that they have politicians in their backs, even when it turns out. But that's not what this is about, because it's about when they stick to the guidelines, the agreements and tasks that underlie the mission. Norway has clear and detailed guidelines in the operations we are involved in, and I would like to stress this. But, of course, we cannot support soldiers or commanders who cross ethical borders, break clear driving rules, or behave indiscriminately and immaturely, whether it is about shooting dogs with handguns like amusement, playing Russian reels – which actually happened in Lebanon – or, for that matter, committing abuse in the community. I am very pleased that the investigation has been started here. I am also sure that the Norwegian defence is related to the Norwegian Animal Protection Act, and that when they are commissioned to kill animals, they do it the way they usually do it at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1878	I can only confirm what the questioner here points out, namely that the killing regulations for wild dogs – in this case in Kosovo – are in line with the current animal protection regulations. This was taken care of by the last update, as I said, which happened in 2003. That is why, in line with the committee leader, I am pleased that the defence itself has responded in this matter by setting up a special monitoring group, which was announced by the defence management on 20 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1883	This is in many ways about multiple cases. It's about how to kill dogs, if you're set to do it. It's also about how to behave in your spare time. It's about how soldiers are trained for difficult conditions. And there I think maybe we have the most important debate in the cold water of this matter: how they've trained both ethically, physically and mentally. It's also about the role of the command, and what kind of management training we have. Commanded in the field – are they old enough, or are they too young? I also think it's about the possibility that macho subcultures can occur within some troops. I would ask that when you examine this matter, you also look at these things, because my knowledge of the Telemark Battalion is that they have very good practice in the areas I have mentioned. Then it's all the stranger that things happen that we've now witnessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1888	Here, I would like to draw attention to a reading step by the media’s defence management, which concerns just a few of the questions raised by the questioner related to training and education. Without reading the full text, I will refer to parts of it. It is said quite clearly that soldiers today must be able to have two thoughts in their heads at once. They must train hard on the possibility of assignments and at the same time be prepared to calm down until the boring. This is a well-known problem. In other words, you have to be able to deal with stress and waiting without legitimizing that it should be exposed to aggressive, improper behavior. I have full confidence that the defence management, as the right actor here, is handling this in a good way. I also have full confidence, in line with the questioner, that the quality of and the general reputation of the soldiers we're sending out is on the highest level.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1898	My question to the Minister of Defence is: "The defence sells a lot of equipment they don't need due to. restructuring. Something is sold in regular auctions so that everyone has the opportunity to city, but something is also sold in large lots, such as: MB Field wagons. Had it not been better that these too were sold in regular auctions or were offered reasonably to, among other things. Order of the Home Guard and soldiers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1907	In connection with the conversion of the defence, a separate project was created for the disposal of material. The disposal project is organised after 1 January 2004 under the Defence Logistics Organisation – Operational Division. The disposal project is responsible for the disposal of surplus material in the Defence. There are several methods by which this material can be disposed of. The three most common are sales, free transfer and destruction. In line with the disposal of the Defence Property, Construction and Facilities, the FLO is required to dispose of surplus material as quickly as possible, while at the same time generating maximum revenue for the Defence. The disposal shall continue in line with the applicable provisions, known as Defence Service Regulations – Class 7. Under the provisions, surplus material at one point in the defence will first be attempted to be recovered elsewhere in the defence, that is, by transferring between the defence sectors and the Home Office. There will also be the possibility of free transfer for other purposes. In this context, procedures for dialogue with state institutions and humanitarian organisations are in place. In relation to different ways of selling the surplus stock, different forms of auctioning are the most common and the most experienced procedure in the defence. In order to achieve the objectives of the conversion of defence, the FLO is now seeking to increase the rate of disposal. It has, among other things, As a result, the number of batch sales has increased, giving rise to good revenues and reduced costs. In the case of batch sales, competition is also created between different operators, either by their own written bidding rounds or by auction. Although some exemptions have been granted, the disposal project’s assignment to the FLO to maximise sales revenue would not comply with the provisions and mandates of the FLO to actively offer surplus material more reasonable than at market prices. Compared to the sales method, the sale of individual products versus batch sales, the FLO has experience with the sale of Mercedes-Benz 240 field wagons from three different stocks in Finnmark. The result of this batch sale was fast implementation and very good prices. In general, it has been found that the prices of surplus material from individual and batch sales respectively have remained at approximately the same level. This means, therefore, that batch sales are entirely in line with current regulations, as was also clarified by former Councillor Løwer in response to the very representative of Bredvold on 24 March 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1930	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a complementary answer, although I may not agree with all that the Council of State answered, for my question is about how the defence manages its values, including disposes of its equipment when necessary. At these times, when we are conducting the restructuring of the defense, it is necessary to dispose of some equipment. But a lot of this equipment is very good, and among other things. The railcar I'm referring to is to be sold. If my information is correct, approx. 700 Mercedes Geländewagen is being sold this year. These have been dry, they haven't driven on salt, and they have a low mileage, so these are cars that are interesting for a lot of Norway's population. Then I think it might be wrong to sell these as parties and give companies a big profit from them. There was an ad in the VG here during the day when these cars were sold for approx. 60 000–70 000 kr, including pendants. This I believe is significantly higher than the Defense could have been given if they had sold them. So I still believe that there is a lot of money to pick up in regular auctions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1937	The defense has used lot sales because it has given us very good prices in experience, and because it has been a much faster way to dispose of important material than to take individual cars and have frequent auctions. It is also entirely in line with the rules on batch sales. However, I share the ambition of the person asking that the Home Office and other parts of the Defence must also be able to avail themselves of good material. Here I just want to inform you that the Home Security will be allocated material of the type Mercedes-Benz 240, which the questioner addresses, and I have been confirmed in a letter from the Chief FLO dated 2 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1944	Then I can ask the question, When did that letter come out? What I'm also thinking about is what we did years ago. Some home security officers and soldiers were then able to buy cars reasonably, against the fact that they were used during HV exercises. They bought them cheaply against being put at their disposal and spent on exercises, and the defense had no more expenditure on it. Otherwise, I think it is good that some cars, including military trucks of type M6 are given to humanitarian organisations, as is being done. But still I think it would have been more right that we'd spent more time, because it's said that batch sales are fast and efficient, and that's good with money, but I think we're spending a little too short a time, that it's the most important thing with speed. I want as much as possible to have the opportunity to be in and out of town, to buy this equipment that the total defense needs, and that society has been with and funded.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1953	I think I'll repeat parts of the answer to the then Council of State, Løwer, when a similar question was raised. State Council Løwer then said: ‘The purpose of carrying out a disposal using the form of batch sales is to ensure the maximum net economic return on defence.’ And on the other hand, ‘A batch sale therefore means that the defence saves costs by avoiding the need to resell vehicles at regular intervals.’;» She also said that: ‘It is important to maintain the main principle applicable to the disposal of such vehicles, namely to ensure the highest possible net return on defence’. It has been taken into account, and it will be taken into account, even though I, as I was involved in it, also open up the possibility that the Home Protection and Material for their organisation has a high priority, and that in this case they will actually also get the MB 240 field vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1976	‘There is growing concern that the establishment of significant defence activities in Hedmark and in particular in Rena and Elverum is not being implemented as planned. The consideration of investments already made, the plans of the municipalities and the defence provide for predictability in the establishment. To what extent are there today changed conditions for the establishment of defence activities at the Base Østerdalen and Regionfelt Eastland, and what level of ambition does the Government currently have for this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1983	The military investigation of the Armed Forces Chief was handed over to the Department on 8 December last year and constitutes the professional military contribution to the forthcoming long-term defence plan. The long-term plan is under preparation, and I am asking for an understanding that I cannot comment on the content of that proposition until it is actually promoted. It is important that such issues are addressed in an overall context. However, I would point out that the head of defence in his military professional investigation, which is publicly known, does not make up for changes with major regional consequences regarding the presence and activity of the defence in Rena and in Elverum. The Østerdal region will continue to be a significant area of defence, especially for the Army. In addition, the Eastern region, once completed, will provide the defence with a very good basis for training and practice, which is of course critical for maintaining the quality of defence units. A very important prerequisite for future activities in the Østerdalen garrison is just to complete the region of the Eastern region as quickly as possible. Here we need all the help we can get, including from local politicians who want the defence to be a significant player in the Østerdalen. The Government's ambition is to meet the Storting's assumption that the field will be used in 2005 and will be completed mainly in 2008. Defence construction and Åmot Municipality have good progress and a good process in planning defence activities around the region of Eastern Europe. Voluntary agreements for the acquisition of all land in the field have also been concluded, and the settlement of claims is sought in amicably. I am therefore optimistic, and there are no plans on the part of the Government to reduce our ambition for the Eastern Region and, of course, the important activity associated with the Baltic. What I can say about the new long-term defence plan is what has been communicated, among other things. in St. Prp. No 1 in the past, namely that we will seek action to increase the operational capability of the defence by releasing resources in the logistics and support activities in order to prioritize operational operations and material investments. Of course, it will affect all parts of the country and not the Østerdalen in particular. Other details will be returned and presented to the Government in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e1996	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased with the signals of continued bet. I am also pleased that the Council of State signals optimism in relation to this initiative. There is probably also reason to point out that the unrest surrounding such large defence establishments often hurts more than perhaps both opposition and position wants. Because there is a current issue, as the High Representative for Defence also stated in Østlandingen on 14 February, that there is a reduction in career jobs in Østerdalen garrison. It gives an external signal that can prevent, among other things, permanent residence of those working in the defence establishment, which is not good either for the defence or for the municipalities. This makes it necessary at least to try, regardless of plans and propositions that come, to look at the possibilities to ensure that, among other things. The career positions remain in the Østerdalen. I'd like to hear what the council thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e2003	Here, it's a little bit difficult to deal with the Østerdalen in particular, especially since we haven't presented the proposition yet. But what I can say in general, based on the military professional investigation, is that in the future, there will be fewer officers' positions at the higher level and more positions in the lower tiers and too skilled. It will affect the whole country. So if the questioner here with career positions thinks officers at the higher level, then there will be fewer of them in the whole country, not the Østerdalen in particular. I have also noticed that Colonel Arne Schreirpe in Hærstaben has stated in an interview with Hamar Arbeiderblad on 24 February that there are no significant reductions in Østerdalen garrison. It is more likely to be an increase, according to the military professional investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e2008	I am pleased with the state council's observation of this. I think the career workplaces are important in relation to the activities of the Defence Agency, in order to get calm and to get the effect out of the establishment that you have after all, but they are not least important for the municipalities that have this, no matter where it may be. It has been produced, at least in the media, as if Østerdalen garrison is now getting less than what was intended, and that there has been a division of both north and in relation to Oslo. But again, this is really a matter of predictability, clarity, security and tranquillity, and I also understand that this must be combined with the potential for change and the will to change. At the same time as this discussion, both politicians and others have played out to move both weapons of engineering and artillery weapons from these establishments. A technical workshop at Elverum, recently opened, is also about to be moved, so it is no wonder that there is considerable concern about this. The real question is: is the Minister of Defense able to reassure these communities so that they can enjoy the establishment on which I believe both the defence and the community have much to gain?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e2013	I don't know if it will reassure the questioner, but I was in North Norway not many weeks ago, and I got far on the same questions there. I think we should all be aware that when we change an organization, for example. in the direction of more operational activities, more practice, more training, and less administration, less workshop operations, less support activity, it will affect the whole country. And that would mean that there might be a slightly different kind of jobs in the future than what we have right now. But what's important to communicate from my side, both in the case of the Østerdalen, and in the case of North Norway, both Inner and Outer Troms, is that the defense has the ambition to be right there. But everyone has to be aware that there may be a slightly different type of jobs in the future than what we have had in the past, because it's part of the transition requirement we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e2031	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e2045	This question has been withdrawn. That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-03.ana.ud670e2058	There is no record.
