ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e44	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e59	The budgetary position of the Foreign Affairs Committee is based on the framework adopted by the Stortinget on 25 November of this year, and the total expenditure framework of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget is approximately DKK 19.9 billion. This year, too, the budgetary position of the Foreign Affairs Committee shows that there is broad agreement on the broad lines of Norwegian foreign policy. Although the different parties have different priorities for some items, there is reason to stress the importance of such broad consensus, not least on the high level of assistance. It is only the Progress Party that continues to cut drastically in the allocations to the world's poorest. The Workers' Party's alternative approach to the financial position would give rise to some items in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget compared to the Government's proposal, and I would like to briefly mention these. The result of the draft budget is serious for a number of organisations supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. We would therefore increase the grants to organisations working in the fields of information work for peace and information on European cooperation, as well as for disarmament and foreign policy research and development by 9 million. kr, to reverse the cut government added up here. Not least, we believe it is important that such organisations have the opportunity to receive financial support at a time when there may be more than anything else to debate on international issues. The working party would also grant 2 million. kr to reorganise the debts of the Rafto House, so that they could pay off debts and thus make the operation sustainable. When there was no arrangement for this in the financial position, I am very pleased that we have now received a majority in the Foreign Affairs Committee to earmark 2 million. NOK to this. Long-term strengthening of Norway's foreign cultural engagement has been an important issue for the Workers' Party for a long time, and we would therefore increase the funding for foreign press, cultural and information purposes by 3.5 million. kr. We felt that there was a need to continue some support for the candidate countries Romania and Bulgaria, which are now negotiating EU membership, until they could be admitted as members in 2007. We therefore proposed 5.5 million. We are also of the opinion that we must now have a new action plan for the candidate countries. In addition to Romania and Bulgaria, Turkey and Croatia are both candidate countries. Macedonia has also applied for membership, and the idea is that all countries in the Western Balkans will join the EU when they are ready for it. With the same starting point as the action plan for the candidate countries, namely to increase contact and cooperation between Norway and each candidate country, it is our opinion that a new action plan should be developed. Then to Russia. The working party is committed to maintaining the level of project cooperation with Russia. In particular, we focus on health-related projects in North-West Russia and on people-to-people cooperation through the Barents Secretariat. We therefore proposed increasing the appropriation for project cooperation with Russia by 20 million. kr. In the Government's proposal, the appropriations for this purpose were thoughtfully proposed to be carried forward at the same level as last year. However, we have experienced decreases in the past, which has led to a decrease in activity. There is reason to recall the major challenges we face, among other things. in the field of health in Russia. Russian health services face a major challenge in controlling the spread of infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. However, the Labour Party must note that there was no majority for increases in these areas in the budget, as we proposed, and we have therefore joined the framework. Finally, I would like to address some of the Workers' Party's proposals for re-priorities in the aid budget. 1.2 billion people today lack access to clean drinking water, and 2.4 billion people lack access to basic sanitary services. One of the UN’s Millennium Goals on Sustainable Development is concerned, inter alia, with: halving the proportion of the earth’s population without access to clean drinking water and satisfactory sanitary conditions by 2015. We therefore believe – like those made at the hearings we had – that there is a need to strengthen Norwegian aid efforts in this area. So we're going in to spend a total of NOK 1 billion on water and sanitation over a period of five years, starting next year. That is why, together with SV, we are proposing to increase the allocation to water and sanitation by 150 million. kr. We believe that the UN should be in charge of this work, but that it should be in partnership with non-governmental organisations and multilateral bodies, for example the Asia Bank. We also propose, together with SV, to increase the allocation of the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria by 50 million. kr. These diseases are three of the most important poverty-related diseases in the world, and the Global Fund represents an additional funding mechanism to combat them. The UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, has also issued an invitation to donor countries to increase their contributions to the Fund. Finally, we are proposing an increase to the global vaccine alliance GAVI by 20 million. kr to prevent disease in the world's poorest country. When children are not vaccinated, the consequences are dramatic. According to the World Health Organization, about 1.5 million children under the age of five die from vaccine-protected diseases. In the light of the proposed increases, we have re-prioritisation of 20 million. kr within the framework. I would like to include the Workers' Party's proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e89	The representative of Thorbjørn Jagland has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e92	The government's value base and the desire to intensify the work of a world based on international cooperation are reflected in the strong support of the UN, commitment to peace processes, work on human rights, comprehensive humanitarian efforts and significant assistance to poor countries. The government’s policy makes the EEA title a clear budget winner for 2005. The recognition of the global scale of security challenges and the need to anchor international efforts in multilateral institutions are reflected in the priorities of the Government. A strong emphasis has been placed on the coherence of foreign policy instruments. But the government is quite clear in its place, at where we belong. It's in the Euro-Atlantic community. Our security is anchored in NATO, while the next case on today's map shows that the Government is actively adapting to developments in the Euro-Atlantic region. The budget increase reflects not least the government's conscious commitment to international poverty reduction. While the 2001 aid budget amounted to DKK 12.5 billion, this proposal will amount to nearly DKK 17 billion in 2005. The right is very pleased to be a contributor to this policy. We see that Norwegian contributions, although small in their overall context, are important to reduce the share of poor people in the world. Norwegian assistance is effective and has become more effective and focused during this government. More than 42 pst. of Norwegian aid goes to the poorest countries, against 35 pst. in 2001. The OECD has recently reviewed Norwegian development assistance and, according to the Evening Post on 26 November of this year, the conclusions were clear: Norway’s assistance is at the top of the world in terms of both level and efficiency. The government is constantly working to make assistance more effective, so that we can help even more. For example, Norway is now joining forces with other donors to manage assistance in some beneficiary countries jointly, thus reducing the administrative burden on the recipient countries. Norwegian health assistance, education and industrial development have been areas of activity in recent years. In addition, the Government has given international attention to its debt latency strategy through the debt latency action plan. By the end of 2003, Norway has committed SEK 1.6 billion of developing countries’ debt to Norway. These are actions that will be continued in the 2005 budget. Education is increased by 350 million. kr, the fight against HIV/AIDS is increased by 100 million. kr. Sustainable development, industrial development, agricultural development and peace building are also increasing significantly. Both health and not least the fight against HIV and AIDS are central to Norwegian development policy. For example, two global funds, the GAVI vaccine programme and the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria are allocated EUR 300 million respectively. NOK 126 million. kr. The increases proposed by the Working Party and SV are too small to calculate. The government’s assessment has been that the fight against these diseases must be carried through them, but also through other channels. Although there are still major challenges in development policy, there is a right track that leads to a greater share of aid for the poor and long-term results for the money. St. Report. No 35 for 2003-2004, which outlines the broad lines of Norwegian development policy, will also contribute to this. A large number of armed conflicts, for example: In Africa, there is a need for increased efforts from Norway as well. Although the areas in which we contribute are far from geographical, we see that these conflicts also affect us in a globalized world. Remote conflicts could have an impact on our own security, including: in the form of refugee flows, organised crime, criminal activity and international terrorism. Together, our humanitarian and emergency aid and the peace and reconciliation work are increasing by 300 million. kr in the budget. The appropriations make it possible to strengthen not only our own efforts but also the ability of the United Nations to plan and carry out peace operations. The right also supports the allocation of a single committee to continue Norway’s peace and reconciliation exposure in Cyprus. The budget reflects the government's important investment in our neighbourhoods. Nuclear safety and project support work in North-West Russia will continue at the same level as in 2004. This work is increasingly receiving international attention, which is a prerequisite for progress. The challenges require mobilization from both Europe and the United States in order to solve the many security problems we see related to Russia's nuclear heritage. Norway is facing major challenges in the coming period, related to the formulation of our foreign and security policy. There are significant changes in our neighbourhoods, where the EU process is undoubtedly the dominant force of gravity. The EU Security Strategy emphasises good transatlantic relations in order to combat existing and emerging security threats. Both Norway and Europe, for the rest, remain dependent on close cooperation with the United States. But it is important that Europe is able to contribute more. It is therefore necessary that the EU and NATO cooperate in the management of conflict and crisis situations. EU enlargement makes Norwegian interests more demanding in relation to the EU. The government therefore strengthens its efforts towards EU countries and institutions. Through the EEA financial instruments, Norway will contribute to social and economic cohesion in the enlarged EEA and to the rapid implementation of EU legislation by the new Member States. Norwegian contributions to the countries of the Western Balkans, the Caucasus and Central Asia are also of great importance to our ability to meet common European security challenges. These contributions are also significantly increased in this budget. The current budget strengthens Norway’s contribution to peace and security in a conflict-filled world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e124	Developments in the budgetary framework of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are beginning to become predictable. Substantial increases in assistance and less and less to everything else are short-lived. It is possible that this development does not concern anyone other than the Progress Party, but for us this is a development that we believe Norway and the outside world is not worthy of. We have great respect for the objectives of assistance and believe, of course, that Norway has a responsibility to help the outside world. Nevertheless, it becomes strange for us when we e.g. are able to make record transfers to the World Bank, while funding for health work in Russia is too low. As long as Russia doesn't go under the so-called ODA concept, it doesn't seem to be useful to get something worth mentioning for the population there. So we can give it to almost anything, just in Africa, while our own backyard won't be a priority. The overfocusing of the government on the ODA is not a Norwegian foreign policy, or, for that matter, the development policy is served. Now it is likely to be claimed that the Progress Party will be given its share of the responsibility for the fact that the budget has become as it has become. And that's right. We're going to recognize that. However, if we look at the budgets of recent years, with alternate budgetary partners, we will continue to see that the Stortingeet is essentially not doing anything about the aid budget, especially not with the total allocation, but also with the allocation. If that means, as someone claims, that the Storting has abdicated in relation to the aid, maybe going too far. But at least some legitimate questions can be asked. Much can be said about the different parts of the aid budget. I'll leave most of it now. In the near future, we will address the development message, and it will be a better opportunity to discuss policy principles. I would like to point out our alternative state budget, where we are making huge cuts in the aid budget. But as we cut into the ordinary chapters – in particular all that has to do with state-to-state assistance, and much of the assistance through parts of the United Nations system – we allocate $2 billion to health-oriented work. In particular, this is intended to be used for the control of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria as well as for the vaccination of children. These funds are intended to be channelled primarily through global funds and private support organisations. An area that is now experiencing cutbacks is European policy research and investigation. We believe that this is bad news, and that instead we should encourage and take care of important areas of expertise outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We think we need an active debate and policy towards Europe. We are afraid that a down-priority within this area will make us less able to make good choices in the future. Let me highlight a few points from the budget setting. It is a majority comment that concerns the need for a grant scheme in the context of the EEA financial grants, asking the Government to assess such a scheme, which could facilitate Norwegian enterprises that will participate in Norwegian and EFTA-funded projects in the new EU countries. We believe this will be a strengthening of Norwegian business and provide an important input into these countries, where we will contribute large amounts in the years to come. The entire committee, however, in a slightly different form, asks the Government to look at the opportunities for Norwegian business on Cook Islands. This case has now appeared several times between Stortinget and the department. We now hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will take the necessary initiatives to bring the matter to a successful conclusion. Another repetition is the relationship with Plan Norway. There has been great frustration, at least with the undersigned, about the way the organisation has been treated. There is now a clear lead from the Committee, and it is hoped that the Ministry will meet the Committee's expectations and the comments made. Assistance to the Palestinian territories has been of concern to the Progress Party. We've pointed this out a number of times in the past. After Yassir Arafat's death, we experience that there is a great fortune that is being fought over. We are therefore pleased that there is a majority comment asking Norway to address this problem in order to contribute to the use of this wealth and, where appropriate, other means in a way that can be beneficial to the Palestinian population, not just a few. In particular, it is important for Norway, as a significant aid operator, that we are sure that these funds do not disappear. The motivation to provide assistance can be reduced if the beneficiaries of the assistance themselves experience large assets that are used on anything other than to promote better quality of life for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e143	It's a fact that in Norway we have just over 4 million. built-in. What is not known is that we have approx. $12 million. members of Norway. When we are a member of some voluntary organization in Norway, it will say three per. person on average. We know that voluntary Norway has also been the basis for building the welfare state in Norway, because when the welfare state took over, it was the voluntary organisations that laid the foundation. If you run through Orkdal, you can see that the Orkdal Hospital says: NKS –Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association. The voluntary organizations have been the basis for all that we have built up in Norway. So when it applies to the budget that's in front of us, you're going to cut 64 pst. in a part of the most important organisations, namely peace organisations. The peace nation of Norway is cutting it down in this immeasurably important area. If we go into the world, we see that in the countries we're trying to contribute to development, there's just a lack of civil society and the lack of voluntary organisations that identify these societies. We try to be there and build up, while at home we do the opposite. We break a long political tradition, a democratic tradition, in Norway by doing it this way, precisely because one in Norway has had the tradition of giving money to those who disagreed with the Government. Whether it was environmental movement or peace movement, one always has our round hand, precisely because one has been aware that the government, as it is at most competent, and as it sits at most of the disposal capacity, wants voluntary Norway, from Berlevag in the north to Kristiansand in the south, to have the possibility of making recordings not only in the form of 1st May slogans, not only in the form of protest trains, but also in the form of thoroughly reworked recordings in the form of documents. I want to go so far as to say that, in fact, in this Iraq era, at this time when it is more and more evident that Norway is not only a nation of peace, but also an armament, we have received good reports from organizations. And it's strange that it's the same organizations it's being cut as hard as it is in this budget, when one sees that the voluntary civil defence organizations are continuing to increase by 52 million. kr, set up against the small money as a set from the peace movement. One should also be aware: yes, it's true, this budget is going to boast, it's going to happen even in SV, and yes, Norway is the world champion in aid, but we're also world champion in arms exports. The two things you've heard in the jump. It should also be informed of that part of Norwegian policy. The reason why I spend a lot of time on this is also that we see in some contexts that the basis for the development of wars and conflicts is undermined. There are weapons in place, a user's weapon instead of going into dialogue and maybe getting into civil solutions. There we have to go through our role in this area in Norway too. That is the reason why the international war against Iraq has helped to increase the recruitment of terrorism and to strengthen the mutual enemy image between the Muslim part of the world and the West. This is a dangerous development. Norway should therefore work towards strengthening the United Nations and international law and finding alternative solutions to war in conflict situations. I believe that this must also be reflected in the budgetary priorities. Norway, as a small country, also has a private interest in a world-led world order and in the fact that relations between states are regulated by international agreements and conventions. I see that the government is proposing to strengthen the United Nations in significant areas, but I think there is room for further United Nations promises. We propose in our alternative budget to increase the UN's pledges by a total of 165 million. kr. We have, just like the Progress Party, pulled down when it's on the World Bank. There we have noticed that the increases may have been unreasonably high, and therefore we have to a great extent dragged down there. We have received the first interesting signals from the working group that the United Nations has seen down on the reform of the United Nations. There has been a lot of publicity in Norway, too, not least because our former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland is in that working group. There are two main criticisms coming out. One is that the UN General Assembly has failed strongly in focusing on the most necessary themes. One may have spent too much time on resolution building, and it has a glimmer where one would really get the most important things out of it. And perhaps the worst thing is that the Security Council has not managed to react to prevent the killing of human beings. Just the expectations we had for the United Nations, they have not been able to meet. I thought it was worth noting, in these times of pre-buying as a doctrine, the advice of this group as to whether an attack is right or not. We always think of the ban on the use of power at the bottom, but the criteria are the seriousness of the threat, the purpose of the attack, whether the attack is the last resort, and whether the attack is proportionate to the threat and the measurement of consequences. There is a very positive signal coming from this working group. This could help put the UN back on the agenda. And Norway must contribute as much as we can. We need to work more actively to reform and streamline the UN while at the same time providing the UN with better economic, political and legal working conditions. This, of course, also involves a change in power, authority and resource allocation between the UN, NATO, the World Bank, the WTO, the ILO and other international forums and organisations that are important for the ability and ability of developing countries to sustainably. Important consequences of today's policies are framework conditions that are far more loss-making for the developing countries than they receive in the form of assistance. There will also be clear contradictions between a global deregulation policy with neoliberal demands for cutbacks in government expenditure on the one hand, and the desire to build up simultaneously in the developing state apparatus, good governance, welfare systems and public health and education systems on the other. We therefore need to look at development policy and aid policy in a context. Assistance policy becomes symptomatic and short-term if aid is not seen in the light of the international framework conditions, as established through international negotiations in international organisations and through the current international world order. Eating may mean that the international frameworks are more important than assistance, especially in the long term. One should also have a long-term objective of making assistance unnecessary. I'm going to say a few things about Latin America, which we've just taken in as a comment. First on Nicaragua: It is important that a signal is sent that the work that one did along the Atlantic coast there is being followed up. This applies to forestry, fishing and indigenous peoples. I would also like to mention Colombia in South America. It's important that we carry on with the work we did there at the end of the 1990s and in the first half of this century, that it be given priority, and that we perhaps even let ourselves be represented at the ambassador level. Finally, only a small correction to the cap. 151 Assistance to Asia. Afghanistan is referred to as the main co-operation country. It shall be addressed to cooperation countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e171	Shouldn't the representative bring up proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e174	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e179	Don't you have an SV proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e182	Yes, of course! Excuse me, President! I will deal with the proposal that SV has in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e187	The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, then mentioned the proposal to which he referred on request.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e191	The Christian People's Party is well pleased with the budget we are discussing today. I would like to give a special tribute to the Progress Party, which has given full support to the strong increase in the aid budget – despite the fact that the Progress Party in its own budget has cut DKK 8 billion, and has also given strong reasons for this in its comments. There it is said that the Progress Party ‘Members believe that the compulsory contribution scheme to state development aid through taxation contributes to the weakening of the individual’s personal sense of responsibility and the desire to do so. Furthermore, there is reason to point out that government development assistance is largely inefficient and costly to manage. Leaders in several of the countries receiving Norwegian development aid buy arms and luxury goods in large quantities rather than providing food and schooling to the people’. I think it is particularly gratifying, in this context, that the Progress Party has supported the strong increase in the aid budget. We live in an unfair world. Nearly 1.2 billion people are extremely poor and have less than $1 a day to live on. In Africa is 48 pst. of the population poor. Children die of hunger and of diseases that we could have cured. Both wars and natural disasters drive people away – away from their homes. Everyone has the same human dignity, with the same inviolable human rights. Development policy is not about charity, but about ensuring that all people are given the opportunity to live a life in which their fundamental rights are fulfilled, regardless of residence and ethnicity. We live in a world full of contradictions. The share of the poor in the world is decreasing, but the number has never been higher. In parts of the world, there is tremendous progress, and thousands are being drawn out of poverty. In other parts of the world, progress seems to be moving in the wrong direction. All the countries of the world have met in the United Nations on a thousand-year target that gives clear targets on the road to the main goal: a world free of poverty. Norway is a small country with great wealth. This gives us a clear commitment to take responsibility for our fellow human beings in poor countries. The Christian People's Party is building its policy on human dignity. In our aid policy, therefore, we put poverty reduction as the top target. This has consequences for the size of the aid, but equally for the device itself. This applies in relation to the priority of countries and population groups, and to the choice of sectors and policy areas. The goal is to fight for the human dignity of the poorest. The Christian People's Party is therefore very pleased that the government in the state budget next year is putting up for the biggest increase in the aid budget, NOK 1.6 billion. This is an important contribution to the fight against the world's poverty problems. In total, the Government proposes to grant EUR 16.6 billion in aid in 2005, equivalent to 0.95 pst. of Norway’s gross national income. So the aid has increased by SEK 4.3 billion, 35 pst, since the government took over. The government is following up the focus on poverty. The poorest countries now receive more than half of the total funds Norway contributes to the United Nations system and to the international financial institutions. We have a clear objective that aid should reach 1 pst. by GNI, and this target is set. When the target is reached, the level shall be kept at least 1 pst. out of the next grossing-up period. No investment is more effective in the fight against poverty than the investment in education. 115 million children, most of them girls, still lack basic education. The Christian People's Party is therefore very pleased that the Government has proposed to increase aid for education by 350 million. kr and thus doubled the bet in this field since 2002. The AIDS epidemic is one of the main barriers to development. It is therefore very important when the Government now proposes to increase HIV/AIDS control appropriations by 100 million. kr. The government also makes a strong commitment to the vaccination of children in poor countries. Norway will provide a total of DKK 2.5 billion for this up to 2010. We are pleased that the Government is now fulfilling the promise made by the Prime Minister in Johannesburg that Norway will increase its efforts in the so-called WEHAB areas – water, energy, health, agriculture and biodiversity – with a total of 375 million. kr over a three-year period. Efforts to achieve the Millennium Goal No. 10, halving the proportion of people without sustainable access to safe drinking water is very important. The 2005 draft budget represents an increase of 50 million in support of various types of voluntary action. kr. In all the budgetary proposals made by this government, the allocation to voluntary organisations and other actors in civil society has increased. The figures for 2003 now show that over DKK 3 billion, or 31.2 pst. by Norwegian bilateral assistance, channelled through non-governmental organisations and other actors in civil society. This is therefore the biggest channel for our bilateral aid efforts. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is adding up to an increase of 100 million. aid to industry and agriculture. While investment in industrial development continues at a high level, support for agricultural development is reinforced by 85 million. kr, and it will be further escalated over several years. The work on peace and reconciliation is an important part of a comprehensive development policy. In the summer, the government presented a strategic framework for the contribution of development policy to peace building. This is followed up in the budget by 60 million. kr more for so-called transitional assistance in 2005. This is assistance that contributes to the critical phase when a country has come out of a conflict. Unfortunately, many countries have experienced failure. Individual developing countries are primarily responsible for their own development. It is therefore essential that the authorities conduct a responsible policy and exercise sound governance. A key objective of Norwegian assistance is to help countries improve their governance. It will be necessary to have a long-term perspective in this work. At the heart of national responsibility and the concept of ‘good governance’ is a responsible policy of distribution that ensures broad social development in society. In particular, this must be made visible by a willingness to give priority to the poor and marginalised in its own population. Work on good governance must also include combating corruption, ensuring legal framework conditions for private business, ensuring general legal protection and strengthening democratic institutions and processes. I am pleased that a Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs has said something about the importance of focusing on initiatives to educate children and young people in human rights and democracy, especially in Central Asia, the Caucasus, the Balkans and the Middle East, which are important conflict areas. Assistance is beneficial. The development work produces results. Help helps people get food and work, it helps children to go to school and learn to read and write. Assistance helps more and more people get a better life. During the past 30 years, infant mortality has fallen sharply. The proportion of people who can read and write has doubled at the same time. Compared to 1960, twice as many people in developing countries have access to clean water. Average life expectancy in developing countries has ranged from 40 to 51 years. Assistance is beneficial. The Christian People's Party is pleased to see that this government through a comprehensive development policy expressed in today's budget makes it possible to continue working for a more fair world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e243	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e246	The fight against HIV/AIDS is increasing in the next year’s budget. This is absolutely necessary, because the disease appears to be one of the most serious threats to development. Among other things, an increase to the UN AIDS programme is proposed. His Royal Highness The Crown Prince is appointed as UNDP's goodwill ambassador and has contributed in an exemplary way to show on TV how a condom is used. Our surprise was when a Nordic parliamentary delegation, which also represented Jon Lilletun, was in Zambia, where the population was hit hard by HIV/AIDS, and where the UN information campaign aimed at adults was primarily about abstinence from sex. The minister of health in the country, who is a doctor, had himself appeared on TV, as the Crown Prince, to promote the use of condoms to limit the risk of infection. But he had to back off in the matter after the intervention of the country's mighty Catholic Church. How does the Christian People's Party stand in this matter? I know that it focuses on research on new drugs and new protection for women. Meanwhile, millions of people die, and we spend millions of dollars on measures that work little. Does the Christian People's Party believe that this can continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e255	The representative eye has been in the political life for so long that she should remember that the Christian People's Party supported condom campaigns in Norway in the 1970s. Of course, we support international efforts to combat the HIV/AIDS epidemic. What is a unified strategy is the so-called ABC strategy. It's a broad consensus. It goes on ‘Abstinence, Be faithful, use Condoms’. The Christian People's Party supports this strategy. When teaching primary school children, most countries refer to the first two points – ‘Abstinence, Be faithful’. But the strategy described here is so broad a consensus that I really don't understand the problem that Gunhild Island travels.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e262	There were seven parliamentarians there from the Nordic countries, and I can promise that everyone understood the issue: that condoms were not made available and were not part of the United Nations information campaign either. There were strong reactions among parliamentarians in that way to promote information, in a country where we are going heavy with funds. The representative Lilletun was on that trip, and it's very bad that he's not here in the hall. I want to follow up with another question. I assume that the Christian People's Party has a comprehensive church network in Africa. Will the Christian People's Party settle with the Catholic Church in promoting the use of condoms to save lives in Africa, as the representative Lilletun called for on the Nordic parliamentary journey in Zambia?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e269	I don't think it's so stupid to teach kids in primary school about abstinence and being faithful. I believe that this is also a good strategy in primary school. I wish she had said that. In the case of campaigns for condom use, it is clear that there are different views on this in different countries. But I can assure you that we take this up with church leaders. The Minister of Assistance has repeatedly highlighted the importance of running condom campaigns in these countries. There are many people who don't know that, but also the former Norwegian China Commission, today called the Norwegian Lutheran Mission Union, the missiles, are active in the field and teach people how to use condoms. This has full support from a comprehensive Norwegian political environment, and I also hope that the representative Øyangen agrees with the entire ABC strategy, on which there is broad agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e276	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e279	This is going to be a rough transition. I will only be allowed to make a few comments on the changes proposed by the Central Party in the budget. We have proposed a significant strengthening of information support to the peace organisations and voluntary organisations and of support for information on European cooperation. We find it sad that the Government has chosen to cut off this important work. All voices need to be heard in Norwegian society. The problem is not that we have too much foreign policy debate in Norway, but rather that we have too little. Therefore, it is wrong that this support has been cut, not least at a time when Norwegian foreign policy in important areas is changing, also as a consequence of a change in the world around us. The Centre Party has also proposed to significantly increase support for press, cultural and information work. We do that because we believe that this is a field that represents a large unused potential in Norwegian foreign policy. It's really amazing – all the time we seem to agree that Norway, for example. has significant symbolic power in terms of its international role as a peace nation – that we have no greater ambitions to communicate this out. We also agree in Norway that one of the areas where Norway really has a potential for development is tourism. If we're going to be able to attract tourists, people actually need to know about us. Foreign stations have an important job to do in this respect. The centre party is impressed by what many foreign stations do in the press, culture and information area, considering the scarce resources they have, but here there is a formidable opportunity to do a lot more with very limited resources, in the sense that it doesn't cost much to get more speed on this. Press, culture and information work are also important because it gives our artists an opportunity to profile Norway externally. It's good advertising for the country, and it also gives artists an opportunity to get impulses from abroad. So we're talking here about a win-win situation. The central party had also wished that the effort towards Russia had been greater than that contained in the budget, both in terms of project cooperation and in terms of nuclear security cooperation. The Norwegian-Russian border is not only a border between national territories, but also a border between enormous contrasts in living standards, social security and the environment. Norway obviously has not only a particular moral responsibility, but also an enormous self-interest in assisting the areas of North-West Russia. Despite the success of improved tuberculosis control, funded over cap. 197, there remain enormous challenges to both tuberculosis and other infectious diseases in Russia. There are documented additional needs in this area, not least in the control of multi-resistance tuberculosis, but also, as we know very well, in the case of HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases. The developments we have with regard to the health situation in North-West Russia are a ticking bomb, which we have right outside our living room door, and which cannot be ignored. The central party also considers that it is unfortunate that the nuclear action plan should not be adequately funded. We all agree that it is in our own interest to advance the work of securing nuclear power stations, and that, in addition, we ensure the proper storage of radioactive waste. This is a work that should be strengthened and definitely not reduced. As far as the assistance is concerned, we have a development message in Stortinget that we operate and treat. I won't say much about this. Let me just comment on our redeployment of funds from the World Bank to the United Nations. The central party is aiming at fulfilling our obligations in relation to capital restockings to the banks. However, we are concerned that Norway should strengthen our support for the UN financially as well. It is important, not least at a time when the UN is to carry out a very important reform. Finally, let me just express my joy at the fact that solutions have been found for the Rafto Foundation, and that a solution has also been found in relation to Cyprus, so that we can continue our initiative in Cyprus.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e298	It is good to note that the budgetary position confirms a broad consensus on the broad lines of Norwegian development policy, and that there is greater excitement than ever for a record increase in the aid budget. New $1.6 billion brings us to 0.95 pst. of GNI, which means we're on our way to 1 pst, even though we still have a piece left. This enables us to take our share of the responsibility for the international efforts to deliver in relation to the UN's Millennium Goals. Through our own escalation plan, we have helped to put pressure on other countries. Several countries are now following. Sweden and Luxembourg have set themselves the goal of reaching 1 pst. After Norway did so, and Luxembourg may pass us in the process. As I mentioned in the financial debate, many other OECD countries now have rapprochement plans with deadlines for their assistance to achieve the 0.7 p.m. target. Indeed, if all donor countries delivered in relation to this target, there would be enough resources to deliver in relation to the Millennium Goals. But we must not just deliver on resources, we must also deliver on reforms and on results. That's the seventh and last thing that matters. The OECD's examination of Norwegian development policy that took place last week shows that we are on the right track. In general, we got a lot of credit in the OECD examination, where I myself was present, for our development policy and for its implementation. The headline of the post-examination press release summarised this as follows: ‘Norway sets an example with a high level of assistance and a strong focus on poverty reduction.’ But we can and we have to get better. The OECD points out that we can become more effective, including: in our efforts to reduce poverty, concentrate and predictability in terms of long-term assistance, and further operationalisation of the rights-based approach. These include: This is what we are trying to address in the development message, which the Storting has for treatment. At the same time, we are criticised for our high level of agricultural import protection. This includes, inter alia: the things we address in our report on how Norway delivers in relation to the Millennium Goal No. Eight. I personally handed over the Norwegian report to the UN in October. The report makes Norway’s contribution to achieving the UN’s Millennium Goals, which is our part of the effort. It says something about what we're doing to achieve the goals, among other things. by creating a better relationship in our policies. A number of different policy areas have been mentioned, and the report shows that we have some way to go. From the Norwegian side, we will regularly report on what we are doing, and on what progress in the ‘coherence’ area we can refer to. If we are to succeed in the fight against poverty and follow up the Millennium Goals and the Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development, we must work along four fronts. It concerns reforms in relation to international framework conditions. There are reforms in the governance and management of developing countries. It is about reforms in the area of assistance, and last but not least, it is about reforms to mobilise the private sector and civil society. This will come back to us in the debate on the Development Communication, which is now being discussed in the Storting. The 2005 budget is the first budget we put forward after presenting the Single European Act, and this is an important step in the implementation of parts of the policy in the Communication. The draft budget represents a strengthening of Norwegian efforts in six areas: Firstly, education, with an increase of 350 million. kr, which is in line with Stortinget's goal of investing in education – I think Stortinget put 15 pst. as a goal in the previous Communication – and in line with our own education strategy. Total aid for education has doubled since 2002. Education is one of the most important in the fight against poverty, and in particular education for girls. Therefore, the Government is following up on increasing support for the educational programme for girls via UNICEF by 150 million. kr. Secondly, HIV/AIDS. Here the appropriations are increased by a new 100 million. kr. In parentheses, I can assure everyone who's wondering about it, that there's one thing I'm going to mention in all my meetings with Heads of State and Government and with church leaders, that's the significance of condom use in relation to the HIV/AIDS fight. It's not just the Catholic Church, it's actually all religious leaders – including imams – that I've had the pleasure of challenging in a similar way, and I brought this up in the main feature of the Bangkok conference this summer. With regard to the proposals of the Labour Party and the SV to further increase in health and the fight against HIV/AIDS, we fully agree with the importance of these areas of action. Therefore, the aid to GAVI is EUR 300 million. NOK, after it was about 200 million. kr annually until 2003 inclusive. That's why we're already the second largest donor to Gavi after the United States. With regard to the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, Norway is also a significant contributor. If we are to give more, however, the fund must demonstrate its willingness to coordinate and to belong to national ownership. It has not been shown at this time, and we are not satisfied with the way the fund works, at country level. However, I am more surprised at where the money is taken from – from aid to education, and apparently also from the most poverty-oriented compulsory contributions in development banks. Thirdly, sustainable development. With the 2005 draft budget, the Government is complying with the Johannesburg commitment to increase efforts in the so-called WEHAB areas by a further 375 million. kr from 2002 to 2005. This also includes water. Fourth, economic development, trade and agriculture, where we add up to an increase of 100 million. SEK, of which 85 million. kr within agricultural development, in line with the new agricultural action plan that we presented in May, which is mentioned in the Communication. The effort for good governance is also increasing. The same applies to peace building and development, and this can enable them to set up, for example: for Sudan following the signature of a final peace agreement. With regard to the use of multilateral channels, I would like to stress that the Government has at least as much focus on the United Nations system as on the World Bank. Per. Norway is the largest contributor to the United Nations and the United Nations' development work, and in absolute terms we are the world's fifth largest contributor to the UN. We're still going to be, and we're also increasing the effort in this budget. However, Norway is following up on its commitments in relation to the contributions made in the multilateral refuelling negotiations, and we are increasing educational efforts through the so-called Fast Track Initiative, which is the World Bank's cooperation system with the UN organisations and bilateral donors. However, the United Nations system has been and is the main channel for Norwegian training efforts. So there's no imbalance here, as some comments seem to indicate. In addition, the Government's proposals will ensure support for the so-called African Water Facility and the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Initiative, both under the direction of the African Bank. The size has long been concerned with better and more performance-oriented reporting in relation to assistance. The aid performance focus will be further strengthened through the year's budget, in line with the signals we have given in the development communication. So what have we achieved in terms of results? Let me illustrate it with two examples. In Mozambique, new figures show that poverty has fallen markedly, and the proportion of the population living in extreme poverty is reduced from 69pst. from 1995/1996 to 54 p.m. in 2002/2003. In Tanzania, which we recently visited, the proportion of children who complete primary education, which is thus a thousand-year-old target 2, has increased from 58 pst. from 2000 to 91 p.p. in 2004, i.e. in just four years. Tanzania will achieve the goal of equal schooling for girls and boys in 2005, in line with the international objectives. We have contributed to this. 2005 will be a key year in the international fight against poverty with several important milestones. The first comes at the Paris High Level Forum in March, where we will adopt leaders for more efficient and better coordinated assistance. Not least, the rich countries will be judged against what they deliver here. The UN Summit of September 2005 shall establish the status of the Millennium Goals. Here we will be assessed against what we deliver in relation to the international commitments relating to the UN Millennium Goals, the Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey and the Johannesburg Summit. I have recently discussed the preparations here both with my French and with my Belgian colleague and with the European Commission. The United Kingdom will play a key role in 2005 with its G8 Presidency and the EU Presidency in the second half of 2005. Earlier this week, therefore, I was in London and discussed this with Finance Minister Gordon Brown. The British will focus on the fight against poverty this year, the Millennium Goals and Africa. They have also launched creative financing solutions and debt cancellation proposals. It is essential that the rich countries deliver in September, and that the G7 countries show the will and ability to act. Together with the "G-0.7" group, we also want to contribute to this, and I think we are going to meet for an exciting year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e338	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e341	I think it was a positive contribution that the Minister for Development had, including what was involved in taking up campaigns for condom use. I believe that one, in addition to the church leaders, now also needs to take care of the UN organizations. It was actually their information campaign that we reacted strongly to. I know that the Minister for Development has a great and sincere commitment to Africa, and it's an engagement I share. The aid budget is increasing by a total of SEK 1.6 billion for next year. But we have a problem. Assistance to non-ODA-approved countries is reduced. It may seem to me that the Minister of Foreign Affairs needs a little drag within the Government. We know that the border between Norway and Russia is the biggest prosperity gap in the world. Sickness, poverty, intoxication, violence and violations of human rights affect the lives of many, and there is an enormous need for democratic development. There are also several of the new fragile democracies in the east. There is a broad public commitment in Norway to help, but it is not money to pick up the project that the U.D. itself describes as very good. Now we know that Norwegian aid should be stepped up further to ODA-approved countries in the future, and we agree on that. But does the Minister of Development, with his social commitment, have any understanding that it may be difficult for the Norwegian people to understand that we are not going to be able to help our neighbours in North-West Russia and in the East anything more than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e353	The President must remind us that the time for replication is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e356	As far as HIV/AIDS campaigns are concerned, we will, of course, address the questions raised by the representative of Gunhild Eyeågen and other depositors in Zambia. UN AIDS and other UN organisations are quite clear about running youth campaigns that include both attitudes, ethics and condoms, so in this case we have to deal with this properly. With regard to ODA approval and assistance to others in need, I would like to say the following: there is no doubt that Norway is dealing with Russia. In this budget there is actually no cut in this work. They're getting solid support. It is also linked to the fact that they are better off than the poorest countries. What is challenging in Russia is a better distribution, not least in the economic growth period they are now in. People in Moscow have to learn to share with people in the rest of Russia, as well as that we are in line with what is in the government budget. I can fully defend the priorities we do. I think that's quite correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e365	It was just to be lacking that the Council of State does not have its own priorities! But SEK 1.6 billion in the increase in the aid budget is a significant increase. It's true that there's no cut in Russia. But there is also no increase, and it has been cut earlier. The gap between Norway and Russia has been highlighted in the past by others, and poverty in North-West Russia and the health situation there is worrying. Does the Council agree with me that this is worrying? And if so, what will the Council of State do to enable us to use some of the means of assistance for this important work in North-West Russia? Does the Council of State consider it reasonable to enter into an ODA discussion and how to use the ODA funds? Or is this a debate that, in the opinion of the Council of State, we should not have?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e372	Growth is significant – in line with the commitments of the majority in the United Kingdom, and we are still far from 1 pst. in the case of ordinary assistance. With regard to the situation in North-West Russia, I would like to point out once again that in Russia there is an economic growth that is significant. This is progress in the economy, and it is fully possible for the Russians themselves to take responsibility for the conditions under which the population lives in North-West Russia. There are, in fact, improvements in sight, too, and the gap is not as large as it was in the crisis period five to ten years ago. If you're going to use the situation in North-West Russia as the starting point for a full discussion of the ODA guidelines, I'm afraid you're really making a cardinal loss. What will be the situation then, is that more resources will come to Moscow, but you can ask the question, Where in the world are they coming to next round? I have no faith – unless they are challenged for better distribution – that they benefit the people of North-West Russia. They've always been marginalized, and we have to challenge better distribution and to take responsibility for our own people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e381	I want to ask a question that is really about gypsy coordination and harmonisation. We all know that assistance is given under conditions and in countries where there are very strong conflicts of interest. I will briefly mention an example from Casa Suecia, Swedish residence in Managua, Nicaragua. It was a difficult agricultural delegation that came, a conversation and discussed agricultural policy, and came up with a problem issue. You can only ask him, I said, pointing away at the watchman. Why should I ask him, he doesn't know anything about it? Yes, he is, like all other Nicaraguan guards, peasants. When we get so much harmonisation and so much coordination from the strongest countries in the world, we can risk not getting in touch with perhaps the weakest groups, as we usually see as the highest. My question is, can there be any danger that the more we coordinate from our side, the more we fail to intervene with those we really want to help?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e390	The whole point of donor coordination is to get more poverty reduction than when the poorest with each krona, not to have a donor-driven system that means that we are primarily looking for our own interests or our own flags. When the situation is, as it was, for example. in Tanzania three to five years ago, that there were about 10,000 different reports that had to be written by the Minister of Finance to the various donors annually, and there were 2,000 delegations this year – in Zambia, as far as I know, there are still 1,200 different donor accounts that the Minister of Finance has to operate under – then there is actually a danger that we will forget the poor completely, because we are most concerned about ourselves and about becoming visible – visible, as it is called – and have the flags on the donor side. That's what we have to deal with. Then, of course, it's a very important challenge to ensure that we have an eye for and contact with the poorest along the way. Those who first ask us to clean up our own ranks and reform the aid are the countries themselves. They ask us thinly, and then our challenge must be to ensure that our people on the ground maintain that contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e399	The centre party is, as you know, occupied by the UN, and we are convinced that UN assistance will only be effective if the entire UN family operates uniformly at country level. I know that the government is also busy. In the real world, some organisations are following closely with this, while some other UN organisations are not. My question to the Minister for Development is: To what extent does the Government attach importance to the organisations' willingness to coordinate when deciding which channels the assistance should go through? My question is also: to what extent is a willing person to put power behind the requirements in relation to coordination?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e406	It's not just the Center Party that's occupied by the United Nations. So is the Government. The question raised by Mr. Åslaug Haga here has been the main reason why, in cooperation with six other countries, we have presented this year a reform paper for the UN's development work, where precisely improving the coordination and coherence of the various UN organisations has been the main point, not least to do so at country level and to ensure that it is implemented, so that we can next increase the resources of the UN. It is precisely because we do not want to waste funds into inefficient UN organisations that are not willing to be coordinated and reformed, that we are presenting the draft budget we are now making. It reflects this priority. You can notice that we don't give much support to, for example. FAO that doesn't deliver. It can also be noted that UNICEF is getting less in its core contribution, precisely because they are not good enough to be coordinated at the moment. It is this policy we are pursuing, and it is governing our United Nations policy. It will strengthen the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e413	This becomes a little bit to both state councils. Hilde Frafjord Johnson believed that Moscow should ensure fair distribution in Russia. That is the point of view I share. But Russia is a very large country, with long authoritarian traditions, and democracy is very weak. These include: a project that is undergoing training in freedom of expression, which is quite new to the citizens, for which support is sought. It is also about teaching people to demand decentralisation and a fairer distribution within the country. Then we need some money. Countries that Norway can go into and contribute to the development of democracy, as well as, of course, fighting disease, which means a lot to the people who live there, but also represents a significant danger to our own citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e420	The issue of freedom of expression in Russia, issues of decentralisation and fairer distribution within Russia, is primarily foreign policy. It's not development policy. Development policy is about setting up the world's poor, ensuring that the Millennium Goals and the Development Goals we have set are followed up, and that we get a better and fairer global distribution. It is the objective of development policy. We must not go into the grip of using development policy to achieve foreign policy objectives in Russia. That's a foreign policy question. We need to ensure and take a joint responsibility for the foreign minister getting enough resources to do that job. I fully agree that it is important. In the case of ODA legislation, it is also not possible to have a regional distribution, so that some areas in one country can be ODA-approved and others not. It becomes completely unmanageable, both for the OECD and for us as a global society. It'll be impossible to practice. My assessment is that we should not let the rich in the middle-income countries escape. They're going to pay for the cake.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e427	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e431	In budget chapter 152, on the Middle East, it is stated in a brief introductory note that one recommends the flexible use of budgetary resources, not least in 2005, because the situation is rather inconceivable and unstable. One has a situation in the Middle East, in the Israeli-Palestinian region, which can develop negatively into even more chaos, but which also has the ability to relaunch constructive processes. This is precisely the basis for perhaps going a little deeper into an assessment of what can contribute to a positive development and which can also say something about what our contribution can be. In this context, I do not want to go into greater regional development, but just stress that the context is obvious. It was kind of summed up in an article in The New York Times yesterday, by former Secretary of State James Baker, who said this: The road to peace in the Middle East goes not either through Baghdad or through Jerusalem, but through them both. One may for some time almost despair and wonder if it is intended to continue the commitment to the work of resuming the peace process in the Israel-Palestine region. Some of what I think is stimulating, and that gives motivation, is that polls over time have shown that a majority in both Israel and Palestine want a peace solution based on a two-state solution. It is also the goal of the Quartet Roadmap for Peace. As well as President Bush as Prime Minister Sharon has publicly supported such a goal, although one also noticed that Sharon, before the summer, stated that the withdrawal from Gaza could postpone a Palestinian state for several years. As surely as this is a formulated goal, it's that extreme groups, on both sides, will oppose such a two-state solution. It is Arabs who refuse to approve Israel, as are Israelis who prefer a one-state solution and who want to maintain the occupied territories. The big question is what the parties as well as the international community can do to move on now. Then is the title that it has been for a long time: resume negotiations. Come back to the negotiating table. What I want to stay a little bit by is what's going to happen to get to that very thing -- to resume the process and then continue it. Then I think it is important that one of both parties avoids making any premise for further negotiations that actually give the extremists veto through, for example. new acts of terrorism, the parties having made further progress depending on the fact that nothing violent is happening around them. This requires both political courage and will. The parties must avoid provocative acts of authority likely to be used to justify the extreme groups of the counterparty. The example is that Israel should bind itself and refrain from setting up new settlements both before and during the negotiations. Of course, in order to meet at the negotiating table one must have a negotiating party, and preferably a negotiating party as a mutual respecter. This could apply to Israel, which is experiencing a government crisis in these days, and of course to the Palestinians, who are in front of both the presidential elections on 9 February and the parliamentary elections for spring. In my opinion, the main basis for giving legitimacy and authority to a new Palestinian leadership is the recognition of elections as free and fair. It is therefore essential that Israeli authorities — and it is gratifying that they have insured — do their part to facilitate elections. This includes the participation of the Palestinians in East Jerusalem and the escalation of military presence both in the West Bank and in Gaza, so that the voters can reach the polls. At that stage, a broad international presence is crucial. It's very important. It is also important for the population to feel the security and transparency of elections. This is the basis for good participation. A good turnout is what is needed to give a solid mandate to those who are elected. Having such a solid mandate in the back is an absolute prerequisite for the weight of the negotiations. I also believe that a broad turnout will be what will give the new leaders the best strength to resist and reject extremist actions. For the same reason, the subsequent parliamentary elections to spring are also so important. Even then, the international community must take a strong stand both in preparation and in implementation. There is reason to encourage and support the Palestinian Legislative Assembly, PLC, in their ongoing efforts to complete and adopt new electoral laws as the basis for the spring's new elections. Then it is positive to note that over the past week PLC has contacted international cooperation partners to help renew and strengthen Parliament as an institution. It is not least important because strong democratic institutions, including the control of the security sector by the elected people, will be essential for peace in the region. When the will of the populace also becomes the will of the rulers, it gives legitimacy, but also stability, which these peoples so sorely need. There are rarely new opportunities for positive progress in this conflict. Now that the window of opportunity is on fire, it is essential that both the Quartet, the Arab world and all of us who feel co-responsibility for a solution in the Middle East are present when we are needed, and contribute technically as well as economically and politically. In this context, I hope that 2005 will be a very busy and demanding year in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e464	Let me begin by saying that I am very satisfied with the budgetary position that is now in place and with the decisions that will be taken later today. It will also provide my area of responsibility with good opportunities to pursue important priorities in 2005. Among other things, I am adding. emphasising that we have significant opportunities to continue our work in the field of peace-building, peace-brokering. We have considerable opportunities to continue to escalate important works in Central Asia, the Caucasus, the Western Balkans. I would like to mention that I made a longer visit to the Caucasus earlier this autumn, and there is no doubt that there are opportunities for Norwegian activity and for Norwegian escalation, which this budget now gives us the opportunity to realise. I think it's an area where Norway should get more involved. I am also pleased that the levels we have in the current year in terms of cooperation with Russia are kept in the next year's budget. I would like to remind you, in the light of the debate that has taken place since the previous speeches today, that the level we set for 2005 is the level that we agreed with the Workers' Party on was right for 2004. It is then to the extent of a good consensus that the level we agreed with the Workers' Party in 2004 is the level we have agreed with the Progress Party in 2005. And from that, we have to say that there's a lot of consensus here about what's the right level. I understand that the Labour Party believes that there is a big difference between 2004 and 2005, based on what I have heard. I just want to remind you that one of the biggest differences is the oil price increase we've seen, which brings significant revenue to Russia. I think at least we can say that what we're doing next year gives good opportunities to pursue important Norwegian priorities. Of the priorities I think it is particularly important to emphasise, cooperation in the field of nuclear pollution is. I think it is very important to keep it up as an important priority also because here we have many and important international partners. I'm not going to interfere with the discussion that has been on the ODA question. I just want to remind you that the developments that Russia has had since the economy took a new turn in 1998 say that the debate on the ODA issue was more important early in the 1990s than it is today. I agree with what the Minister for Development has said in this area. With regard to the press and cultural work and the external information, I do not in any way disagree with Åslaug Haga's assessments. I think it's a proper statement of what opportunity and what meaning is in this field. I guess that's also how you can always spend more money in important areas. I don't want to say in any way that that's not the case here too, but I think we have to be able to say that the appropriations we are making for next year are giving us considerable opportunities for good selection of Norway. I mention this because I'm not quite sure if I perceive the committee setting correctly at this point, as far as I can understand, there's a kind of contrast between what you call ordinary press and colorful press, and the 2005 bet. For me, it is quite an unnatural contrast, for 2005 is a unique chance to drive Norway’s marking. It was just to be lacking that this opportunity was not used to sharpen the message, to focus and have a unified message all over it. That would seem beneficial to the perception of our message. That's why I'm not able to see any contrast between the fact that we normally do important work, and that at the same time we seize the opportunity that's natural for us, right in 2005. Now I don't understand the committee comments so that it is likely that there will be some other operational action than what the government has taken, and I would like to stress the importance of, among other things. that the 2005 actions we have now planned are continuing. With regard to what has been said about the EEA grant, which is very significant, I would like to recall, in the light of what is in the committee setting, that the Stortinget has joined the financing facility itself. This means that the funds are based on beneficiary management and the priorities of each country. Thus, funds for an earmarked subsidy scheme for Norwegian business cannot be taken from the scheme on the basis of the scheme approved by Stortinget, which I believe is a sensible scheme. According to the agreement, Norway is obliged to make the funds referred to available to the beneficiary countries. What we will of course consider in the light of the committee's position is whether this can be viewed in relation to the instrument in general. I just want to remind you that it is today the Stortinge grant, and there is therefore no other allocation within this purpose. Otherwise, I register that the committee has put Cook Islands emphatically on the map. I agree with the majority that the Cook Islands project should not be assessed on the basis of aid policy criteria, and that there is also a need to assess whether there are other ways of facilitating Norwegian nutrition in the area. But there is something we need to consider in the light of the current committee setting. Otherwise, there is a matter I would like to comment on, which is not of a purely budgetary nature, but was mentioned by the representative Jacobsen – just to express my satisfaction with the approach he had. The UN panel that has now presented its report this week has a very broad approach to UN issues. I think that's absolutely crucial. It is an important work that can be done to strengthen the UN in terms of the possibility of getting ahead of crises and conflicts, i.e. having a greater degree of activity in advance, so that you do not get the problems that have been in the UN for a longer time. When I say that I think this is a central issue, it is because the whole reform process can easily be overshadowed by the debate on how to put together the Security Council. There is no shortage of participants in this debate – Norway also has a meaning and policy in this area, but I think it is very important that the reform debate is not completely overshadowed by the Security Council composition itself. Therefore, perhaps an important Norwegian contribution to the debate will be to raise the other parts of the panel’s work, so that they get a proper and a good answer. I perceive in many ways the representative Jacobsen's posts so that he is just interested in these other parts of the panel's report, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e492	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e495	This whole debate we have today has one main objective, and that is to develop through assistance. That's the whole goal of this budget work. So we know that there are other things that work the opposite way, for example. trade policy, trade policy, trade policy, trade policy, trade policy, trade policy, trade policy, trade policy, trade policy, trade policy, trade policy, trade policy, I think the government has a reasonable trust when it comes to the big problem there, which is export support, export subsidies. The government is standing there hard to get rid of it, get rid of it. But it is also another area that, at my discretion, undermines development and assistance, that is, weapons policy. There I found that we are largely missing, for example. export controls, we also lack an international agreement on how arms trade is going to proceed. It will always be possible to trade weapons, but we are far too short when it comes to curbing this trade, which, not least in wars and conflicts, prevents and stops a lot of development work. What are the Foreign Minister's assessments that lack of effort in the field of arms and trade can hinder development?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e506	I agree that there is a very close link between development and crises and conflicts. Of course, it's a problem that goes far beyond the actual trade in weapons, so I'm not sure if it's the right angle to start seeing this problem from. But that there is no development if there is no peace and security, I think we have to agree on. So there's a question about how we can connect these elements together. But it's true, as Jacobsen says, that the existence of weapons to a large extent is a developmental problem. Norway is therefore a very high priority, among other things. work to get rid of these large quantities of handguns that exist around the world. It's not an easy job, but I think it's important that we work through this to try and get a grip on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e513	I think the government must have received a completely different information about the social living conditions and the state of North-West Russia than I have seen, and the information I have received, when the Minister of Development can talk about ‘the rich in the middle-income countries’. That's what I thought maybe was dragging it a little bit well. It has been said that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has lost interest, his great commitment, which he had for Russia when he was a giant representative. When he climbed onto the taboo, that interest gradually disappeared. We now know that there is a big message about the northern regions in the department drawers that have been repeatedly exposed. Maybe it's time to ask if that message is about to be delivered? If it shouldn't, what's the reason for that? Are these areas of little strategic interest to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e522	I can confirm that the message should be promoted, and not in too distant a future either, that is. It's coming in the new year. It is also the background that I would like to say to the representative Eyeågen that if she has heard that I have lost interest in the northern regions, I would recommend that she not listen to everything she hears, because that is not at all right. Otherwise, I just want to say that it is enough that large parts of the third world have significantly bigger problems than what we now see in Russia. We are not underestimating in any way the major social problems we see in parts of Russia, and in particular in the outer edges of Russia, but when you know that large parts of the world's population are living in one dollar day, I just have to say that there are, after all, all the problems outside this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e531	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e534	The majority of the 2005 budget of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is of various forms of assistance. That is why we have a responsibility to ensure that these funds are managed in the best possible way. Assistance is best measured in results, not in dollars. Uncritically allocating funds, without an analysis of the likelihood of success before projects are launched, is a great chance of contributing to a service of bears, even if the purpose is the best. It is also important to carry out an evaluation afterwards. Open markets are also a good tool for economic development. Poverty hinders development in large parts of the world, but developing countries must also take responsibility for pursuing policies that facilitate growth and development. Bloody conflicts usually affect the poorest and are serious barriers to development and poverty reduction. An undemocratic political system and corruption are also an obstacle and risk to both the country's own and foreign investors. It is therefore important that this be emphasised by the donor countries. Assistance from rich countries can also contribute to development through goods and services. Therefore, the role of private industry in aid should be strengthened and the rich countries should have better market access in developing countries. There is little point in enabling a country to produce export goods when there is no willingness to buy them or obstacles are being placed in the way. The Progress Party will also point to the growing terrorist threat, which is preventing the development of poor countries. Well-organised terrorist networks pose a threat to the entire democratic world. Therefore, Norway must continue to put the fight against international terrorism and crime high on its agenda and on its priorities. The Progress Party believes that help for self-help is a good way to get out of poverty, and education is a key word in this regard. Disease control is also important in getting more hands at work and in relieving health services, which in most developing countries are very deficient. It is also necessary to require, to a greater extent than at present, target achievement and evidence of the results achieved must be expected. This must be a requirement for all those providing public assistance in order to achieve maximum efficiency. In beneficiary countries where there is a lack of transparency in the availability of aid or where much of the aid disappears in the government distribution apparatus, it is appropriate to require that assistance be given directly to the groups it is intended to. It is also necessary to highlight how the country uses its own resources when choosing the country of assistance. I will finally put the spotlight on the many disasters and emergencies that we still see, and read about, around the world. This is an area the Progress Party would like to see strengthened in the budget, including the area of humanitarian aid and human rights. Norway’s Peace Council had also appreciated an increase in the budget instead of a reduction. But the Progress Party has made a settlement with the government parties, so I will end the article with: "It gets spring like it e, when it was as it looked."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e547	That's often the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e551	Only a small article about ODA. SV has always been a string interpreter of ODA media. But what's happening in the OECD DAC for the time being? Well, that's that ODA is being threatened by several people. One sees that one comes with dubious debt cancellation projects that one will have registered as ODA-approved assistance. One sees that people who live in Norway, who have previously offered e.g. in Turkey, sending money home. It shall also be registered as official assistance. If a money is sent home to an aunt in Ankara, or where it may be, there should be official assistance. We also see, and that's perhaps the biggest challenge when it comes to ODA funds, that one more and more wants military use of these funds. Of course, one might think of situations in terms of conflict prevention, but it's always a gap. As I understand it, the Norwegian government has been very hard on this strict interpretation in the OECD DAC Committee. But when you look at the conditions at the Norwegian border with Russia, with the enormous differences in living conditions, I have to admit that it is not strange that there are proposals that one here should be able to do something. But I see that when we have submitted proposals in the 02 area, we have not received enough support for it. So the policy should perhaps be that all parties go together to make real promises to Russia in the 02s, that we don't take it from the 03s. If we really think we're going to help our neighbours in the east, our neighboring country, we're going to have to take it over the 02. I think that's got to be the solution. But I think this is just the beginning of a debate we're going to continue for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e562	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e577	The position of the Committee is unanimous, and there is no need for a wide-ranging comment on it. However, I want to point to two things. One is that the svalbard budget is a peculiar structure in connection with the treatment of the State budget by the Storting. In fact, it is an internal budget for the Svalbard business, and what is part of the ordinary government budget and the appropriations granted by the Stortinge are actually the part that takes the form of direct transfers. The majority, at the latest when dealing with the previous Svalbard message, has agreed that the Government is continuing this practice. This is related to the Svalbard Treaty assuming that Svalbard is not necessarily part of Norwegian territory in the case of, for example, Svalbard. tax rules and what is otherwise applicable to Norwegian society. So this is probably still the proper way to do it. The second thing I would like to comment on is that the development towards exploiting Svalbard as the basis for research related to Arctic conditions, climate research, marine research continues in the positive track that has been set. There are two steps that are important to register, with the support of Stortinget, as the Committee has done. One is the research park in connection with the university studies in Longyearbyen, and the other is the new research building at the sea edge of the New Ålesund, which will provide unique opportunities for marine research in this part of the world. Both parts have an international aspect that is important to underline. Among the students applying for university studies in Longyearbyen is an increasing number of students from other parts of the world. It's in itself positive. In the New Ålesund research community, the international spectrum is getting really wide, especially after China established its own research institution in New Ålesund. This is part of the Svalbard Treaty that it is important that we focus on the Norwegian side. The Svalbard Treaty requires that all signatory countries have the same access to both business and other activities at Svalbard, and that we succeed from Norway in motivating more and more other countries to participate in Svalbard research. The Committee has no critical role to play in the draft budget that has been presented and is therefore satisfied to point out and underline the importance of continuing in the same positive track.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e594	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 786]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e609	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e616	Let me first thank you for the presentation that was given. It was thorough and good, although I believe that nothing can be concluded with until we get the agreement on the table and see the contents of it. Otherwise, I'm pretty much going to end up with what the Minister of Defense said. I would also like to say at the beginning that I have a great deal of understanding for those who are asking if participation in the EU military teams is in line with the referendum we had in 1994. However, this is reflected in a wide range of measures to integrate Norway into EU cooperation. We have the EEA Agreement, which was the alternative to membership in 1994, we have joined the Schengen Agreement and the veterinary agreement, which, moreover, the pure no-government – if you can use such an expression – agreed to. Then the Bondevik I government went in order to have the closest possible link with EU defence and security cooperation, and I have seen it so that when leading no-politicians from 1994 also wanted this adaptation, it can be said to be acceptable in relation to the referendum we had in 1994. The majority of the population has also formulated that Norway supports EU enlargement, because it is good for Europe and good for Norway. We've granted more than 100 million. kr each year during the membership negotiations, in support of the candidate countries. It must be said that the yes and no sides have put a line across many of the EU's scares in 1994, otherwise we could not have allocated money to EU enlargement and adapted to almost all the dimensions of EU cooperation, as we have done with changing governments and with support from both the Yes and the No sides. When the Prime Minister, one of the most prominent on the no-page in 1994, strongly recommends participation in the EU's response groups, we must be able to count on the matter to be politically sound in relation to the 1994 referendum. The formal aspects of our constitution are not clarified until we have on the table the agreement to be negotiated on the terms of Norway's participation. We must not take this lightly and compare it with the other international military operations in which we have been involved. The operations we have been involved in so far, we have joined in retrospect. What we are talking about now is that we are going to be in military units to be able to be deployed at short notice by decision of the Council of the European Union. They have to be at their disposal. It's clear that it's not easy to be in such a unit if at the same time we have to be able to say no to be in the operations that are being determined. The crucial factor when Norway enters into a decision-making process will be whether to deploy such a fighting group. It is only the agreement that can give an answer. It is only the Storting that can determine whether this agreement falls within the provisions of the Constitution. Of course, opinions will be obtained from international law experts and others. Of course, the government will. I'm assuming that. The party groups in Stortinget will also be able to do that. But it's just the Storting that can determine whether this is under the Constitution or not. In extending this, I would like to say that if we stick to what the Minister of Defence thinks we can get an agreement on, it seems that we can overcome the formal obstacles. But I would also like to make it clear: we can never get anything but a special scheme that can't be good for Norway. The EU's defence and security policy dimension is slightly more than that of these response groups. The EU and NATO will then take responsibility for security together. This is now agreed between the EU and NATO. The formulation of EU defence and security policy will take place in the Council of the European Union, where Norway is not involved. The EU will also coordinate its policies within NATO and in relation, inter alia, to: The United States and Russia. This means that the EU will have a much greater role to play in defence and security policy. We can never get a proper deal with this without becoming a full member. I'll say it like this: what happens now is that, among other things. Sweden and Finland will have more influence over the formulation of defence and security policy than Norway will have. We kind of get a reverse situation of the relationship we had during the cold war. Then Norway had a strong position, because we were a member of NATO, and because we were a frontier country to the Soviet Union, while Sweden and Finland were a little out in the periphery, because they were not members of NATO. Now they come in full. They get into the center of everything that's going to happen. We'll stay a little bit more out in the periphery. It could develop in such a way that Sweden and Finland will have more influence in NATO than Norway has as a member, precisely because the EU will coordinate its policies with NATO and with the United States. In my opinion, we stand at a safety-related road junction similar to what we had when Norway joined NATO in 1949. In my opinion and in the view of the Workers' Party, it is important to be able to connect to what is happening, even if a scheme could never be complete as long as we are not a member of the EU. If we do not try to connect to this, we will be able to gradually become marginalised in the security policy, which will be very unfortunate in the security policy situation we are in, and with the uncertainty we experience around the world. The Labour Party has supported – it has also done a broad majority in the United Kingdom – the development of the defence and security policy dimension in the EU. These battle groups will be an important support to the UN's ability to respond to genocide, humanitarian crises, wars and conflicts that kill and mutilate. In relation to these response groups, Kofi Annan has said that the EU and its members pay a great deal to the UN, but that he looks at Europe for even greater reasons than that. And he goes on to say, ‘That is why I welcome the development of EU capacity in defence and security policy and the progress we are making together in crisis management. I want there to be no doubt about how important this is to the United Nations. The EU will be able to provide us with specialised capacities that our large troops do not have and you can deploy faster than we can." The United Nations Panel has also underlined the need to increase the capacity to intervene in crises and conflicts and wars on behalf of individuals, humanitarian intervention. The EU's defence and security policy dimension does not aim to establish an old-fashioned army, but will be given an instrument to intervene when the individual is threatened. That's what Kofi Annan says. That is what is formally set out in the documents on which these response groups are based. We can say that the European Union is making a contribution here to the development that we have seen over time and that is gradually manifesting itself, that we are adding a new dimension to international law. Until now, the right of nations to sovereignty has been confirmed; they are not allowed to intervene in the sovereignty of nations. Now you get the right, get the opportunity, to intervene in the internal affairs of nations if genocide threatens, and if international law is violated. This is what is happening in the EU. The EU is in the process of supporting this development in the UN. That's why I want to see it as very positive that we support this development, but we need to have the formal things in order. As long as we are not a member of the EU, this is not easy. But I hope that we can get it right, and that the agreement that is negotiated about participation can confirm that we have an opportunity to participate in these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e645	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e648	There is little doubt that the Constitution sets limits for the transfer of forces. I am very pleased that the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee was so nuanced also problematic. But now, from the Government's side, a very short foundation has been provided based on the constitutional problem. Does the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee think that the constitutional foundation of the Government is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e658	As the Minister of Defense said here in Stortinget, I would say it's good enough if it gets laid down in the agreement, and that's our point. We need to have a clear agreement on the table, and we can't know what she said will hold until we get that agreement. I have great faith that the Government will do what you can to get it fixed, but the Storting is dependent on seeing the text before we can say it's okay. I also say that because there are many different flows and attitudes to third countries' participation in EU cooperation, and you can't really know what you get until you actually have the agreement on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e663	It is a paradox that with what is now happening, Norway, which has said no to EU membership, can become closer to EU military cooperation than the EU country Denmark is doing. The chairman of the Defence Committee made a statement last night about the fighting groups, which was so clearly in favour of these combat groups that one has to stop a bit when one hears today the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Waiting for a framework agreement seems in many ways to be a game for the gallery from the Workers' Party. My question is, is there any reason to believe that the Workers' Party is going to say no to the struggle groups no matter what the framework agreement looks like?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e670	We have long had a closer link with EU defence and security cooperation than Denmark. Denmark has its own reservation. It was the Bondevik I government, where the centre party was set, who said they wanted to have a connection to this. From then on we had a closer connection with this cooperation than Denmark has. So this won't be anything new. Calling our relationship to the Basic Law 'a game for the gallery', I think I'm a little tired when you're a member of this hall. We have to take it seriously, whether you are on the yes side or no side, because we cannot extend our relationship to the European Union beyond what the Constitution provides. And once again, it's just the deal that's going to be negotiated, that's going to give the answer. If you don't get the answer to that, we have said that we're not ready to be involved in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e677	The representative, Mr. Jagland, said it's good enough, if there's an agreement. But now let's think that it's not going to be like that. What will the Labour Party say?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e682	Then we just have to say that that's not the way it is – there's nothing more to say about it. Then we can discuss our relationship with the European Union at a different level. But we now have to operate within the framework, namely the 1994 referendum and our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e688	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e691	The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee said that we are ‘at the crossroads of security policy’ and that is a good picture. In extending that picture, it may well be worth stressing that there is a political issue that Stortinget raised in the statement by the Minister of Defence, and that is a political issue we are discussing. This assembly is not a meeting of lawyers, and that side of the case should be handled differently. We live in a time when memory tends to be shorter and shorter. We've soon completed four years of a new millennium, but often you can have the impression that it's very rare that memory goes back to the last millennium. Therefore, it may be worth recalling that there is an interesting historical perspective related to the Minister of Defence's presentation to the Storting. Norway ceased its policy of neutrality on 9 April 1940. Since then, Norway has never tried to pursue a policy of neutrality. We joined the NATO cooperation from the first stage. However, some may recall that when the two Nordic countries Denmark and Norway decided to join NATO, there were two other Nordic countries that maintained their policy of neutrality very strongly. It was Sweden and Finland. Very many in Norway then wanted a Nordic defence Sallia instead of joining NATO cooperation. Now, I guess that process showed that there was never any realism in the desire for a Nordic defence alliance. This was due to the great political conditions, and it was due to the close proximity of the Nordic countries to what was then the Soviet Empire. This also led to Nordic cooperation as it emerged, not at all covering foreign policy, security policy and, at least, defence policy issues. It was a condition that the Nordic countries could develop their cooperation, that these issues were taboo and were not affected when the Nordic countries met. After what happened at the beginning of the 1990s, the last decade of the last millennium, all things are the same. We are living in reality also in our northern corner of Europe that has become completely different. Sweden and Finland are still formally maintaining their neutrality and have therefore not wanted to participate formally in NATO cooperation. But everyone knows that Sweden and Finland are truly deeply integrated into NATO cooperation and also participate with military personnel in NATO operations. We are in a completely new situation, and that is what is illustrated when Sweden and Finland are just coming to Norway and are asking Norway to contribute to the joint responsibility of these three countries to establish one of the battle groups that the EU has decided to set up. This shows, if you say it very generally, that the post-war period is definitely over, and that the post-war world of thought is a world of thought that is no longer relevant. It also shows that Europe today needs, can and will take responsibility for the security of its own house, the European House. There are people who like to present it as if European cooperation is a kind of conspiracy aimed at the United States. It's not. In fact, it was the beginning of the European Union's determination to develop a common foreign and security policy, that it was said quite clearly from Washington that Europe must soon be able to take a greater part of the responsibility itself, one cannot continue to rely on an eternal American military presence in Europe. It may also be worth recalling what a former American foreign minister, Henry Kissinger, said in his time, that the problem for the United States of America in dealing with Europe is that there is no telephone that can be called. There is no recipient on the other side of the Atlantic. That's no longer the case. Those who follow the daily dramatic news from Ukraine will know that Europe now has both a telephone and an address, and the EU is in fact able to play a constructive brokering role in critical situations in our own close neighbourhood. It should all rejoice, because it is a long way to go in ensuring security for the whole of Europe. There is reason to recall that NATO and the EU are more and more two sides of the same issue. Today, 19 of the 25 EU Member States are members of NATO and are thus involved in all the contexts and decision-making processes of both organisations. With the exception of Norway, Iceland and Turkey, all NATO member countries are EU members, as of course with the exception of Canada and the United States, which do not belong to the European continent – it goes without saying. So we're in a situation where there's no structural contradiction between being a member of NATO and being a member of the EU. On the contrary, it is what makes it possible for all these countries to cooperate on both the broad foreign policy lines and the very practical concrete measures necessary to enable the world to deal with crisis situations of the kind we have seen in recent years, in the Balkans and in the African continent. In particular, these two areas are the starting point of the EU concept of combat groups which should be able to be deployed at very short notice to stop genocide and solve problems such as the UN Security Council per year. today is not able to solve, simply because the capacity does not exist. It means that in a lot of situations you have to be careful to produce words instead of action. Norway has already participated twice in EU operations, in Macedonia when the EU assumed responsibility after NATO, and yesterday when the EU took over responsibility for the operations in Bosnia, where we have 13 Norwegian experts participating in this EU operation. Let me also remind you that since the early 1990s, all Norwegian governments have made every effort to make it possible for Norway to participate responsibly and committedly in its efforts to create a common European effort in the field of foreign and security policy. The government of Stoltenberg notified a significant Norwegian contribution in 2000. The Bondevik Government, with the Central Party as one of the three parties involved in government cooperation, made every effort in 1999 to get a special arrangement that enabled Norway to participate fully in the development of common foreign and security policy in the EU, i.e. an engagement that would be far more committed and far more extensive than what is now the current issue. I remember very well in the last big period that it was with great regret the then government, with the three government parties, and the two major opposition parties here in the Chamber, the Labour Party and the Right, took note that the European Union was not willing to include Norway in this. As I said, it's a point to have the memory, at least the close memory, in storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e719	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e722	The representative's salary affected the constitutional and legal aspects of this issue very badly, because he said that this was not a gathering of lawyers, and as such the legal aspects of this were not part of the responsibility of the Storting. Of course, that's not right. It is the Stortinget who is responsible for ensuring that the Basic Law's letter and spirit are complied with. That is why this case is far more complicated than the operations of which Norway has been a part and of which the EU has also been part. For example, the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee took this seriously and problematised it as thoroughly as necessary. It is therefore also necessary to consult the Right-wing Representative whether he shares the views of the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the constitutional aspects of this. And given that the agreement does not meet this, that means Norway has to say no. Not because you want to, but because that's what the Constitution actually limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e729	The answer is yes. There is no disagreement between the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee and me in this context, and I can sign every word that Thorbjørn Jagland said about this. But let me add, because I think that the representative of Djupedal misinterpreted what I said about politics and law in this context: my point is that it is the Stortinget as the country's legislative assembly that has the whole and full responsibility for how the Constitution is interpreted, and what is constitutionally sound or not. That is why I believe that the Storting must deal with what is being presented, and I think what we were presented to us in the Minister of Defence's statement was very clarifying on this point. But the statement also provided for one thing, namely that the agreement that has not yet been drawn up really becomes such that the requirements of the Constitution are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e736	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e739	The Progress Party will also stress that we must, of course, return to the final agreement. We are also fully committed to the constitutional issues set out by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. We want to signal that we do not want to oppose the Government continuing its work on these questions, and have no need to stop this, which we might understand is the starting point for others. However, we would stress that we have been critical of building a defence dimension in the EU and that security in Europe should be ensured primarily through NATO, and that is where we were going to put our weight. So we did not see the need for the European Union to be involved in this policy area. Our fear has been, and is, that NATO loses importance. We are anxious about a long-term development where NATO is becoming more and more absent in Europe, and that the United States is giving priority to its presence on our continent. But if this is what the future brings, which of course we hope it isn't, then we also have to deal with it. Our aim must be to give Norway the most security and influence possible. We therefore choose a line in which, despite a fundamental resistance to the defence dimension of the European Union – at least until we have all the constitutional conditions clarified – we say that we will join in order to get a leg within. We are concerned that this is collapsing with NATO as far as possible, and that it is happening in a close dialogue with our other allies, which in this case is primarily the United States. We are also pleased that the headquarters has been elected to the United Kingdom, which, as we see it, can ensure the transatlantic connection in the best possible way. For us, the challenge is how we can safeguard the future interest of our allies in our challenges in our northern regions. Is it forgotten in today's picture? It's not hard to see how the attention is. It is not certain that the world will always be like what we see today, so the challenges for our areas can also be different in the future. That's why it's important for us to be involved in discussing security policy where it's being discussed. The Representative for Wage came to the attention of the United States of America's desire for Europe to take on greater responsibility, and that is a well-known attitude on the part of the United States. At the same time, it is not an attitude that I would like to endorse and encourage. On the contrary, I see it as our task to contribute to maintaining the presence of the United States on our continent as far as possible. Therefore, I feel that it must be our task in relation to our allies. I am also not quite sure that the United States and Europe are in complete harmony here. I guess there's no doubt that, for example. France has ambitions on behalf of first and foremost itself, but also perhaps Europe, which is not necessarily always and at all times in harmony with, for example. The U.S. in this area. Here, at least from our side, we want to warn against immediately swallowing up what comes from the European Union in this area. We must constantly make sure that the United States is as restrained as possible in shaping a future security policy in Europe, and at least we must not go into the ditch that we leave this governance to e.g.. countries like France, Belgium and Germany, because then I don't think we serve Norway's interests. Finally, I would just like to comment briefly on the distributed proposals from the SV and the Senterpartiet, No. 1 to 4. They have not been taken up correctly, but I anticipate some of the events here and will only signal that the Progress Party will support the proposals No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e758	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e761	I find it very positive that the Progress Party is so closely associated with what was the main line of the defence minister's statement. This means that there is a very broad uprising in Stortinget that it is desirable for Norway to be able to participate in the intended fight group together with our neighbours Sweden and Finland. But I have a small question about the Höglund delegation's deliberations around the United States and Europe. The United States and Europe are not entirely in harmony with each other, said Höglund. It must be an understatement. We all know that there are significant contradictions of interest from time to time, and that they, among other things, are: follows the dividing lines that Höglund was on. But should not the consequence of Høglund’s observation be that if Norway is really going to make an active contribution to the differences between European countries — because that is where the dividing line and the disagreement go — should Norway be able to participate fully in that discussion?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e768	If defence policy were the only European cooperation and the EU was concerned, it might have been possible to provide a simple and consistent response to it. This is not the case, however. Nevertheless, we see that challenge. That's why we say that so far there's a need to attach ourselves to this, even if we believe it should never be there. Because that's where the discussion is going to take place, and we'll be with and influence it. As I said, our line will be to make sure that we have densely tested possible connections across the Atlantic. So yes, I see the absolute representative of the pay points, but defence policy is not the only thing that European cooperation involves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e773	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e777	The debate we have here today, the government didn't think we should have. The government had thought that this question was of such little principle interest that it kept consulting the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee a few days before this meeting was to take place. It was the majority in Stortinget who finally said that this could not be dealt with this matter; it was a unanimous extension of the foreign committee that thought this would enter the open hall. In the opinion of SV, it is important that the Government takes note of this. We need a much greater transparency on important and important foreign policy issues. I'd like to ask the government on later occasions where similar kinds of issues may come up, if initially to suggest that such issues are addressed by the Storting in an open hall. This case shows that there are many important issues, both constitutional and political, that should be highlighted and that both the press and opinion should have insight into where the discussions actually go. In the SV's view, what we are discussing today is a consequence of the fact that Norway is not a member of the EU. Our position on the issue by SV is partly political and partly constitutional. That's where the Storting also separates a little bit of layers in the evaluations. As I see the debate until now, there is a large majority in the United Kingdom who, politically, want closer defence cooperation with the European Union. That is what the chairman of the committee, Mr Jagland, expresses. That's what the Progress Party says. The scepticism of the Central Party and the SV's side is political. But even those who politically want closer cooperation with the EU on defence issues want the constitutional issues to be carefully addressed. I would like to thank the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee for a nuanced, debated and very good speech on this point, which shows that the government is negotiating, and coming back to the Stortinget, is becoming extremely important for the further consideration of this matter. I am fully aware that the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs will use this as an intense argument that Norway should become a member of the EU, if the constitutional conditions are not in place, but I still think there is a very tidy way to approach this. What kind of consequences does it have for Norway to report forces that are initially outsourced by a political union where Norway is not a full member? That's the question. In the opinion of the SV, it is not wrong for Norway to participate in military peace operations. We believe that we can have an obligation to participate in certain contexts, and when the situation so warrants. Nor, in principle, do we disagree with the submission of personnel to individual operations in cooperation with the EU. But there is an important difference between this and a request for a permanent contribution to a fighting force, i.e. not a matter to be decided from time to time. What is real is that the Government wants to put 150 staff to train, closely integrated, together with an EU fighter group, which is initially made available by the EU Council, and it is difficult to imagine that Norway should be able to withdraw from such a group. The EU has planned this in such a way that at any time there will be two battle groups that can be convened at short notice. If Norway participates closely integrated in one of them, it will mean that an entire battlegroup cannot be deployed into any operation if Norway says no, as we understand it. And it's in this situation that it's problematic. Therefore, it is not certain that formalities and realities will necessarily be the same in this case. I find it difficult, as the case stands, to imagine that Norway will actually have a real veto right in an acute situation and in a situation where there are short deadlines. We're not alone in this. For example, I can. quote Grethe Værnø, who was formerly the Grandfather of the Right, and who is now the head of the Defence University Association. She illustrates it in this way in the Evening Post on October 11th this year: ‘In cases where the force is multinational,’ — as it will be, with Norway, Sweden and Finland — ‘it depends entirely on the participating countries’ commitment to participate when the EU decides unanimously to deploy it. If not, the entire battlegroup will be paralysed. The dilemma for Norway is that Norway would have made a pre-commissioned commitment to participate in an operation that is decided and managed by an EU in which we are not a member and have no influence over it.’ According to the same newspaper on 20 November, this assessment is supported by Pernille Rieker, senior researcher at the NUPI, and one of Norway’s leading experts in EU defence policy. She says, ‘The whole point of such fighting strength is that it shall be ready for action at 10 days’ notice. Norway cannot have the opportunity to say no, or to withdraw its own soldiers as we wish. The rest of the force will not be able to function as one has trained if parts of the force are withdrawn. And as long as Norway is not a member of the EU, we cannot expect to have an influence on where to use the force.’ These are the assessments that are close to being made without seeing a negotiated agreement. And we cannot understand that one can escape the constitutional problems and challenges that this case raises, unless it is explicitly stated in an agreement that Norway's ability not to participate in a situation where the Council of the European Union decides to send a fighting force is real. It is in my opinion the only thing that can clarify this. Janne Haaland Matlary also has an interesting assessment of the EU justification for establishing such a strength. She believes that much of the justification is an answer and shares the United States' view of the fight against terrorism and the security strategy. She says it like this: ‘The EU now shares the global US threat assessment. Of even greater interest is the text on the UN: although we should strive to strengthen international law and have a United Nations mandate for the use of military power, this is not an absolute necessity. And military power shall be capable of being used and threatened where necessary.’;» It is, of course, a starting point that is extremely important in Norwegian policy, and which an unisonous increase has taken place in the past, that insofar as Norway is to participate in military operations, it must be a very clear UN mandate. So also at this point, it's important that Norway clear up its position. It is easy, when discussing the NATO Response Force and the possibility of making rapid statements with top-rate military forces to a conflict, or when discussing a parallel in the EU, to get focus away from what is actually the peace-building work in the world. It is not that we primarily contribute to peace if we engage in sharp military action and forces. The most important work for peace is prevention. The most important function that Norway can have in the international community is to insist that we have to have an internationally controlled world order, that we have to do everything we can to prevent and prevent war and conflict, that almost any endless peace negotiations are better than any endless war. We must not lose sight of that perspective – although we have had a lot of foreign policy debates in Stortinget lately, naturally, because much of the content of the conflict has just been about Norway’s involvement in different conflicts – that this is just what we are discussing when all other opportunities are used, and that Norway’s main focus must be on all other opportunities. I would like to address the proposals that have been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e814	The representative Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e819	First I get to record that the Stortinget has now been presented with Kristin Halvorsen's version of the discussions in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. Then I have a fundamental question for Kristin Halvorsen, if SV believes that there is a need for such international combat groups, among other things. to support UN decisions. Kofi Annan has, as Thorbjørn Jagland said, said that there is a need for such. If SV thinks that there is a need for such combat groups that can move out quickly, because that is what is the point, the question is: Should Norway contribute? If SV answers yes that Norway should contribute, the question will be: Does SV mean that Norway should contribute alone? No, it's impossible. We don't have the capacity to do that. Norway must then contribute with others. And if one is to contribute with others in such battle groups, one must be pure, otherwise Norwegian forces will have nothing to contribute; they will rather be a danger to themselves and others. If we are going to participate with others, who are we going to contribute with – for example: Sweden and Finland? However, Sweden and Finland cooperate in the EU. Does SV have a good track record to bring Sweden and Finland to an end with cooperation in the EU and rather cooperate with Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e828	First, a little note. I guess that's not how I got in danger of breaking state secrets. The background that we have to deal with the matter in an open-ended manner today has been known through the press for a long time. Does the world need such sharp military combat groups? Yes, there is probably a need for the world – groups that, on behalf of the United Nations, can intervene in some conflicts. What we have per year. Today, NATO has and Norway participates in this context. SV had no wish for Norway to participate in such sharp military operations. We have said that we should put up our own defences in such a way that our own main priorities, based on national interests, but also on the responsibilities we have on behalf of the world in relation to the North, must go first, and so that we should participate internationally in those areas where we are strong elsewhere. This means that in the sharpest military combat forces, in the SV's opinion, Norway should not stand in line first. But that doesn't mean the same thing as we can't take part in military operations. What's a big problem now is that in many of the missions where the UN itself has the authority, Norway has minimal participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e835	For the sake of order, the President will recall – it has nothing to do with the reply to the reply – that there is a record ban from the meetings of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. It is a principle that should be applied for as long as the Rules of Procedure have decided to do so. It may not be up to individuals to interpret it on the basis of the given situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e838	I welcome the President's clarification of the Rules of Procedure on this point. It is reprehensible that reports should be given from meetings of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee of the European Parliament, especially when the minutes are misleading. So to content. Of course, the representative Halvorsen has a hundred percent right in that this is complicated. It is complicated to cooperate on an equal footing with other countries within an organisation of which you are not a member. Of course, you can give different answers on how to solve that problem. I assume that Kristin Halvorsen and I disagree – and that won't surprise anyone. However, with regard to the danger of Norway being caught here, there is reason to recall that decisions in the Council of the European Union must be unanimous. The two countries we are here to cooperate with, we know fairly well historically – Sweden and Finland – and there is little reason to believe that some of them are less careful and less peaceable than Norway is. To the question: Kristin Halvorsen did not comment at all on Kofi Annan's view of this, which was referred to by Thorbjørn Jagland. It would be interesting to hear her assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e847	I will not discuss any more the relationship between the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee and the Stortinget. But I think it'll be a bit parochial if you later like it's a gross violation of Storting's Rules of Procedure to refer to something that's been produced in the press. I can follow up on this later in an appropriate manner, because I think the Rules of Procedure on this point are quite correct. When it comes to the content of the line that Inge Wohnung came with, I think he's right. I believe that in most cases it will be that the political assessments of Sweden and Finland in relation to participating in a fighting force will be consistent with the assessments made in Norway. But that is not the point of this case. The point with regard to the constitutional issues in this case is, of course, what real rights we have if there is disagreement. It is not solved in any way, although we usually agree with Sweden and Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e854	The representative, Halvorsen, says that the problem is not solved even if we usually have common views with Sweden and Finland. So at the same time, the representative Halvorsen has said that there is probably a need for such groups. I have understood that she agrees that if we first cooperate with someone, it was working with Sweden and Finland the most natural thing. The problem is that it happens in the EU, and the constitutional around it. If it is that in nine out of ten cases we will come out like Sweden and Finland, and we will come out differently the tenth time and use the right we have to withdraw, is this not the best way to create such groups – as the representative Halvorsen actually says we need internationally, and as she agrees that Kofi Annan has asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e859	It is interesting to cooperate in defence policy with Sweden and Finland. In fact, SV has taken it up on several occasions. Last time we were going to build a field of fire on the east to NOK 1 billion, SV in Stortinget suggested that we instead cooperate with Sweden. There's a Swedish shooting field right on the other side. That time SV got the answer that it wasn't allowed to do, because we were a member of NATO, and it wasn't Sweden. So for us, it's very interesting to think more in the direction of Sweden and Finland in defence cooperation and to see the north as part of it. The problem is that we do not have to go through Brussels to be able to achieve such cooperation. That's where the challenge lies. But we see that this case actually also opens up some opportunities to discuss a defence policy cooperation that everyone in the Stortinget has previously rejected. But the principle and the constitutional is in relation to the Constitution, and in relation to whether you give away your rights to an organization you are not a full member of.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e864	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e867	In order to continue a little bit of the change of words with the representative Halvorsen – she says that one does not have to walk the road around Brussels. No, history did not need it, but now one actually needs it, because now they are an integral part of EU cooperation. And if we're going to get that cooperation, that's actually how we have to do it. One must go into the reality that exists. What makes the no-party Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party here separate layers is how one deals with the realities that lie ahead: as the Nordics look, in fact, it is in this way that we can work together on what the representative Halvorsen and the representative Lilletun agree on if necessary, international battle groups that can actually work, even when the UN calls. Norway has said a clear no to EU membership through two referendums. But Norway has never said no to mandatory European cooperation. Of course, this also applies to security policy and peacekeeping. Since the EU began to develop its own insurance policy, Norway has actively followed this development. Since 2000, Norway has both reported strengths to the EU Force Register and participated in EU-led operations – as late as yesterday, as the representative on the pay side said. Today’s issue, namely participation in the EU’s intervention forces, is, therefore, a logical continuation of Norway’s active relationship with developments in the EU. Nevertheless, it is important for the Christian People's Party to stress that Norwegian participation in these forces is not a result of a need to be present in all the EU's activities. When the EU has now decided to set up a smaller effort force, this is mainly based on a recognition that in the current security situation there is a great need for forces that can enter into crisis situations at short notice. And everyone who has spoken so far has said so, including the representative Halvorsen. It's a recognition that we've all too often come short and reacted too late when crises have arisen. The wars in the Balkans in the early 1990s were a factor in Europe’s lack of ability to clean up its own neighbourhood. But also in other parts of the world, not least in Africa, we have been sadly short when it comes to conflict and genocide that could have been avoided, if we had reacted before. The United Nations therefore needs to increase its potential for forces that can be set up in important operations on short notice. There is a great need to strengthen the UN's capacity for crisis management, not least in Africa. The UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, has stated that the EU intervention forces are in the process of establishing, will be decisive – he says, in fact, decisive – to achieve the UN's objectives. He pointed out that the EU is in a position to provide specialised capabilities that the UN’s largest contributors cannot be able to do, and would be able to set up in a shorter time than the UN can normally do. The EU aims to facilitate better cooperation with the UN, and there are concrete plans for regular meetings between representatives of the EU and the UN Secretariat. In this way, the EU response forces can contribute to ensuring international peace. Norway is a peace nation. And here I share the view of the representative, Mr Halvorsen, that, of course, efforts in areas other than those that are being debated here today are important. It has the debate that we had about the budget just before, and that we come back to in the context of the development message, documented to the degrees that we agree that it should be. But one doesn't rule out the other. It is from a common understanding of the common responsibility we have to contribute to the service of peace, that we say yes to these forces. It is important to clarify once again that Norway shall have full national decision-making powers in relation to the operations in which Norwegian forces are to participate. This is an entirely self-evident commitment for us. It must be quite clear that each individual country’s decision-making procedure will be at the heart of it. Therefore, there is no transfer of neither formal nor real authority to the EU when there is a final decision on participation. Norway does not take a final position on participation until we have a clear contract work in place and this has been presented to Stortinget. It must be quite clear that the Christian People's Party will not enter in order for Norway to enter a battlegroup if we do not have the authority to participate in a particular operation. There are several problems here today, both in replicas and also by the representative Halvorsen. Yes, if it was likely that we would have to withdraw each time, then it would be a relevant objection. But the reality is that with the common vision we have with the countries we're going to cooperate with, the probability that this will be an effective group that doesn't need to withdraw from, is present in the overwhelming part of the case. Therefore, the objection that arises is a formal objection, which does not have a substantive force for us to refuse to join these forces. Questions have been raised about Norwegian participation in the EU intervention forces will run counter to the Constitution. However, in order for the Constitution to be an obstacle, the EU must be able to make decisions directly binding on Norway on participation in operations. Besides that, I just want to point out what the representative, Mr. Jagland, said, the interpretations that he had, to which I would like to join without further ado. So we're going to get back to that. The Christian People’s Party is also pleased that the Minister of Defense clearly states that it is an unquestionable requirement that all operations of Norway should participate in must be firmly anchored in international law. There is also reason to recall that co-decision is required in the EU’s advice to launch an operation. This will in itself mean that in practice it is unlikely that there can be any talk with an operation without a mandate from the UN Security Council or otherwise clearly anchored in international law. Nor is Norwegian participation in the EU's intervention forces contrary to our relationship with the United States. Of course, we can cooperate with the United States as we cooperate with the rest of Europe. Norway's security policy is and will continue to be firmly anchored in NATO, including the transatlantic relationship, which has contributed to European peace, stability and growth since the war. The European Union's plans have been fully understood by NATO. The United States has been clear in its call for Europe to increase resources in order to be able to take greater responsibility for common security. Central NATO allies have also encouraged Norway to participate. Norway still needs a target of contributing to the further development of strategic partnerships and good cooperation arrangements between the EU and NATO. According to the Christian People's Party, it is also very positive that Sweden and Finland have just wanted Norway to participate in a cooperation with them. We are three countries that think similarly in many ways, although it is about two countries that are in the EU, but not in NATO, and one country that is in NATO, but not in the EU. Such cooperation will be a continuation of the already good cooperation we have in the Nordic Coordination Forum NORCAPS, which is precisely aimed at providing joint forces in international peace operations. We also have good experience from cooperation with Sweden and Finland through their involvement in NATO's partnership arrangements. At the last meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, it was found that Finland has more forces in such NATO-led operations than Norway has. It shows that they may have a realistic view of that type of cooperation. Otherwise, I would like to join the ranks of nice greetings to different people here today. I would like to commend the Chair of the Committee for the nuanced and insightful start of the debate. I'll actually say the same thing to the opposite side. Unlike the debate we had on Iraq, I found today that the representative Kristin Halvorsen and SV recognized the realities of a need for strengths in a completely different way – they had not responded to how we should do it, but nevertheless entered the debate in a completely different, nuanced way. I feel that the government here today is getting broad support for an important defence policy initiative, which we come back to finalising when the final agreement is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e898	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e901	Thank you to the representative Lilletun. There is basically only one question that I need to clarify with the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party. It's the relationship around the formal and what he himself said about it: there are no formal arguments, and they don't have any material force. The reality is, given that these battle groups are set up, that it is largely agreed. Then the situation arises that this is reported, but Norway disagrees, Norway believes that it is not right to include these fight groups — we know that in all decisions of this type there is a strong socialising force, which means that there will be a strong pressure to agree, but Norway disagrees. I would like to be confirmed by the representative Lilletun that the formal possibility is also a real opportunity, and that Lilletun sees that the situation arises. So Norway says no, with the consequence that Norway does not participate. I'm just asking for that confirmation from the representative Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e910	The ‘confirmation’ shall be given to the representative of Djupedal. Clearly, it must be a real possibility, not just a formal one. And if it was like we went into these groups, with these countries, and it was very likely that here we were going to end up with completely different assessments than what they had, a also asking questions about this purely practical, not formally, could have something for themselves. But based on the knowledge we have about these three countries, and knowing that it is actually going to be a coherent EU decision, we believe that the formal possibility that we have will not very often be necessary to use it. But it is quite obvious that the document we are finally going to decide on needs to be actually available. And there must be will here in the hall to implement it, when we're totally at the collision course with the decision that seems to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e919	All the phrases about Nordic cooperation and that kind of thing are much more than just a commitment to European cooperation, as Lilletun claims. Here we are talking about permanent military combat groups. We are talking about groups that will be able to be used in sharp missions, even outside the purely peacekeeping or peace-building. We are talking about adopting it by the Council of the European Union, and about Denmark, which is our Nordic neighbour, having chosen not to participate. So it's possible to say no to participation. My question is just: With your hand on your heart, is it really that no-party Christian People's Party does not see any concerns about this issue, and does not see any reason to problem some aspects of these struggle groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e933	I did not think that the representative Arnstad and the Central Party should use Denmark as an example, because they have not been involved in the cooperation that we in the Government of Bondevik I went into. They have a different form of association with NATO, so they've made it clear that they're not part of that kind of cooperation. It is quite obvious that there are counter-figures. But I'm overconfident that if we don't see the Norwegian people that we're able to keep our defence policy interests wide, it'll be a strong yes argument for membership of the EU. So there's different analyses. We are equally committed to our no to EU membership. But we believe that going into that cooperation actually strengthens the no-side and not the other way around. Here, the analysis will probably be quite different, including those that are currently in favour of this solution. But for the Christian People's Party, this analysis has been a complete cure since we started working together in 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e940	Of course, I fully respect the fact that the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party says what he says. I feel quite convinced that if the Christian People's Party had not been in government, they would probably have come to a different conclusion here too, simply because this is difficult. We are now talking about the transfer of power, an institutional change in terms of these battle groups as regards Norway's relationship with participating in EU operations. An overall no-page has previously been accepted – and not only accepted, but thought it was right – by Norwegian staff in Macedonia, and now also in Bosnia. What we're facing is an institutional change, not a matter of a practical political nature, but a far more comprehensive question. It is clear that it is difficult for the Christian People's Party to say that they would have been of a different opinion if they had not been in government. I will nevertheless allow myself to ask: Would Mr. Lilletun had spent more time on the constitutional considerations around this and the institutional in it, given that he had a slightly different position than the one he has today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e949	It's an interesting and fun thought experiment that we'll meet in a few years' time in opposite positions here. May the Lord forbid it, but nevertheless! In relation to the facts, I recognize that it's constitutionally difficult. The Christian People's Party could not have said yes if it wasn't for a real veto right. But since both parties – both the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left – have agreed to the other EU cooperation forces, we must now be better able to solve these tasks that these forces are to have. We have to be able to say that it makes sense that we are able to see these forces do their job better when they are going to solve such difficult situations. Then, as I said, we're dependent on having the veto right. But when we have the veto right, I think -- I'm used to building on faith -- I would have had the same position if I were in opposition here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e956	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e959	Debates like the one we have today are often marked by the fact that there are some people in this room who think quite strongly that people in Norway said something different than what they did in 1994. Nevertheless, in fact, in 1994 a majority of the Norwegian people said no to Norwegian membership of the EU. And the question of participating in the EU military fighting group is directly addressed in a debate on how we relate to the fact that people said no to Norwegian membership. What Norway is now committed to is to participate in combat groups, equipped and trained for sharp missions. It may be about peace-building, but it may as well be about entering a third country to combat terrorism, or it may be about pure military action. It is the Council of the European Union that is to decide on and when to take action by the combat teams, and this may take place within 10 days. We will contribute with crews, equipment and combination and commit ourselves more strongly in relation to this than is done by the EU country Denmark. When the Center Party chooses to bring Denmark out here, it is among other things. to show that Norway has a real choice in this case. In contrast to all of the cases where the yes parties on the Stortinget have said that we have no choice, that we have to adapt, it is actually that in this case Norway has a choice. We could say yes or no. There is no EEA Agreement or any other framework that obliges us to participate. The Dutch Presidency stated quite clearly, following the decisions of the EU Council on Military Battle Groups, that with these forces the EU has taken an important step forward in its plans for an increased joint military capacity within the Union. This has been said quite precisely about what the EU has of its wishes and ambitions for this force. There are many today who give us the impression that Norway should be able to pick from the top shelf when we're in. It's an impression that's often given. It has also been previously granted, in the context of the EEA Agreement. So we're going to have some kind of veto right, in the sense that we're going to be able to say no if there's a mission we don't want, and the Storting doesn't want us to participate in. Whenever one hears that it is said from the ‘yes’ parties, one should at the same time reflect on what was said related to the question of reserving in relation to the right of veto before the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. Before the EEA Agreement assured Gro Harlem Brundtland that the right of veto had been negotiated for use. And every day after that agreement was adopted, yes-lots have used to tell us that the veto right cannot be used. I'm assuming that's what's going to happen this time as well. Every day before we undertake to participate in the battle groups, the parties are going to say that we can make a reservation, and every day afterwards they're going to say that unfortunately it's impossible. And if there was a current situation, it would probably also be the answer: it's not possible. So let's do one example. According to the plans, the fight group in which Norway is to participate is to be prepared for the overall EU response force every three years. Then it'll be ready for six months. It shall then be prepared together with one other battle group, one other unit. Let us then say that a third country is asking the EU to clean up some situation; perhaps they are asking for assistance in relation to terrorism. In that case, the Council of the European Union will decide to send the two ready-to-use combat units, where Norway is one of them, on mission within 10 days. Then, as in the course of the ten days, we're going to sit back in Stortinget and say no, our 150 soldiers who are now together with the Finnish and Swedish soldiers, and who may be performing tasks that cannot necessarily be taken over by others, should not be involved because the Stortinget does not want to. That is what we shall say when the entire Council of the European Union has decided, if necessary, that we should send out a team of fighters. Is there really anyone who thinks that it's going to go into practice to make a reservation? Obviously, this is more theory than it is reality. Then we're in the middle of the constitutional ambiguities, because the requirements of cleanliness in relation to the Constitution should not only apply to what is theoretically possible, but what is actually real. And some outside the government apparatus should therefore also have the opportunity to go through the constitutional aspects of the decision that the majority is now taking. That is why the Centre Party, together with the SV, is promoting proposals here today that an independent group of experts could have gone through the constitutional aspects of being with soldiers from Norway in an EU combat group. The EU has asked Norway to participate, not because Norway was in some way obliged, but because the EU has had problems putting enough soldiers in the combat groups. The centre party simply cannot see that there are compelling reasons why Norway should say yes to this enquiry. The Central Party considers that Norway should instead concentrate its efforts on making resources available to NATO. We should also have used more of our military and defence policy resources to be involved in our own neighbourhood in the north. There we have a great responsibility, both in relation to sovereignty and in relation to stability. And soon we'll have to get to that point, I think, capacity-wise – I also see that the defence already warns against it – that we have to ask ourselves how wide we should be able to gap internationally before it goes beyond our obligations to also safeguard defence and military relations in our own area. The Central Party therefore believes that we should concentrate our resources so that they can be used in areas where we have committed ourselves, that is within NATO, and so that we can maintain our own territory in a good way. But above all, the Central Party believes that the Stortinget should have at least as much respect for the no of the people as the Danish politician has for the reservations Denmark has taken, and that we should therefore, rather than join Sweden and Finland in a struggle group, stand together with Denmark and use the free opportunity we have to say no to participate in this struggle group. Otherwise, I completely disagree with the reasoning of the Christian People's Party and Lilletun that participating in these kind of combat units is going to strengthen the no-side position of the people. If the Stortinget decides once again that one should participate in something that is considered to be objectionable in relation to the no-point that Norway took, I think on the contrary will undermine the confidence of the no-parties as well. It goes right into something that Thorbjørn Jagland tried to do earlier, in his post. He tried to leave the no-side responsible for the adjustments that the yes-side has made. It is not necessarily the no-side that is responsible for the adjustments that the yes-side has made. But I see that it is something that people experience as unfair; that they were in and said no in 1994, and that we later had yes-parties in the Storing that have adapted us to the European Union every day. A lot of people think of it as a hollowing out of what they actually contributed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e985	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e989	I'm going to have to follow up what a well-known expert advocate for government cooperation, and ask the Center Party – this time: Is it true that the Center Party is a little in doubt as to whether these battle groups are within constitutional frameworks or not? Whenever you ask for independent advice, it must be because you want to clarify the situation. In other situations, Marit Arnstad swings over to it completely sloppy, that it doesn't work. It is a very neat position that Norway should not be part of that type of struggle group, either because one is opposed to the existence of that type of struggle group or because Norway is unable to participate. It's okay. But I thought it was very strange that it should be the concern of yes- or no-party that decides this. I thought this was something we discussed on the basis of Norway's security and the concern for international international law and the ability to follow up UN decisions. In that context, yes- or no-party becomes quite uninteresting. The question of the Central Party becomes seventh and last: Is it okay for others to create these kind of battle groups to ensure that UN decisions are implemented, or does the Center Party believe that this is an uncertain moment in international peace and security, so that that kind of rapid expression groups should not exist? Or is the Central Party just going to stick to NATO, and it's going to be the only central party in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e998	The reason I pulled in the yes and no side here is simply that it did the representative Jagland, and it did the representative Lilletun, and it was a natural response to them. However, there is no doubt that the Central Party believes it is both unfortunate, unnecessary and wrong of Norway to participate in the battle groups to be established by the EU, which represent a military element of an organisation in which Norway is not a member. In the case of constitutional investigations, I think we could all have been served that there had been someone outside this house, and that there had been someone outside the ministry offices, who had assessed the constitutional aspects. It might have been the same for those who today say that they're a little bit in doubt about the constitutional sides. It might also have been an advantage for you to get an independent assessment of that relationship. With regard to the central party's relationship to that type of operation, the central party believes that we should concentrate on participating where we have already committed ourselves, and in those organisations where we are a member. Norway is a member of NATO. We have committed ourselves in relation to the NATO Response Force. There we have reported strengths, and that commitment is to be followed up. In those cases where the United Nations wants teams, it should happen either through NATO or by being a little more positive to the direct queries we have actually received from the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1007	The central party chooses in its argument to place great emphasis on continuing our contributions where we are contributing today, and in the organisations in which we are a member, mainly NATO. But what I mean is the Center Party then ignores by laying such a perspective on it, is that we – by holding on to it – exclude us from contributing to future missions. When the world around us chooses to organize itself in a different way, the question is whether we're going to stick to it or stick to the way we've always done it before. So in this case, it's about the EU and NATO getting a new division of labour, and that the kind of operations, missions or tasks that the UN might have done on its own before, the UN now needs help from other actors to solve. I believe that the Central Party in this way helps to exclude Norway from contributing to future missions, in the light of the fact that our environment organizes itself in a different way. But my main question is: What is the strategy of the Central Party to strengthen the capacity of international society to prevent – or stop – genocide, conflicts, crises?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1016	As I said earlier, the Central Party believes that Norway should contribute actively through NATO through the NATO Response Force and in the operations that NATO may undertake on behalf of, among others. UN. Nor are we against participating in individual EU-led operations, such as that in Macedonia, for example, we are not against it. But there's something quite different than saying that we're going to participate in a standing military combat group in an organization where we're not a member. I have to say that in relation to a NATO-friendly party like the Right, I think there is reason to warn against being so one-sided that one says that this is immediately duplicated in relation to NATO. I believe that a long way into NATO and far into the United States will find voices saying that there is a danger that there will be an unfortunate competitive situation between NATO and the EU. Now I don't have time to go into it, but I can also refer to researchers in Norway, for example. Sven Melbye in NUPI, who points out exactly the same thing, namely that the issue of competition here could be a problem between NATO and the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1025	The representative, Arnstad, stressed that Norway has a choice. Yes, of course we do, that is why we have this debate in Stortinget. And of course, Norway is free to answer either yes or no when we get a request, whether it's from our neighboring country or from others. But the representative Arnstad overlooks one thing when she insists on making NATO and the EU an alternative option in this context. It is that a cooperation agreement between the EU and NATO has been concluded for the longest time, allowing the EU to draw on NATO military resources under given conditions, including Norwegian NATO resources. That's already the situation, that's. But what I would like to have a comment on is what I referred to in my main post, namely that no Norwegian government has made more or more efforts to get full acceptance for Norway to participate fully in this cooperation in the EU than the Bondevik I government, where the Senterpartie participated. At that time no one – not at least I – heard a single pipe from the Center Party about concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1034	It is almost like this that when I hear wages show that one today has a cooperation between NATO and the EU, and that NATO can draw on the EU's resources, I have to ask: Yes, and so? The point is that that's not the problem here. There is no dialogue between NATO and the EU, which is the problem. It is not that Norway can participate in individual EU-led operations, which are the problem. The problem is that we intend to report a standing unit in the EU combat teams. It is not participation in a single operation. That is not what we have so far seen as a cooperation; it is a standing entity under the EU Council's command that we are going to have on standby every three years, then it is going to be there and be the European Union's cry-out unit, if that is the case. That's what's new. The fact that we also have a dialogue between NATO and the EU, and between Norway and the EU, cannot possibly be an argument that we should go into the type of military combat groups, which one has rightly tried to conceal that there are Nordic intervention groups and cooperation groups and that kind of thing, but which nevertheless is what they are – military combat groups, standing units.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1041	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1044	The Minister of Defence gave a thorough and good account of any Norwegian participation in the EU response forces and relations related to the EU Common Security and Defence Policy. The establishment of these forces is the maintenance or restoration of peace and security. For the Left, it has always been important to attach great importance to further developing and strengthening international law and the role of the United Nations, among others. by contributing to the strengthening of the United Nations’ capacity for crisis management. I'll come back to how it relates. For the Left, it is also an important point that Norway has been invited to join our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, in a joint Nordic effort force. Norwegian participation in a Nordic effort force will lead to the continuation of traditional Nordic cooperation on peace operations. Several key NATO allies have also invited Norway to participate in the EU effort force. It is important that we in Norway can contribute to the creation of a more stable world. By showing the will and ability to contribute to this kind of work, we also strengthen our own role and importance internationally. During its visit to Ireland in October, the UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, underlined the importance of strengthening the EU's capacity for crisis management and coordination of EU action. It's been important for the Left. The representative Arnstad believes that the blue berry is seaworthy, but it's also important that there's someone who can do more than what the blue berry have the opportunity to do. The world needs more than that. That's why it's important that he, who is the head of the Blue Berets, has also said that he wants there to be someone who can do more than they can do. For the Left, it is also important for Norway to retain full national decision-making authority as regards the operations in which Norwegian forces are to participate. Consequently, it will not be a question of transferring neither formal nor real decision-making powers nor military efforts to an organisation of which we are not a member. In order to carry out operations, unanimity is also required in the Council of the European Union. It will be an indispensable condition for participation that the operations are firmly anchored in international law. For the left, it is important that the right of veto is there, but that the right of veto is also real. Fears are expressed here in the Chamber that this will be a new type of EEA directive that will go through. I have more faith in the ability of the Norwegian politicians than I did, and that you can actually distinguish between what is important and what is not so important. Sending Norwegian women and men into war is absolutely an important debate that will not slip past us. What is important for the Left, too, is that Norway, by decision, must have such ample time that the Government knows that a majority is behind it in this Chamber. What perhaps amazes me the most is that this debate should distinguish between the real EU opponents and us who are not real EU opponents. My no is also based on a desire and a willingness to be with and decide. That's why my no is actually the argument that we should be able to say yes to this. It is a debate and a will that I will be in this forum, and that is why I have said no. I believe that the EU debate is on the right track if we are not to be real no-people, we want to contribute internationally in this way. Norway has often been with other countries around the world. Clearly, a lot has changed since my father was in the first German brigade after the war. The need to train together, the need to develop together, is quite dramatically changed from then on. What has been an important objection in the Left is that when several countries join forces on a command, it is important that Norwegian soldiers always refer to Norwegian command and Norwegian interpretation of international laws and regulations. The Minister of Defence has assured us of this in the Question Time. When Norwegian soldiers are abroad, there is Norwegian interpretation of human rights, of the rights of war and peace, to any Norwegian soldier.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1063	The representative Skei Grande concluded by saying something like that, that the situation of foreign strengths has changed dramatically since the German Brigade. I guess I would have added that the situation is also dramatically changed since we were in Lebanon. In 1995, UN forces stood helpless and saw that 7 000 civilians were massacred in Srebrenica. They did not have a mandate to intervene, they did not get in touch with the UN, and they were not co-interested. The paralysis of Europe in resolving conflicts and preventing bloodbaths both on its own continent and on its outskirts had become very visible. Srebrenica represents a time difference in international operations in many ways. Firstly, Srebrenica showed that such operations, with the challenges it faced in the Balkans, have in the Balkans and have elsewhere where there are operations, require robust, together with interest-rate forces with physical, ethical and moral ballast. They should be able to learn a little about the culture of the countries to which they are going. Secondly, after Srebrenica, it has been largely such that, while the UN gives the mandate, the UN gives the command to others, mainly regional organisations. It is, in particular, the African Union and NATO that have recently been under the command of the United Nations. But it's also been about coalitions. For Norway, this means that we need offensive defence budgets and long-term structural changes. I would also like to refer to the debate on the Ministry of Defence budget that took place here in the Chamber last night. Developments in Europe, changes in transatlantic relations, the extension of NATO and the enlargement of the EU play a major role in the formulation of our security policy. Interestingly, the Stortinget is today discussing possible participation in a Nordic effort group related to the EU Battle Groups, but this is also related to what I said in the introduction. It also shows the speed with which the development of EU defence and security policies is progressing. Last night's Evening Post, we were able to read that the EU took responsibility for the peace operation in Bosnia with a force of 7 000 men. This is done within the Berlin plus agreement, i.e. NATO transfers forces to the EU command. The soldiers are simply changing their hats and flags on their arms. In the case of the EU ‘Battle Groups’, this is completely different. They shall be of interest and be of their own strength, which shall be able to enter the field at short notice. Let me stress that NATO remains for us the cornerstone of Norwegian defence and security policy. It says itself in the situation we're in. It is in our interest to strengthen the transatlantic links. The development of EU capabilities in defence and security policy and in crisis management is important both for Europe and for a better EU-US balance, and also for EU-US cooperation. This is also important for the UN, which has been the subject of many people. The United Nations is increasingly setting out to regional organisations and is therefore in need of robust, together with interest rates, which have good physical, mental and ethical ballasts and which can be deployed in difficult and vulnerable areas. The EU 'Battle Groups' is also likely to be a strong force that will be widely used in African countries. In fact, I believe that the EU and Europe are going to be those who, together with the United Nations, participate in international operations in African countries and in some difficult areas. I also believe that participation in a Nordic effort group within the EU's combat groups provides important perspectives for future Nordic cooperation in several areas. Let me end by stressing: for us, it is important what kind of agreement the Government is presenting to the Storting, what principles of international law underlie, the relationship with the Constitution and what kind of real provision we have over our forces. Let me also underline what the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee said, that it is actually only the Storting that can determine whether that agreement is within the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1082	I take the floor in this debate today to respond to those who believe that the ambitions for a common European security and defence policy are something that will help undermine NATO. There have been some misconceptions and myths about the relationship between the EU and NATO in this matter. The United States should obviously be opposed to a common European security and defence policy and disagree with the EU decision to set up EU battlegroups. Against this background, there should be a significant contrast between NATO and the EU, where the reasoning is that the more coherent the EU becomes in foreign and security policy issues, the less cohesion and solidarity in NATO will be. This is not true. What the United States wants in the first place is a Europe that is more effective in foreign and security policy issues and can take on greater responsibility for European security. Instead, what can be said is that the more the EU will be able to assume responsibility for security in Europe, the more resources the United States can release from efforts elsewhere. That's the interest of the United States. This is not least important at a time when the fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are at the top of the American security policy agenda. Last night, Colin Powell spoke in positive terms about the ability of Europeans to address European security challenges. In the context of the EU’s takeover of NATO SFOR operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, he stated that this could help the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina to achieve its objective of Euroatlantic integration. Nothing in his opinions suggested that there was some American concern about a more common European security and defence policy. What is important in this perspective is that a more coherent EU on foreign and security policy issues will become a very important partner for the United States in the fight against terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. It is particularly in the area of justice that the EU has expanded and increased its action in the fight against terrorism. Joint arrest warrants, Europol and Eurojust are important in this way. In addition, the EU's so-called pillar structure will disappear when the Constitutional Treaty enters into force in November 2006. The EU will then be more able to link different policy areas and become a more active political player than has been the case so far. The EU strategic concept, ‘A safe Europe in a better world’, adopted by the European Council last December, says among other things. that the United States has played a crucial role in European integration and security, and together, the EU and the United States can do a great deal to benefit the rest of the world. This perspective shares Norway with EU countries. The EU and Norway also share the same fundamental interests as regards the international system. As the security strategy also says, security and well-being are increasingly dependent on an effective multilateral system. The basis for the relationship between countries is the United Nations. The UN Security Council has the primary responsibility for maintaining inter-peopleal peace and security. Strengthening the UN is an EU priority, according to the Security Strategy, and enabling the organisation to live up to its responsibilities and act effectively. How the EU behaves therefore has a bearing on how well the United Nations will work. This is also a good illustration of the establishment of the EU's fighting groups. Several people have referred to the UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan's statements in this way, which clearly show that the UN considers these battle groups as very important for the UN's ability to deal with security challenges and crises in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1099	What has been important for the defence policy assessments of the Christian People's Party in order to participate in the EU Security Forces is that Norway should decide on its own basis whether strengths can be put in place for any operation. What needs to be assessed is: the purpose of each operation, how the mission is planned to be resolved if there is a mandate from the UN Security Council, and that it is clearly anchored by international law – that is an indispensable point; These are assessments that need to be taken into account on a case-by-case basis, which must take place in the period from the crisis to the question of the possible use of intervention forces, and until the EU Council decides on the use of forces. In this important period, parallel national discussions will take place and national clarifications will have to take place, and Norway will have to have close dialogue with Sweden and Finland. In other words, corruption and government must decide whether the operation meets the requirements of Norway for the use of soldiers in international missions. Norway itself decides on the operations to be carried out by Norwegian forces, and neither formal nor real decision-making powers are transferred for military action. It is only when the Council of the European Union has unanimously decided to use EU forces, that the time between 10 and 15 days starts and the strength will be in place. If we have agreed to set up forces, we cannot change our mind. So I would like to make it clear that it is the process before the decision of the Council of the European Union that is crucial. If Norway decides to participate with forces, it is essential for the Christian People's Party to be Norwegian officers in the Operation Headquarters and in the Force Headquarters of the Operation Area to perform functions such as command and control. The Norwegian officers maintain control of the use of Norwegian forces, comply with national rights, and the forces are under Norwegian control. Norway has good experience in this way of working, both from the Balkans, Afghanistan and Iraq. The Christian People's Party has noted that the EU has initiated framework agreements with allied non-EU countries. It describes the guidelines and procedures for Norwegian participation, principles for participation, command, administration and funding, and will ensure Norway's influence in the conduct of operations. So the content of the agreement is therefore crucial. For the Christian People's Party, it has been an important point that it is Sweden and Finland with which we will have a joint effort, both because of the certainty that our task force will be made up of like-minded countries, for example, in relation to the anchoring of international law. It will also strengthen Nordic military cooperation and make it more focused. By participating in the EU response forces, we also help to strengthen UN crisis management. In today’s security situation, there is a great need for strengths that can address crisis situations at short notice. A rapid and flexible reaction force may be used to maintain or restore peace and security. For the Christian People's Party, cooperation arrangements between NATO and the EU intervention forces are of great importance and that they complement each other rather than compete. Norwegian participation in EU intervention forces will not weaken NATO cooperation. On the American side, the importance of Europe contributing more strongly to common security has been underlined. The Christian People's Party says no to EU membership, but yes to European cooperation. Norway is part of Europe — and must also be part of the security policy and peace process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1134	Norway has been asked to participate in the EU effort force from 2008. This is due, inter alia, to: that at the EU Minister of Defence meeting on 22 November, it became clear that the EU intends to establish 13 response forces, each of which is approximately 1,500 soldiers, together nearly 20,000. The aim of these forces is to enable the EU to deploy rapid and flexible reaction forces to maintain or restore peace and security. The EU has also stated that the intervention force should be used to support UN operations, but there is also an opening for the groups to participate without UN mandate. For many years Norway has been in the military on international missions in many places around the world, both large and small. We have participated in sharp operations and others where we have had a more controlling munitions. Norway also has previous experience in close military cooperation under EU command. Norway participated in the EU military operation in Macedonia last year, operation Concordia. Norwegian soldiers participated here in an EU force with no problems of any importance. The reason Norway has been asked by Sweden, and thus the EU, and will be part of a force of 1,100 soldiers from Sweden and 200 from Finland, is that Denmark refused such a request. Norway’s contribution is to be 150 soldiers, making it one effort force of these three countries. In this way, this request should be interesting and unproblematic. But it also has a number of concerns that it is important that we assess before we finally say yes or no and sign an agreement. Firstly, Norway is a member of NATO, with the obligations it entails. This membership has been in Norway since the beginning of NATO, and we have been a worthy and good co-player. We have felt confident that if, for example, Our northern regions would be threatened, and NATO would support three more. Just as when another NATO country needed help, we were going to be a co-player. As far as possible, we have adapted our defence budgets, troop sizes, equipment, etc. in conjunction with other NATO countries. Joint military exercises with other NATO countries are common. In addition, Norway has had close cooperation in defence policy with other NATO colleagues. The big question that should perhaps most concern us is: what happens to NATO in the future when Europe seems more and more to be caring for its defence interests itself? Would it be as interesting for the United States and Canada to contribute as much resources as they do today? Will these countries rather concentrate more on their neighbourhoods and interests? Who will then be a guarantor of our security in the north? The EU may be able to take on this role, but with the rapid development of the world, and with a picture of terrorism that changes from day to day, the Progress Party seems to be concerned, and of course it needs to be assessed. Another question many ask is whether it is right to be a member of an EU army when we are not an EU member. This is probably a relevant question, but the question of NATO's future seems more interesting to me. It can also be asked whether Norway has enough resources to join this army. On paper there are not 150 men with equipment and training too much, but in reality this can cause problems. The defence is today in a major reorganization. It's going to be reduced by 5,000 men. Large parts of the Defence Building Mass shall be sold. Our presence needs to be reduced, and material needs to be replaced. The challenges lie ahead. All of this creates a lot of work pressure and also some frustration, which once again goes beyond what the Defense is going to produce. However, it is not until 2008 that we have to deliver, i.e. be part of this force. If we say yes, I think the defense will be able to deliver what they are asked for. But it simply won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1151	I would like to begin by congratulating you on a good and broad debate. I also think I can sign every word that the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs put forward in his statement. I also welcome the fact that the Progress Party sees no reason to oppose the policy put forward by the Government in this area. But I would like to stress that Norwegian participation with 150 men in a Nordic force in the EU is about more than 150 men in military cooperation. It is about how Norway should deal with Europe and the EU when developing closer cooperation on defence and security issues. It is about our own need for security and security, and it is about the need for security and security of others. Conflict, instability and terrorism are not inhibited by borders. Long-term security and security arise through committed cooperation across borders. As a small country, Norway has been and will in the future also be dependent on NATO as our main security policy fixture. That doesn't rock the big debate today. However, it is fully possible, yes indeed important to our position within NATO, that we also participate in the cooperation that is ongoing within the EU. 19 of my NATO colleagues are just taking part in the EU Defence Minister’s meeting. It is also important for transatlantic cooperation that defence and security cooperation in the EU develop in a way that makes sense from a Norwegian point of view. When the UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, has welcomed the establishment of the EU forces of intervention, it is because he knows that these can be an important tool for the UN. The military capability of the United Nations to carry out operations requiring rapid response is limited and the establishment of the EU intervention forces is part of the comprehensive cooperation in crisis management under development between the United Nations and the EU. A key element of this cooperation is the agreement to focus on stabilisation and conflict management in Africa. When Norway contributes to an operation with a mandate from the United Nations, it is in solidarity with other people, because we in an international community should go out and contribute to security, tranquillity and order. It is also in a clear Norwegian interest to ensure that the conflicts are resolved where they occur and do not spread. There are some who believe that there is no way to be against the EU and for participation in the effort force. There I think the representative Wisløff Nilssen from the Christian People's Party was very good on the radio this morning. No to membership does not mean no to cooperation, was a formulation used by the representative. Indeed, we are totally dependent on cooperating with the EU in a number of areas, and this, of course, also applies in the area of security and security. I am very pleased that the government parties and the Labour Party ensure a broad majority, and I am also very pleased that the Progress Party is well on its way. In total, this constitutes a broad majority, both to the right and to the left in Norwegian policy, and it is a majority that has been formed by both no-parties and yes-parties. Although we have a slightly different starting point, it is possible to find good solutions that make Norway an important partner in Europe, even when we are not a member of the EU. It is perhaps the strength of Norwegian foreign, defence and security policy that we are working towards common solutions with a good anchoring in the people and with a broad majority in the UK behind us. I would like to make a few brief comments on the proposals that have been put forward, in particular the proposals No. 3 and 4. Proposal No. 3 I consider far on the way to being a question that it is natural to solve in the context of the annual budgets, and I think it is natural for me to mention what the question is about to be referred to the budget debate. As regards proposal No: 4, I think that the issue is partly a budgetary question and partly a larger one, which I think it is natural to address in connection with the government's promoting its negotiated agreement with Sweden and Finland for the Stortinget. I am pleased that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee in particular stressed that if we get the agreements we expect, the constitutional is assumed to be in order. I am also pleased with the emphasis that was made, for example. from the Progress Party, on the need for transatlantic cooperation, that it is important as far as possible to interact with NATO in the processes taking place in the EU and that it is also important to have good contact with the United States in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1173	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1176	After what the Minister of Defence said now, I hope that the proposals No. 3 and 4 may be converted into transmission proposals. We can come back to that when we're going to vote. I want to use this line chord exchange to clarify a relationship. In the debate, the word «veto right» has been used, and it may create a misunderstanding in that we should be able to veto an action. I would ask the Minister of Defense to clarify this, because I have seen it so that what we are trying to achieve is to be able to reserve ourselves against participating in an action that we do not want to participate in. This is a very important relationship when you are going to continue working on this agreement, and when it comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1183	Here I have exactly the same understanding as the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. There are three important awards for the government's vision. It's: there is a clear premise that a decision on the use of Norwegian forces is taken by the Norwegian authorities that Norwegian participation in the operations is ensured if we agree to participate in an operation that the deployment of forces is anchored in international law; These issues will primarily be addressed through national decision-making processes prior to a decision by the Council of the European Union. I would like to add, since many people in the debate have argued that all the other EU countries have the same desire for national sovereignty over their forces. This means that there will be parallel processes in each EU country before the Council of the European Union takes a decision on whether to support or not to support the involvement of the EU in an operation, and the Council of the European Union is dependent on unanimity. Norway has shown, in experience in NATO, a faster ability to reach a national conclusion than many of the colleagues I know are also sitting at the EU table.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1202	The size today clearly indicates that clarification of the constitutional aspects of this case needs to be clarified, and that this is a prerequisite for participation in the effort forces. In its statement on Tuesday, the Minister of Defence provided that the decision-making process and the assumptions put forward by the Norwegian side for participation in an effort force would be fully within the framework of the Basic Law. So we'll get back to this later. In what way will the Government go through the constitutional aspects of this matter in the preparation of the draft treaty? Will it be possible for the Government to include independent environments in these constitutional assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1211	Personally, I have an open mind to consult different internal and external environments. But I would nevertheless like to stress what is the main point – and which the Socialist Left Party has just discussed earlier in today’s debate – that it is ultimately up to the Stortingen to decide whether the Constitutional Law is respected. I'm glad that it is, at least it has been so far, a broad majority in this room that says that if they premise the Government's basis, also represented in the agreements, everything suggests that the constitutional conditions are in order. But I would like to take the opportunity to challenge SV in one area. The world is full of dilemmas. In the past, SV has been concerned about Norway’s participation in Africa, among others. in Congo, where Sweden participated with France in an EU-led operation. Does it not see that exactly what we are doing with the EU's response groups can help to give Norway an opportunity to take international responsibility in an area where SV has previously wanted Norwegian participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1218	The reservation is both a theoretical and a real question. We have theoretically seen a veto right in the EEA, which is in the agreement, but in fact there are many in this room who have said that it cannot be used, because it is not possible. There will also be an important question in the context of the fighting groups: how realistic is it actually that you can make a reservation? Every three years, the member of the fight group Norway, together with another fighting group, shall be the one standing in the strength of the EU and ready to move out. In a case where the EU could expect to move out, and Norway reserves itself, and Norway then has people in the unit who have functions — it may be connectivity, intelligence, command or staff functions — it may mean a significant delay if they do not participate. So, if Norway's reservation meets with opposition from the EU side, while at the same time delaying an operation by weeks or months, how realistic does the Council of State think it is then that one can withdraw from the struggle, with the criticism and the significant delays it might bring?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1225	I think I'm going to put it so that it's just the experience I've had in the last three years of discussing options for different operations in NATO, which makes me feel sure that our ability to say no is real. In practice, the possibility of an operation will be discussed long before a formal decision is taken. It is also true that if a Nordic action group is to participate in an operation, the three countries must, as a general rule, agree on it, because the declaration of intent presented by the three countries on 22 November states that our cooperation will be based on consensus. Of course, this does not rule out allowing two countries to participate in a given situation and not a third, but it requires agreement. That means that the normal thing is that either all three agree to participate, or it's less likely. Nor is it likely that the Council of the European Union will put forward a proposal when they know that the fighting group in question is unwilling to act. This is exactly what happens when we discuss the situation in NATO, and I have every reason to believe that it will happen in the same way in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1230	We have a discussion about some of the proposals from the Central Party and the SV that have been put to the vote here today. The Minister of Defence has responded in response to proposals No. 3 and 4, but I could imagine challenging the Minister of Defense and saying that what is involved in the economic consequences of this should be presented in that case, which is not a budgetary matter, where the Storting will get the agreement itself back to consideration. It may affect many budgets in the future to look at what you commit to financially. As regards proposal No: 2, first of all, I would urge the Minister of Defense to ensure that the Storting is presented with the assessments that the Government itself receives on issues relating to the Constitution. Secondly, I would like to urge that the environment outside the departments be consulted, because it may have an impact on the considerations and assessments of the size of the population. If not, the situation may be that the Storting must ask for its own considerations about this when the case comes to consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1237	I think I'll answer as much around as it would be in the government's interest to make sure that the Storting is as satisfied as possible with the information provided by the Government when submitting a case. Of course, it also includes sharing all the information we have received about what is important premise for a decision. With regard to purely economic matters, the situation is that the cost of participating in an operation is a matter for each year's budget. Normally, participation in the EU battlegroups would not mean anything for each year’s budget, other than the year we have actually prepared. I still think this is most natural to include in the annual budgets, but it is clear that when the agreement between Norway, Sweden and Finland is reviewed – when it is negotiated – there will be an opportunity, as in all other matters, to answer all the questions that the Storting should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1247	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 788]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1264	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 789]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1277	We then go to voting on the matters that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e1284	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Thorbjørn Jagland on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 2, from Bjørn Jacobsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e3332	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, reads:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e8086	During the debate, Kristin Halvorsen has put forward four proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposals have been distributed in the Chamber. Kristin Halvorsen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e8091	After the debate, on behalf of the proposers, I would like to transform the proposals No. 3 and 4 for transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e8096	It's noted. Thorbjørn Jagland – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e8099	I would recommend that the representatives of the Labour Party vote against proposal No. 1, since this case comes to final consideration when we have the agreement between the countries that will participate in the fighting groups. I would also recommend that the representatives of the Labour Party vote against proposal No. 2, because we expect the government will, of course, seek advice from international law lawyers on this issue. If the Storting is not satisfied with them and wants other advice, the party groups can obtain it. There are no independent experts here. The Storting must make sure to get it. That is why we are voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e8106	That is when proposals Nos 1 and 2 are voted on. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e8130	Proposals Nos. 3 and 4 have been converted into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-03.ana.ud498e8171	There is no record.
