ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e45	The representative Knut Storberget, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e53	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e56	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e61	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e75	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party and Coastal Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e86	The major cities and district centres are important engines for the development of Norwegian business. Similarly, the largest cities will be able to provide more specialised services than other regional centres. At the same time, we find some of the biggest welfare challenges in the largest cities. Concentration of people with living conditions in the inner parts of Oslo East is in a special position. It's in the big cities we find the biggest challenges of immigration. The more eye-catching it is that the government is providing a big message about the big cities without proposing measures to meet the challenges. Once again, we see a message from this government with good analysis, but without the will and the ability to take political action. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for an action plan to meet the challenges in major cities. The involvement of the State in relation to the major cities must be strengthened as part of the overall regional policy. The Labour Party will have a less expensive housing policy — by actively using the House Bank to increase new construction, by introducing a fixed state grant for cheap youth rental housing and by increasing housing support for families with children. It is therefore disappointing that the Government will reverse the important role of the House Bank and that the Government will step down support for the construction of such rental properties. The Labour Party will improve the integration of immigrants by stressing that mastering language is the key to inclusion and participation. This is why the Workers' Party has been a driver for the establishment of a mandatory introduction programme for newly arrived refugees and asylum seekers. Therefore, we believe that there should also be training provision for immigrants who live in the country and who lack Norwegian knowledge. Better language training for mothers, extended childcare facilities and the Workers' Party's proposal for full-day school provision are important measures to strengthen language skills. Similarly, the Workers' Party wants the Action Plan to facilitate active and innovative cultural life, facilitate access through increased government funding for investment and the operation of public transport, create exciting jobs by supporting regional advantages existing in individual metropolitan areas, and increase security, inter alia. through enhanced efforts in the field of anti-drugs and child protection. In short, the working party here, as in other areas, wants the state to help solve the challenges. The metropolitan region is special – also in relation to the other major cities. In this region, there are over 1.2 million inhabitants. inhabitants, it covers about 50 municipalities and ranges over four counties. There are obvious management problems here. These challenges hardly describe the government with a line in the big city message. However, the Labour Party considers these to be fundamental challenges and has therefore taken the initiative of a specific review of the governance challenges in the Capital Region. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous enlargement has gradually joined the demand for a separate capital message. Due to its role and development, the metropolis will be a natural centre of development in the region. At the same time, all parties in the Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party, have determined that it is the county municipalities that are to coordinate and direct regional development work. In order to enable county councils to fulfil this role in the best possible way, it is essential that the metropolitan municipalities are key participants in the regional partnership. In order for each metropolitan region to be a driving force, it must have a strategy for its own role and development. They must grasp their advantage and create a development based on them, and they must have a conscious view of their own identity – how they appear and how they will appear. The big city cannot be seen isolated from the surrounding area. Therefore, strategies for development and identity must have the greatest impact by moving in the same direction. Therefore, it is important that the metropolitan municipality, the surrounding municipalities, the county and the districts be able to achieve the greatest possible consensus on their different roles and on the coordination of development in the region. In order for the metropolitan region to contribute to development, it is necessary, in the view of the Labour Party, to significantly strengthen the economy of the municipal sector. This is important for the municipal sector in general and not least for the larger cities. In the Communication, the Government states that a relative improvement in the situation of big cities requires reduced regional policy transfers. The Labour Party does not agree. An active metropolitan policy and an active district policy are not at odds with each other, as the Government seems to give the impression, but is contrary to mutual benefit. For this reason, the overall regional policy must contain both a targeted urban policy and a targeted rural policy. I refer to the suggestions in the setting that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e116	The representative Schjøtt-Pedersen has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. See next column for further correction It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e123	I find the great difference between the Workers' Party's promises and the follow-up to its own housing policy as an essential part of this big city announcement striking. In Document No: 8:141 for 2001–2002 the party promoted a number of measures that were supposed to strengthen housing policy. In its alternative notes and alternative state budget, the Workers' Party is not even close to fulfilling its own promises from Document No. The 8th proposal. Only for 2003 and 2004 do they lack more than 500 million. kr. This policy of over-the-counter does nothing but weaken our confidence in politicians. In addition, the lot adds to an unsurpassed detailed management of the major cities in all six areas, with a lot of bombing points under which you want to control the metropolitan regions in detail. Where is the trust in local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e132	Before the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen gets a reply to that reply: the President understood it so that the representative made some proposals, but cannot find any proposals from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e135	That's right. They appear to be the position of the committee – the more pleasant it is if the majority of the Storting will also join. I note that in the course of the big cities, the local politicians of the Right have also pointed out the lack of analysis and lack of action to meet the challenges we are facing. Yes, it is true that the Labour Party wants political action to meet these challenges, including in the field of housing policy. We have put forward proposals in the UK on a more offensive housing policy to make it easier for young people and economically disadvantaged to get a good place to live. We have followed this up in the Grand Duchy, partly through proposals for measures to be stepped up over several years, but also through the proposal in the 2003 budget to increase the lending framework in the House Bank by DKK 2 billion, to increase housing support for families with children, to introduce monthly housing support payments and to increase the allocation of housing allowances. In the 2004 budget, we proposed to strengthen the Loan Framework in the House Bank by DKK 2.5 billion in relation to the Government's plans, and we proposed to increase the ceiling in order to receive housing support. The Labour Party is following up its proposals to strengthen housing policy. But it is disappointing that the government made a big message on Friday that implies a weakening of housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e146	I agree with the case rapporteur in one thing, and that is that the message we are processing bears the mark of being a message and nothing else. But I have to be allowed to say that I think the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen is going very high in relation to the Workers' Party, both in terms of what is stated in the comments, and in terms of the proposal for an action plan implicit in the Workers' Party's comments. I would like to ask: what is new with regard to the future urban policy, in the points that the Labour Party has drawn up here? Is it not true that the Labour Party has actually prioritised this for many years and has not succeeded in achieving a real and good urban policy? Where is the creativity of the Workers' Party in meeting the challenges for the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e153	If the representative Sandberg in the draft action plan believes to recognise the Labour Party's policy, I am pleased. It's also meant to be. Several of the measures included in the action plan are proposals addressed by the Workers' Party in different areas, which are of particular importance in relation to the very largest cities. This is not least the housing policy, where the Workers' Party wants a much more active involvement than the Government and the majority of the Stortinge. There are clear political lines of division. On Friday, the Government put forward a proposal for housing policy which seeks to step down support for the construction of youth rental housing, while the Workers' Party wants to strengthen it. We want a more active integration policy, a more active language training policy for immigrants. We note that the Government has stepped down its efforts in this area, both in the last year's budget and in the year's budget. So yes, the Labour Party is recognizable, and important elements of the Labour Party's policy will help to strengthen the big cities and meet the challenges there in a better way. This action plan will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e162	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has been the finance minister of a former government, and he knows very well that it is actually not hallelujarop from the pulpit of the Stortinge that counts when it comes to distinguishing the policies of the various parties, but what the various parties grant in their budgets. Then it is no use for the Workers' Party representative to stand here on the pulpit and say that the party has a completely different and offensive housing policy than that of the Government, when in the alternative state budget of the Workers' Party there is no more one krone for the construction of rental homes, not one krone for the construction of several low-income housing units, not one additional krone for the construction and repair of the lift and the standard of living in the existing housing stock. Then I prefer honest Right-State councils who say that they want to invest less in housing policy, rather than workers' party people who say they want to invest more in housing policy, but who actually don't put up with the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e167	In the context of the 2003 budget, the Labour Party had proposals to strengthen rental dwellings, in relation to the development of low-deposit housing, the strengthening of housing support and the strengthening of housing subsidies for the improvement of dwellings. We also proposed a significant strengthening of the Husbank's lending framework, which is, of course, absolutely fundamental in order to build this type of housing. In the 2004 budget, we prioritised a strengthening of the Husbank loan framework of DKK 2.5 billion compared to the level proposed by the Government, and we added an increase in the ceiling for housing support for families with children of 120 million. kr. It is true that we prioritised housing support for families with children in this year's budget. That, I believe, was an entirely correct priority when we faced the cut government here made in relation to what we had managed to achieve for 2003. So there can be different assessments of realism in different areas. I note that the Workers' Party has been the architect behind the housing policy we have had in Norway, which has been relatively successful, and that we still intend to be a driver for further development of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e177	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e180	It is not everyday food that Stortinget focuses on the opportunities and challenges of big cities. The government deserves praise for wanting to design a policy for the large part of the country's population living in metropolitan and urban regions. It is a strength that the government’s city announcement has been developed in cooperation and dialogue with the country’s largest cities. The response from these cities is also positive. The government is praised for wanting to develop a metropolitan policy and for drawing a broad picture of Norwegian cities and metropolitan regions. The role of big cities in a global perspective is also a theme. The Communication highlights that it is of national interest to develop a policy for the metropolitan and metropolitan regions. Similarly, there is an intention in the Communication to ensure the balance between parts of the country and regions in relation to population growth and welfare development. Major cities are assigned the role of motors in regional development. The Storting Communication draws up perspectives for a long-term urban policy and invites dialogue on the long-term perspectives. In the light of this dialogue, the Government will draw up more concrete proposals. In fact, the working party has been critical all along and has had infections against the big city message. The party requires more active action, according to Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. Former City Council of the Workers' Party in Oslo, Kaare Sandegren, said in the Newspaper on 30 January: ‘The government has little regard to the importance of major cities for the overall national function and for the country as a whole.’ Both parts are equally wrong. The party's claim for action refers to the lack of detailed management of the municipalities, and Kaare Sandegren's claim falls on its own unfairness. The notification is precisely based on the fact that major cities are very important for the development of the different parts of the country. Although it hurts for the opposition to admit it, it's actually the first time it's been promoted a big-city message that takes up big-city policy in its full breadth. The message is a good follow-up to the Sem Declaration's promise of an active and positive metropolitan policy. There is no contrast between good urban conditions and high-growth regions; on the contrary, regions are also dependent on functioning cities and regional centres. The right attaches great importance to the accuracy of the notification of good cooperation between major cities and regions. Major cities play a central role in our goal of further developing high-growth regions in all parts of the country, precisely to ensure balanced development. Everyone should have the freedom to live where they want. It is of great importance that cities can give their inhabitants the opportunity to have a good life. It requires attractive, functional and environmentally friendly cities. We welcome the focus of the Communication on better coordination of state policies towards the metropolitan area. The notification follows the principles of the Government’s modernisation work. Priority should be given to resource use by municipalities themselves. They have the primary responsibility for their own development and their own future. We see that the municipalities, depending on their size, will be able to perform different tasks. Large municipalities or municipalities in intermunicipal cooperation will have better prerequisites for taking on more tasks than the small municipalities have. For the right, it is important to stress that tasks should be handled as closely as possible to users. There is little doubt that the big cities are able to handle several tasks on their own and that cities can thus be given greater overall responsibility for the service provision. We wholeheartedly support the efforts to decentralise increased responsibilities and powers in the municipal sector, so that municipalities can design their services themselves in relation to local challenges. According to the report, big cities should have more room for action. On the right, cities want to provide better opportunities and greater responsibilities through increased framework funding, reduced detailing and municipal task differentiation. This is a continuous and cross-departments work that will contribute to experience on how to further develop the division of tasks and to assess the further responsibilities of municipalities in terms of better provision of services for citizens. The efforts undertaken by the Government and described in the urban announcement are exciting and will help improve the provision of services to the population. Big cities have a number of challenges, but they also have skills and opportunities to solve them. Increased responsibility for urban authorities in individual areas could therefore contribute to the development of the service provision, in particular for the weakest people. In the right, we are now closely following the tests that have been carried out in relation to different forms of municipal task differentiation. This concerns child protection in Trondheim and Drammen, family protection in Oslo, cultural memories in Bergen, Kristiansand, Stavanger and Tromsø, and SATS in Tromsø and Stavanger, just to mention something. It is useful to gain experience through trials, in particular because of the differentiation of tasks, including: by assigning functions other than those of smaller cities to the largest cities, it also affects the functions of the different counties. These are clearly issues that will be discussed on a broader basis in relation to the question of the division of tasks between administrative levels. In this regard, I would just like to remind you of the warning of the evaluation of the new county municipality, where we will certainly come back to a broad structural debate. The government wants better coordination of state policies and will establish a new system for better coordination of state policies in the metropolitan regions. As a municipal politician for many years, I can sign that there are many conflict areas and obstacle factors in the interaction between the state and the municipality. It is good that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is now responsible for the coordination of state policies towards the major cities and that the Ministry is given responsibility for finding solutions to conflicts related to the financial framework conditions for the planning and implementation of urban development projects. However, it must be mentioned that conflicts relating to land and location issues continue to be resolved through the planning system. We also support the continued Forum on Urban Development as a forum for discussion on framework conditions and principles for urban development and the further development of this Urban Development Forum and other arrangements for dialogue between the cities and the state. We also support the Government's proposal to develop a model of overall state governance towards the metropolitan areas and point out that the order proposed in the metropolitan notification does not replace this planning system but ensures that adopted plans can be implemented. The concern of the Progress Party and the accusation of the county municipality as a supremacy are groundless. The county does not have over-municipal authority. This was an important premiss in St.meld. No 19 for 2001–02, on the division of tasks, just so it’s said. All parties agree that state authorities must ensure that major cities have the capacity to carry out their tasks and to achieve the objectives they themselves have set for the development of the region. There is no disagreement in the Committee that sufficient financial resources are essential for the task of the metropolitan municipalities as well as other municipalities. For this reason, the Government proposed in the 2004 State Budget the strongest growth in the municipal economy for several years, particularly in the free revenues. The municipal sector was further welcomed in the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party. In addition, increased use of framework funding over earmarked government appropriations will help to increase the freedom of metropolitan and other municipalities to prioritise funds for different purposes. It's amazing that some parties – and I have the Center Party in particular – cannot see that the action rooms of the municipalities are more than just crowns. Not everything is economics. The space for action is also important to dispose of the money that is actually available. In the 2004 municipal proposal, the Government presented an overall plan to reduce detail management through the designation of funds, but the opposition parties went against many of the proposals in the plan. Unlike the opposition, we focus on following up in practical policy the belief in the self-value of the municipality as a locally and democratically elected joint body. Unfortunately, despite the fact that many parties may feel that the freedom of action of the municipality is very important, there is still the desire of the different opposition parties for central standards, state price schemes and the designation of funds. I hope that in the future we will be able to get more than a party speaker and allow the local level, the municipalities, to gain greater self-confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e224	The Right option says that they will bring great local freedom, but will still have a holistic control over the big cities. How does Right mean this is related to the local economy where a burden with an accumulated deficit of 12 billion dollars is involved? Is it not the case that the local economy should be consistent with the tasks to be resolved? Otherwise I find that the message is almost entirely free from mention of the region from which the representative Holmberg comes, namely the border area. Doesn't the representative Holmberg think that this region is also struggling with the same challenges that big cities have? The Storing Message does not respond to the challenges in our opinion. That is why the Labour Party lacks an action plan for a holistic urban policy. Does the representative Holmberg think that this message gives good enough answers in its full width, which she herself referred here from the pulpit, or does this just get confused with a lot of fine words?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e233	This line could be used for a whole new article. Right wants great local freedom. Our policy includes concrete proposals that provide opportunities for increased action spaces for municipalities. This also applies to the economy, and I would like to remind you that in the last two years the budgets have proposed strong growth in the local economy, as opposed to previous governments. As far as my own area, Grenland, is concerned, it is clear that as a metropolitan area consisting of different municipalities, Grenland has the same challenges as these six cities that are now defined as major cities. We also say that in the message. Clearly, the area I come from, Grenland, will have to take the discussion seriously in the future. Like many other areas in this country, you should consider whether to be small individually or whether to develop into larger units.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e242	In his statement, the representative Holmberg from the Right said that they fully support the decentralised power and responsibility of the municipalities. She further said that the concerns of the Progress Party about the county council as a supranational body are groundless. Now, in the Progress Party, we are critical that the County Municipality is assigned what we call a supra-municipal authority in planning and land matters. We have already recorded that there have been several conflicts in relation to and between county plans and municipal regulation decisions in land matters. Thus, in times when the government is advocating and will strengthen municipal autonomy, one in the Right is satisfied with the role of the county council as a kind of supranational body in linking it to physical land disposal – that it actually happens and has happened. I've even seen a lot of examples of that. That is why I am somewhat surprised at the representative Holmberg presented here from the pulpit in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e249	I mentioned in my speech that as a municipal politician for fourteen years, like the representative Torbjørn Andersen, I have seen a number of examples of obstacles and conflict areas in the planning work and in the interaction between the different levels of government. But we are now dealing with a big message that is about to give the course further ahead, and here the government is going into a model where, in vulnerable areas, a dialogue is going to take place, where the departments, with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs as the principal, are going to be the last instance in those areas where there is no local consensus. It is a last authority to solve any problems. With regard to the county council, which I know the Progress Party is very concerned about, I point out that we are going to have an evaluation of it, and then there is plenty of opportunity to come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e256	There is no contradiction between a good urban policy and a good rural policy, but there is a sharp contrast between a good policy of distribution and the unsocial fiscal policy of the Right. It has entered the municipal economy and is directly involved in the welfare provision of those who have the most difficulty. You can see that in this city, and you can see that in every other city, because that's where the social differences are greater. So my question to the Right goes on: Why are the Right so frenetic opponents of giving cities and Norwegian municipalities the opportunity to operate a certain distribution policy by being able to have a freer taxpayer? Then you could take care of some of your own problems on your own. In Oslo, for example, there is the richest of the country and the poorest of the country, and we have a municipality that is seriously struggling with its municipal budgets. Why does the Right believe that neither the local politicians nor the citizens of Oslo are competent enough to make such a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e263	In labour-party-driven Grenland, property taxes, high taxes, maximum income have been in all areas throughout the year. I think that if we introduce freer taxpayers into the municipalities, we'll see that you put on the maximum there as well. I do not want it to be a guideline. SV has totally misunderstood economic policy. SV spends the money before the money is obtained. Economic policy must be based on a society that provides a good framework for business, and then, in fact, taxation is an essential element. Lower taxes, lower taxes, better interest rates and the crown price we now have will be stimulating to business. It will increase the momentum and give our country the foundation we need in economic policy, and then we can distribute it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e268	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e271	The debate about the big city announcement must necessarily be a little low on blood, and that is because, as I also stated in a previous row today, it bears the mark of being a message and nothing else. I see the message as a more or less selective collection of facts about Norwegian cities and relationships related to these cities. There are a few points that crystallize as the government's goal, and we look at some, these are once again vague and unpoliticized. The vague intention of the message to give major cities more power and an expanded role in terms of service production is, of course, a positive view of the Progress Party. The big cities and municipalities, for the rest, should gain more power, but the Progress Party therefore points out that this should be done at the expense of the county municipalities and bureaucrats. Otherwise, I have to say that the attitude itself is very much like a rehearsal exercise – if I am allowed to say so – in relation to the last years' municipal propositions and district policy statements. There's nothing here that crystallizes itself in relation to what you want with the big cities, and not at all what you want with the capital. The progress party is also modest in this respect in the setting. But we are very pleased that the Committee unanimously agrees with the proposal of the Progress Party that we should have our own capital message. Then one might say that one might push decisions and decisions in that way, and I agree that to a large extent, but if we had taken that job in relation to this big city announcement, I'm afraid that in relation to district policy and regional policy, the capital had actually become a loser. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State and the Government now, when we ask for a separate capital message, concentrate on the challenges of the capital and on the capital as an engine in relation to the area as well. The only thing in this Communication that you can address and try to get a debate out of is that the Government proposes to establish a separate coordination system to deal with issues where there is a disagreement between the State and the major cities, in particular with regard to the financial framework conditions for planning and development. After all, the government writes that the scheme should have its ideal function. «where there are approved plans for development but where changes in state priorities or insufficient participation prevent the implementation of the project».The scheme shall be complementary and shall not entail any expenditure for the State. This sees the Progress Party as a further state governance towards urban policy and nothing else. If you look at what is in the setting on page 11 and in the letter sent by the Council of State to the Workers' Party on 23 January 2004, it clearly gives the impression that the Government wants stronger governance towards the major cities, and then to a large extent towards the capital. Now it was also said by the representative Holmberg earlier today that this should be the last instance. But what's being added here is that all the big cities are now going to be allowed to try within the framework set up by the state, until it comes to the decision of the bureaucrats. So there's no political decision in the end about what's best for the big cities or the capital. That's what I'm sorry for, and that's what I think is sad. It must have been much better to go before the proposals of the Progress Party, where an attempt is made to change the working methods of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs so that the Ministry is given an increased role as a service organisation vis-à-vis the big cities and municipalities, instead of adding to a practice where all municipalities and big cities are now going to try everything to satisfy their own inhabitants, but where one must finally go up to the department for the decision of a bureaucrat. I will end by promoting the proposals of the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e292	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e297	In big cities, there are major challenges to solving problems for immigrants. I would particularly like to mention three areas: providing proper language training, obtaining income-generating work and giving people a chance to find housing. The Progress Party shows a lack of willingness to take active action to help disadvantaged groups to find work and find housing in which they can afford to live, and to bring about much-needed integration. My question to the representative Sandberg must therefore be: why does the Advance Party not show active willingness to take action to help disadvantaged groups in the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e304	I thought I might open the reply loop saying that I do not understand the question. Obviously, when the Workers' Party takes the angle that they're doing here, it's going to be completely wrong. The Progress Party has put forward a whole range of proposals on large resources to remedy the situation in major cities, especially for the weaker groups. For more than 20 years, the Progress Party has been working for compulsory language training, community training and labour training for immigrants in Norway. The Labour Party has consistently voted against until April 2002. Coming back later and saying that the Progress Party lacks the willingness to give priority to language teaching and integration for immigrants becomes completely meaningless. But I'll give praise to the Workers' Party. That it took them 20 years to figure out what the Progress Party proposed, we can say is sad, but it's never too late to turn around. I also hope that, in future, the Labour Party will see that a number of other proposals that the Progress Party has to give priority to the weakest are also sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e311	The Progress Party has just made a proposal asking the Government to draw up a model to transform the working methods of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs so that the Ministry is given an increased role as a service organisation for the municipalities. Then there are some questions to the representative Per Sandberg: what does that mean? Is it about providing extra service to the big cities, since the proposal has been taken up in connection with this matter? Or is this meant to compensate for the role played by the Municipal Council? Or does the Progress Party here consider a kind of group model, where the state stands for the core business and the municipalities are the branches that will get some service from the group management?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e318	We in the Progress Party have never concealed that we want more government responsibility in relation to the financing of the primary tasks. But in particular, with the greater willingness of the department to provide services to the big cities, and also to the rest of the municipality of Norway, it is a response to what the government wants in terms of coordination. We look at what the government is proposing here, more like a conflict council. If the major cities and municipalities disagree on state policy and do not manage to adapt to state policy, the ministry, that is, a bureaucrat, will ultimately decide. We see that as a conflict council. We would rather have strengthened coordination and dialogue with the big cities and municipalities by the department, instead of the bureaucracy in the department ultimately deciding what big cities had to do to satisfy their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e325	Since Per Sandberg does not understand the question when it comes from the Workers' Party, I may be able to eat it a little bit so that he understands it now. It's about people with a minority background. The progress party says that the most important thing we can do is to make sure that everyone learns Norwegian. The Progress Party also says that people with a minority background who come to Norway must pay for their Norwegian training themselves. I don't know, I, but usually the Progress Party wants market forces to prevail. And usually we say that the more expensive something is to do, the fewer is what's going to do it. Then I ask, if you want to make sure that everyone learns Norwegian, that you see it as an important challenge, does the Progress Party believe that there are more or less people who get the opportunity to learn Norwegian, if, first of all, they do not receive Norwegian training on asylum recipients – as the Progress Party secured with the Government – and, second, do not get paid for Norwegian training in the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e332	That's absolutely correct. The progress party does not have the same intentions as SV in relation to providing Norwegian education to all those who had to come to this country. There we put some constraints. It cannot be the case that the State is responsible for the teaching of Norwegian by all those who come to this country. There must be some constraints. The state cannot be responsible for the fact that people who have lived here for 20 and 30 years are teaching Norwegian. If you have not had the ability and initiative to learn a little Norwegian yourself, it makes no sense for the state to go in with millions of dollars to teach these people Norwegian. The Progress Party has been quite clear on one point: New arrivals who have been accommodated will immediately be through a compulsory programme. It has been fighting since 1982, and now it has been implemented. From 1 August this year, this will be carried out in line with what we wanted. With regard to the matters currently under consideration in the Committee, other groups, the Party of Progress has not drawn any conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e343	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e346	In my opinion, the big city message is a manifesto of how disastrously wrong it is to have a Right-dominated government to lead the fight to make everyone feel better in the big cities, primarily because there is no concrete plan to solve the biggest challenge, namely to provide good and safe housing for everyone at a price to live with, and then because the big city message does not have ambitions for a fairer distribution between rich and poor communities in the big city. It's within the big city we find the greatest differences between the rich and the poor, and this development has only shot speed in the last few years, especially after the new Bondevik government came to power. Within Oslo, where we find the greatest differences between the rich and the poor, it is that in the district where the richest people live, in Oslo 7, the city of West Aker, which has grown in the last three years to a total of 50 p.m., while in the district where the average people earn at least, namely on Grorud, they have had lower average income, they have had a decrease in income of 3.2 p.m. Then my question is: if you don't have ambitions to do anything about the huge increase in differences, how in the world are we going to be able to create a big city where it's possible for people to live together, and where everyone is going to be able to contribute to common prosperity and well-being? The main reason for the increase in differences is the tax on dividends. The government is otherwise very careful to say that all the money that comes from the state should be targeted at people who need it the most. But in the case of dividends, it is quite clear that the Government has a completely different policy, namely that the greatest tax burden should be targeted at those who need it the least, namely those who already have the most. This is a fundamentally unfair policy that I have never stopped to surprise myself that the Christian People's Party can participate in. The main reason why the Government will not address the main challenges is that of the Sem Declaration, the basic dogma that the growth of government expenditure is to be lower than the growth of mainland gross domestic product. To put it plainly, public consumption and welfare systems – the money we spend at school, on poverty reduction, on getting people a proper care for the elderly, on getting people a safe place to live – are to make up a smaller and smaller share of the economy, and private consumption is to make up a larger share. You want more mobile phones with polyphonic ring sounds, bigger cars and galloping housing prices, but less money for well-being and less money for people who need it the most. Housing is the very foundation. The Municipal Committee has been talking to most other major cities directly during hearings and otherwise, and also Right-Handed cities say that the main measure that can be taken to make sure that there is something to do with the differences in cities and do something for the people who need it the most is an offensive effort to build more rental homes, an offensive effort to provide money for both urban renewal and more rental homes. Then it's funny that when the government of Erna Solberg now presents a housing report – as she did last Friday – she spends all of her efforts to spend less money on housing measures and abolish the last funds available both for urban renewal and to provide people with living standards on their homes, while cutting the transfers that go to the construction of several rental homes. So she speaks to them in her own party who would presumptuously know what the big city problems were, in the middle of it. How to get a good urban policy in that way is completely impossible for me to understand. The main argument for this is that building rental homes is forcing people into a poverty trap. But I'm going to say what is forcing people into a trap of poverty. First of all, it's to make sure that not enough houses are built, so that the housing prices increase, as they have recently done, as well as that you don't have enough rentals so that people can actually get a proper, cheap rental home. Then you're trapped in a poverty trap, because there's nowhere to deal with. An example of this was seen in the evening edition of the Evening Post yesterday. It said about a guy with a minority background who had been on 130 different views but had not been accommodated. Then I say that if you leave the entire housing policy to the market, we will not be able to get him a dwelling in the future either. You have to make sure that either OBOS, the other housing units or the municipality have rental properties that it is possible to give to people who need it. SV will invest 600 million in its alternative state budget. kr on a large-scale investment in dwellings, a large-scale improvement in the housing support, i.e. the construction of several rental dwellings. In addition, we want a more offensive policy for balancing the differences between people through a more fair tax system, where those who have the most money are also the ones who pay the most in taxes, and not the ones who pay the least, when they milk companies for dividends. The major challenge, however, is that if we are to do something to enable big cities to meet their own challenges, they will need more money in public budgets. With SV's scheme, for example, Oslo Municipality had an extra DKK 1 billion to spend on different measures, both to improve living conditions for people, to bet on better integration and to give more people a better offer. We would have done that with SV's policy, and it would be to have a real big city policy. Together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, SV has said that what should be done in this big city announcement was to be specific about what we wanted to be concrete about what ambitions we should have for the big cities. It would be to bet on an active cultural life, to bet on building more cheap homes, to do more to improve integration, both by providing better language training, providing more, better and cheaper childcare facilities, because we have reports that what gives people the best language training, which is the most effective for the best integration possible, is to give all kids a kindergarten space, to give all kids an opportunity to be a place where they can play to learn the language in a good way. It's also, of course, by doing the things that we're concerned about in everybody's life, namely getting work for everyone, getting housing for everyone. In these areas of society there are people with a minority background who feel the greatest skewer. In addition, there is no doubt that a major challenge for big cities is to get something done about public transport. It is then paradoxical that while the smallest trunk and the smallest section of the route play a role in the national transport plan, for example, Oslo’s public transport is seen as a city task and does not have a central place in the transport plan. What is good is that through the treatment of the metropolitan notification, as also the Oslo City Council and the various parties in the City Council wanted, we have come to the conclusion that we should develop our own plan for the metropolitan area. It is a unanimous committee that has come to the conclusion that a separate capital message should be drawn up. The different parties have different ambitions about what's going on, but we think it's important to see how we can solve the common challenges in the field of transport and in the development of a common residential area in the Oslo region, how to create good governance structures for this, how to properly manage the Nordmark. We believe it is important to set in motion a plan to solve the challenges in the Grorud Valley. It should also be considered whether Oslo can have more tasks as a big city. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that we are dealing with with the Central Party in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e381	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e387	The Labour Party wants to locate new state jobs out of Oslo if there's no specific reason why they should be in Oslo. This comment does not support SV. Therefore, I am a little uncertain about what is actually the SV's hold on this question. I note that SV is co-sponsored with the Center Party for a proposal asking the Government to assess the relocation of state-owned enterprises from the Capital Region. This seems to me a little useless from SV's side. What's the actual SV mean? The working party understands that some big cities may wish to free the area that is currently being used for port, to create green lungs out to the sea. However, in our opinion, this must be assessed against road impact. Does it not see that traffic issues may be a relevant issue when making such land disposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e396	To answer the last question first, it is clear that we see challenges in terms of solutions to traffic problems. But we see the comment that stands in the setting, as a pure rematch from the Labour Party. The working party is most likely to enter hidden rematches in the settings. We didn't want to be part of what's going on about Fjordbyen, the debate about Fjordby or the port city in Oslo, where a majority, which is also part of SV, is clearly in favour of us having a fjord city with a large stake in housing development. Compared to the first question, SV is fundamentally different from, for example: The centre party, which in this setting – and as they did in the treatment of the state budget – is in favour of the relocation of jobs over a low shoe: think of a number, 5,000, we must have them out! There's no SV. We also do not want to get these messages from the Government, where they are partly and partly transferred from state workplaces. If we're going to have a relocation at all, as SV goes in to assess in its work programme, we think it should come in a whole context instead of piece by piece and division, as the Government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e403	The representative Holmås held a typical SV post, in which he described largely the most that had to be wrong in this country, and he blamed of course all the blame on the right side of Norwegian politics. Of course, the right side is responsible for all the misery that exists in this country! The representative Holmås put emphasis on residential construction, and also rental properties. But it's that you can't strengthen cities just by building homes, you have to strengthen the infrastructure at the same time. I'm almost going to challenge SV in an area where it might not be a good idea to challenge them, but I'm doing it anyway: don't you see the need for a better road system, which is important for the big cities and the big cities infrastructure? Why not see a better road system as important for Norwegian cities? I would like to have an answer to that, because in the contribution of the representative Holmås there was only a focus on collective transport solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e410	It is clear that SV is for efficient road systems in big cities – something else should be missing. But we've undertaken that task of standing up as defenders and champions of the collective systems, simply because, for example, it's the same thing. The party of progress seems completely blind because it can be an important part of the big cities. Should we, for example, do this? built the road over Frogner instead of having the T-course going between Majorstua and the National Theatre, we had needed a twelve-field highway all over that area. It goes without saying that what is the solution and the main challenge for big cities is to get a real commitment to public transport. Over the past 15 to 20 years, there has been a dramatic decline in money spent on public transport above the State budget and above county budgets. But there's certainly been a lot of money going on in the big cities. We see the need for what we need to prioritise is public transport, and we want that with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e419	The starting point for welfare country services, e.g. schools, hospitals and care facilities were private or voluntary services which were subsequently funded by the community. For the Christian People's Party, the quality of services is still the most important thing, and not who delivers these services. Then it's strange that SV, who will share well, write that the most important thing is that these services are public, or else write them, "will eventually be able to get a takeover on the public, and determine the price and design of the services". What's wrong with good and reasonable services? Because it's just that the private can win the competition. Who is the SV really focusing on, the users, the patients and the school students, or the providers of the services? If private people deliver cheaper and better schools, won't the students get it? And if volunteers provide cheaper and better care for the elderly, does your grandmother not intend to get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e428	I would like to point out a paradox in relation to what Anita Apelthun Seele just said. If there have been some people who have struggled to allow voluntary actors to participate in the provision of services, including to the public, it has been SV. We are the ones who have suggested that the Church’s City Mission and the Salvation Army and the other private actors who operate and provide services, but who are not profit-based and profit-oriented, should be exempted from the EU Procurement Directive relating to public procurement schemes. It has been so that the volunteer organizations have come to us and asked if we can't be so kind as to address this, because the government is deaf. Then we've brought this up, and then the government has listened, both to us and to the others. We are certainly not attached to the fact that private operators and private monopolies are replacing the public sector. We have absolutely much more faith that the community will decide how services can be performed, and then we will also have with non-governmental organisations. Luckily, we've got the government on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e435	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e438	The big city message can be briefly summed up as follows: The elected city politicians are to be masters of their own houses. The government has provided a holistic urban policy, and by decentralizing power and form, the city politicians should now have the opportunity to create the good life for the inhabitants. Clearly, the biggest cities have a number of challenges. Something's in common. It can be public transport, innovation and environmental problems, or social problems such as crime, drugs and psychiatry. But there are also big differences between cities. That's why it's actually a raiser when the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party propose detailed solutions for all major cities. If, in my view, it is really the intention of these parties, that the state should govern housing policy, cultural policy, collective provision, integration policy and the development of jobs, then the Christian People's Party is disunity in it. Problems cannot be solved in the same way in Bergen and Tromsø, or in Trondheim and Kristiansand. The Christian People's Party believes in local democracy and believes that local politicians have both the ability, the white and the insight that makes them willing to rule in their towns and cities. Fortunately, it will hardly be the same solution as chosen from city to city. Norway is a long way off. We want to give the big cities greater responsibility and greater freedom. We believe that the local level is best placed to assess the scale of the problems and to give priority to the measures needed. We believe that challenges require different solutions with local twists. Big cities have to take responsibility for creating visions for their development. The State should be involved in the realization, but not in the detail management. Half of the people here to land are living no in our metropolitan regions, i.e. in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger, Kristiansand and Tromsø. In addition, many in other cities live as one must characterize as relatively large cities, such as Fredrikstad, Moss, Porsgrund, Skien, Kristiansund, Bodø – I could mention more. Some of these buildings are divided into several municipalities. Of course, this does not reduce problems. For example, the border area could: to the advantage of having been regarded as one unit. It is also a fact that rural areas are being thinned out. The reason is simply that people move to town because of work, because of education and because of cultural provision. Very many young people see it as living the good life best in the city. It's always been like this. Moving electricity has been striated from rural to urban. All metropolitan regions have a population growth of 20 pst. or more in the last 30 years. The biggest growth has actually been Stavanger and Tromsø, with 50 pst and 50 pst respectively. and 48 pst. growth. But in absolute terms, Oslo has had the largest growth, with 230,000 inhabitants. For this reason, the relocation of state supervision, and therefore jobs, is a sensible policy. The cities also collect labour from the surrounding municipalities. In Oslo and Stavanger almost half of the workforce comes from municipalities outside the metropolitan boundary, in Bergen, Trondheim and Kristiansand approx. 25 pst. What's new now is that the former birth surplus in rural areas is gone. For example, there are families with children before send two out of four children to the city and someone to move home to the siblings and to the family, when they themselves formed a family, now all the children travel to the city, and the parents are left alone. Then there's no environment to go home again. The demographic winter is on the road, and it marks a first in District Norway. Decline in the population is very difficult to deal with, and biased population balance is even more difficult. Fast growth is almost as difficult. Our problems are, to a large extent, identical to the whole of Europe. As I mentioned at the beginning, the big city message focuses on greater freedom, more tasks, greater responsibility, less detailed legislation and changes in the income system that make elected representatives more master in their own city. There are three objectives: creating the good life of the big cities to ensure that population development and welfare developments are evenly distributed between regions and regions to increase value creation and social welfare by exploiting the advantages of the big cities In one area, I would like to claim that the message has been reinforced. Who is responsible for regional development? The setting is optional: it is the county municipality. I call on the big cities to take responsibility for regional development with the county. It shouldn't be a fight. It should be a cooperation. For the big cities, depend on the rural communities, and the county depends on the large municipality, the city, acting as an engine and a driving force. There is therefore no contradiction between good conditions for the city and high growth regions. The city's problems are evident in the city's size and government. That is why we have introduced the urbanity criterion, or the intoxication and psychiatry criterion, because drugs and psychiatry are overrepresented in the big cities. In fact, Oslo has half the country's drug addicts. We have to take care of that. We have introduced a new date for the growing communities to take care of the new inhabitants. The corporate tax should provide incentives to invest in industrial development in cities as well. Reduced ear marking, greater freedom and the relocation of to now eight state supervision are important. Let's hold on to an indisputable fact: Norway is by the UN three years in a row the rank of the world's best country to live in. It could easily be like this for the fourth time. And in the big cities, half the people live. The United Nations team means that city politicians have done a good job. Year after year, the municipalities – including the big cities – have turned all the stones in order to make the economy jump under varying governments. The requirement gets bigger. The Christian People's Party will affirm that greater freedom and less centrality may be a fact before this period of government is over. There are undoubtedly large administrative costs associated with detail management from the country. It also applies to voluntary organisations. This government should make Norway simpler. This means that reorganization, efficiency and targeting are not over. The natural conclusion is that it's going to be difficult to be a city politician in the years to come, but they're going to get a slightly larger part of the cake, a cake that hopefully gets bigger overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e483	In the setting of the big city message, the Christian People's Party states that the county municipality should have an active and wide role as a development actor. It is noted that the development role should not be confined to managing regional and regional policy instruments. The Christian People's Party emphasises that competence, communication and culture are central to the field of work. The politically interesting thing is that the great government party Right does not share the Christian People's Party's view on this matter. I would therefore urge the representative Apelthun Seele to elaborate on the role the county council should play, and each division goes in the relationship between the Christian People's Party and the Right in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e488	I didn't think it was any secret that the Christian People's Party and Right are quite different in their party programs about the county's future. But we have the Sem Declaration in common, and the Sem Declaration states that the County Municipality should have a role as a development actor. The development role is, in my opinion, at stake. The comment mentioned by the representative Sandal came at the end of the discussion of this big city message. I was very much in agreement with what was said there, and decided there and then that this is what we're going to do. We hadn't had any discussions on it, because there wasn't any time left. We might have been wider if we had had more time. But in any case, the Christian People's Party is its primary policy, and we believe that we have taken care of that in the Sem Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e494	I'm sorry, because I can't put the strings together in what's being said by Apelthun Seele. She attaches great importance to the fact that the Christian People's Party and the Government have enormous faith in the big city politicians. My question is: Where in this message, and where in this setting does the Christian People's Party and the government parties express their belief in the big city politicians? Here it is added up to, and it is emphasized from the government parties, a stronger state governance towards the big cities. A conflict council or a coordination mechanism that the Government wishes to call it. I do not see that the government parties at all have great confidence in the big city politicians here, especially when we hear that the representative Apelthun Seele also emphasises the role of the county council in relation to regional development and overall authority towards the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e501	I don't know if I feel any particular responsibility for Sandberg not being able to gather the threads, because what permeates the entire big city message and the comments that the Christian People's Party and the government party have, is exactly true of the big cities. They shall be given greater freedom and more responsibility; they shall rule and be lords of their own houses. I'm tempted to ask Sandberg to re-read everything. But it is true that we know that there are countries between big cities as well, and we know that one must interact in the regions – which are more than the big cities – in order to maximise the benefits that big cities have and that the regions can have together. That's why we think the county councils or regions need to interact with the big cities in order to get the most out of the possibilities of small Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e508	Every time this government gives a message, and every time anyone from the Christian People's Party takes the floor, I wait for some of the things that are said to be Christian People's Party's heart matters, namely the fight against poverty. On the contrary, every single time it comes out pure right-wing policy. Bondevik has been in the last governments, except for a year with the Workers' Party, and poverty has increased all along. Differences are increasing all the time, and it seems that the Christian People's Party has bought the Right Party's policy that poverty is best combated by giving tax relief to the richest, so that it will rub a little down on the poor. I want to ask the representative Apelthun Seele, especially in connection with the notification of the big cities, where we know that the differences are most horrific: is it not at any point that the Christian People's Party sees that it would have been possible to distribute something more fairly between the poor and rich in Norway, and that perhaps one had achieved some of the things that should be Christian People's Party's heart matters, namely, to take care of the weakest?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e515	What's the biggest problem in terms of people becoming poor is unemployment. This government has done what it can to fight unemployment. We can't distribute the funds better than by fighting unemployment. It means an infinite amount of business environment. The Christian People's Party and the SV always disagree about it. The Christian People's Party has always meant that we must first create, and we can distribute. In a situation where 100,000 are unemployed, there is a match no. 1 to get the employment up. Then we have delivered the poverty package, where we have also focused on fighting poverty in areas that are not just related to unemployment. I'm always amazed, because the farthest thing that this is the world's worst country to live in. At the same time, it is indisputably established that Norway is the world's best country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e524	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e527	Based on the expectations the government tried to create in advance of the big city message, the message itself is startled with no perspective. The centre party believes that there is a clear need for a far more comprehensive debate on what measures are needed for more balanced regional development and on the role of big cities in that context than this message puts forward. A more thorough discussion of the scale and arrangements, of the infrastructure and local economy, of an offensive industrial policy in which the state is in favour of strengthening its comparative advantage for each region is absolutely necessary. A plan for a coordinated and balanced regional distribution of State involvement, including the relocation of state jobs from the capital, is absolutely necessary. The central party supports the proposal for a separate capital message. Furthermore, like the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we believe that there is a need for a separate action plan for the big cities. It is not a plan to centralise the individual city, but it is a possibility for a more social housing policy, to strengthen culture, for better integration, to put the search light on what police resources are needed, for better and easier access conditions and for jobs based on the merits of each region. Although the Storting, through its communication on the distribution of tasks for the longest time, has determined that the county should have the role of regional development operator and that it should strengthen, the municipal minister does not deny itself from time to time to doubt the very basis of the county. The committee setting emphatically states that it is the county that has been assigned the task of coordinating and managing regional development work. It has also been explicitly stated by the Labour Party, the Swedish Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party that the role of the county council should not be confined to managing the regional and regional policy instruments. Citation from setting: ‘If a strong business is to develop in the region, the development of competences, communications and culture is also of major importance. The county must therefore be responsible for and focus on a broad development policy in the regional development work.» There is a clear signal to the Government by allocating funds that the county gets funds according to the tasks they are intended to do in this area. Following the initiative of the Centre Party, a Joint Committee underlines the need for green lungs in urban areas. This applies to everything from open recreation areas, parcels and colonies to the further development of agriculture in urban areas, such as industry and environmental factors. I would like to ask the Council of State to note the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre's comments on the possibilities that the Government has with regard to the management of state-owned property. The size has given room to use the disposal instructions for sale below market prices to ensure that the metropolitan municipalities can afford useful land at an affordable price. St.meld. No 31 shows a striking difference between the Bondevik I government and the Bondevik II government when it comes to the social challenges of the big cities. The dithering message was submitted by the Bondevik I government. We see little traces of a softer workline, a more social housing policy, better public services, a more finmasked economic-social security network and a more fair tax system – which was the five strategies outlined for the fight for equalisation. It is sad to note that the metropolitan message also does not address its particular situation. 55 pst. the households of Oslo are now composed of one person. This must be achieved in terms of housing, taxation and taxation policy. In this area, one-person households are always well-suited with fine words, but zero follow-up otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e551	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e554	The working party and the Centre are very much in this setting. However, in many areas of this setting, the central part has a powerful language theme against the Government, among other things. they say that the message is hopeless, and it is little new. In addition, the Central Party states that the grossing up message is simply for differentiated industrial policy. That is to the extent that the Labour Party agrees. I still want to ask the representative Meltveit Kleppa to make this more concrete. Otherwise, the Workers' Party wants to develop the all-day ball. It is not least important for big cities, which have a large number of immigrant groups. Both kindergarten and school are important institutions for good language training for these children. My question is, why is the Center Party opposed to introducing the all-day ball?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e563	In terms of language usage, one might think that the Senter party had very high expectations for the government's big city announcement. We didn't, but we thought the Government itself had helped to create expectations, which in no way has been fulfilled. In relation to business policy, I am surprised if the Labour Party found there are many traces of good business policy in this message. We are surprised that the Government does not stress the need to strengthen the interaction between the different advantages of a region – and special advantages – and the research, development and education environments, for example. Who is. The message fits nicely into the line of Ansgar Gabrielsen's announcement, which has repeatedly stressed by the Minister of Industry that he does not have a tool in his box.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e568	Many want to live in the big city, and then the big city must be able to give all its inhabitants the opportunity for a good life. It presupposes attractive cities that meet and meet the needs of its inhabitants. The further development of our welfare society depends on the best management of our values. A well-functioning business is crucial, and it is precisely for this reason that the Right in Government has given emphasis to tight budgets and tax relief to business. And now the optimism is back, the interest rate is low and the rate is better. Nevertheless, in its comments, the Central Party states that the notification is out of the question of industrial policy strategies, and accuses the Government of not ‘permitting a single crown’. Does not the Centre Party consider the framework conditions of business to be significant and does not the Centre Party see the link between a well-functioning business and a continued well-being society? What, then, is the Central Party's alternative, other than just distributing public dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e573	The answer is yes, the center part sees the highest degree of coherence. Hence, our policy now follows two main lines. One is an offensive industrial policy, precisely to strengthen the areas where we're already good, and the other is more local welfare. We believe that the state could go much stronger with capital to secure the knowledge and skills that Norway has, to develop new jobs and to take care of the jobs that we have today. In this way, for example, Right-wing chairman of Rogaland, NHO Rogaland, corresponding to other regions, underlined a great need, and we are pleased to note that the Minister of Industry today in the newspapers announces that even he sees that business neutrality is not working.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e579	The Central Party shall have all the honour of having its own regional policy in every context. Also, in the context of the big city announcement, I would say that most of it is about district policy on the part of the Central Party. But they also meet themselves in the door, because in some areas the Centre Party points out how important it is to move out state jobs, and has intentions to move out 5,000 jobs over a five-year period, and in the next round the Centre Party is on the track and fronts the housing policy to put in place as many cheap homes as possible, so that you can attract labour to the big cities. It's kind of out of control. But my question to the Center Party in relation to differentiation and the third proposal of the Progress Party is: Does the Centre not see that some cities can have competence that is superior to the county and department, and that it can be differentiated so that some tasks can be transferred to the municipalities – large cities – from the county council?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e584	It is good that Per Sandberg again knows the Senterpartiet in connection with this message as well as that an offensive regional policy, a good urban policy, is also good district policy. That's where we want to be recognizable. I don't know much about the Progress Party, which is talking about their involvement in the social dimension, and so they can't be involved in and provide for multiples in this room for a proposal for an action plan for the big cities that would secure a better housing policy, more focus on culture, better integration, even more resources for the police, easier accessibility, etc. For the purposes of differentiation, we have supported a number of attempts, but there are some overarching tasks that are better suited to a larger area than to a larger city, for example. the continuing schoolings. That's where we saw our foot down.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e591	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e594	In an international sense, Norway has no major cities. We could say that some of our cities are larger than others. But our capital is different from any other city in an important area. The coastal party therefore makes sense to treat Oslo’s problems separately. Oslo today experiences a faster population change than in most other European cities. During the historically short period from 1975 to now, the presence of non-Western immigrants has increased explosively. The following numbers are mentioned in the notification submitted: 40 pst. by all non-Western immigrants live in Oslo. They make up 17 pst. by the population. 28 pst. the mother tongue of primary school students in Oslo is different from that of Norwegian. The proportion of children between six and 15 years of age with a non-Western background is 40-60 pst. in Oslo inner east and northeast of Groruddalen. For the rest of the Groruddalen and southeastern Oslo, the numbers are 20-40 pst. I remember something I've been told about a teacher who gave a long talk about Nansen. When the teacher finished the talk, one of the students came away and said, "Who was he, Hansen?" So these are our new countrymen. They don't even know who Nansen is. Oslo receives immigrants from both other parts of Norway and from the rest of the world. In other words, the general immigration policy pursued has a very special impact on the capital. Therefore, this context should be a central theme in the treatment of Oslo’s problems. What you should focus on in particular is to prevent the emergence of living conditions differences between immigrants and the Nordics. Such differences are evidence of a lack of integration and may provide a basis for a higher level of conflict in the urban community. Oslo received 85 300 new jobs between 1995 and 2000. In the last 30 years, the Oslo region has had 230,000 more inhabitants. The coastal party believes that this centralisation of jobs and population is harmful both to Oslo and to the rest of the country. The Oslo region suffers from pressure problems, while the districts experience delocalisation. The coastal party wishes to take the necessary measures to promote food growth in the districts and regional centres other than Oslo. At the same time, we will for example: by a general reduction in the employer’s tax, improve the situation of the business already existing in the capital. The coastal party wishes to slow down the huge overinvestment in office buildings in Oslo by introducing its own investment fee for new office buildings in the capital. It should also be possible, through a law of establishment, to prevent the construction of office buildings which would have adverse effects on the city. It is a scandal that so many office buildings in Oslo are available, while still planning new office palaces. The coastal party supports the proposal to spread more government jobs from Oslo to other regions around the country. As far as possible, this should happen without Oslo's state staff leaving the capital against their will. The Coastal Party is pleased that most Oslo parties want to protect Oslomarka. The Progress Party will have the expansion of Marka, and looks like the most district enemy party we have here in the country. The bigger the cities, the easier distance can emerge between citizens on the one hand and politicians and bureaucrats on the other. In order to strengthen local democracy in cities and especially in Oslo, it is important to have a city selection with real power. In Oslo, many of the new districts have over 40,000 inhabitants. It is a shame that such major urban areas are not chosen by direct elections. It's also a shame that the Oslo City Councils have so limited power to determine in local construction matters. All studies show that urban authorities would be more concerned with maintaining their local environment than is the case with the City Council. In this way, the metropolitan areas of Oslo will be able to help prevent the wild growth and the pressures in the city, for the benefit of both Oslo and the other cities and districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e620	‘By and land – hand in hand’ is an old and well-known saying that fits well in this debate too, because the big cities are dependent on rural areas, but rural areas are actually equally dependent on cities, and especially the big cities, such as the prime motor where work, education, cultural services – yes, mostly all that a smaller municipality cannot have. Therefore, the investment in the big cities must take place to a greater extent than it is today. Only in this way can we achieve robust regions and make use of the whole country. The Capital Region is special in this context. The Oslo region should not be just a big city for its region. In addition, the Oslo region will compete with the other metropolitan regions of our neighbouring countries and on the continent. It is also important for the whole country. Therefore, the Workers' Party is in favour of a separate Capital Message for the Government. In this region, over 1.2 million people live, and the region includes 46 municipalities and sprawls over four counties. At that time, it is alarming that the big city news ignores the whole problem that exists in this region. Normally, this should be the main challenge of this Communication. There is a need for plans to go beyond what is necessary. The Capital Communication shall review the governance conditions and coordination problems in and around Oslo. This applies not least to the road network, public transport and housing construction, to mention something. Over the past 30 years, the Oslo region has had the highest growth in the country, with 230,000 inhabitants. That's three times as much as for example. The Stavanger region that has had the second largest growth. Population projections of the Statistical Centre for the next 20 years indicate that this growth will continue. Therefore, a capital message is absolutely necessary. The metropolitan message provides a good description of the many challenges facing cities, but does not provide a prescription for the solutions to be put in place. This is the first time we have a big city message for treatment, and that's good. But then we can't just see that there are a number of challenges. Then we have to act, and it's urgent. This is why the Workers' Party is promoting a number of measures in its suspension, and therefore the Workers' Party will require a concrete action plan for all major cities. It is not the government parties and the Progress Party. We are sorry about that. One of the biggest problems in the capital region and in the other big cities today is that it is most difficult for people to get a sober home at an affordable price. The entire Committee agrees that the level of housing prices is largely determined by the relationship between housing supply and demand. A high level of new construction of dwellings is essential to mitigate the pressure on housing prices. The Right Party, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party believe the market is coming to an end. We both see that and we don't know that. When 46 m2 is sold for 2 million. kr in Oslo, that is all cause for concern. That is why the Labour Party will, among other things, building several non-commercial rental dwellings where the State pays a fixed grant increase in the new building through active use of the House Bank increased the housing aid for families with children and financial disadvantages to facilitate the upgrading of the urban population through the use of the State grant schemes for housing and environmental measures to municipalities that facilitate a particular housing construction; Only in this way will more dwellings be built and the price pressure will be reduced. Finally, a few words about multicultural Norway and integration, a very important area. Many of our new countrymen want to live in our big cities. This is why cities face a greater challenge in terms of integration. That's why we have to make it right. Big cities like Oslo would literally stop without the immigrants. The introduction programme, which will enter into force on 1 September, will make a good contribution gradually. But in addition, we need to develop organized language offerings for those who are already here and who cannot Norwegian. The working party will have free core time in kindergartens in residential areas with a large proportion of foreigners, to ensure that all children can Norwegian when they start school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e657	Half of the country's population lives in one of our six metropolitan regions. Until now, this half has been harmed by the lack of coordination of state policies and the fact that a large majority in this room have been anything but interested in discussing metropolitan policies, and will much rather discuss district policy. With this government, the country has finally received a comprehensive and forward-looking metropolitan policy. Cities, and especially big cities, have their own challenges and benefits. Cities are centres of capital, knowledge, creativity and innovation. Cities are unfortunately also overrepresented in terms of, for example: poverty, child and youth crime, environmental problems and social and economic differences. By recognising this, the Government is putting forward a policy that can further develop the advantages of the big cities and combat the problems. Equally full is the intention to facilitate development in one's own city and thus also to show local democracy confidence. That's exactly the opposite of the Workers' Party, with Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, adding up through their massive point list that they want to detail the big cities and the municipal sector with. All six metropolitan regions have had population growth of 20 pst in the last 30 years. or more. It makes it absolutely necessary to focus on housing policy. For the government parties it is important that everyone can dispose of a good dwelling in a good living environment and that as much as possible be able to own their own home. The pressure on the housing market in large cities requires inter alia: greater resources to maintain a dwelling and establish itself. With its policy, the government has better arranged for households with problems of establishment to buy their own housing, through, among other things. a pooling of the purchase loan and the establishment loan for the new start-up loan. It will also be assessed whether persons with major payment difficulties by the municipality can be granted up to 100 pst. financing and, where appropriate, whether the loan can be combined with housing allowances. Especially Oslo and Bergen have many homeless people compared to the national average. The big cities alone have approx. 70 pst. of the country's 6,200 homeless, but only 25 pst. by the population. In the housing announcement that was presented last Friday, the government is putting up an active and targeted strategy to prevent people from becoming homeless, and to quickly get an offer of permanent housing. A survey of the homeless is already under way, as the current figures are from 1997. Housing support is among the most accurate arrangements we have. This government deserves praise for strengthening the scheme with a total of 352 million in each of its state budget. kr. This has been done in the form of increased bumper roofs in the six major cities plus Drammen and Fredrikstad, price adjustment of the stencil for light and heat, removal of the funding requirement for families with children in the same housing and removal of the area requirement for families with children in municipally disposed dwellings. The resolution of the financing and area requirements has resulted in the provision of housing support to several families with a weak economy. Furthermore, the decoration of the land requirement can help municipalities to provide reasonable housing for the homeless and others with a weak economy. Further, several future changes in housing aid have been identified in the housing notification to further improve the scheme. This policy is certainly part of the fight against poverty. The districts depend on functioning cities and regional centres, in line with the fact that cities depend on their surrounding area. Larger municipalities are better able to carry out public and private service tasks than the small municipalities are. The major cities are also regional locomotives, and the Right will actively support those municipalities that want intermunicipal cooperation or municipal mergers. A good urban policy is to enable big cities to create their own future while at the same time making the same big cities responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e672	In the big city news that Stortinget is dealing with today, there seems to be something thin in terms of really good proposals that can contribute to a more active and more forward-looking metropolitan policy here in the country. In the treatment of the notification, the size has had a good chance of evading and stimulating long-term trends for major cities. The size could, for example: have followed the Progress Party and have chosen a more offensive line by allocating greater freedom and responsibility to major cities in tasks which should be decided by major cities. The Progress Party wants a more offensive metropolitan policy and will give major cities greater responsibility for their own everyday lives and urban development. As the Communication has now been finalised by the Committee and the Storting Group, it appears that the other parties have been more concerned with filling the report with comments on all policy fields that exist and can be dealt with within a metropolitan notification than with mentioning the actual challenges and the situation of the major cities. It is at all strange that there is so much space in the position to comment on the general economic policy, while for example it is. In general, the Progress Party promotes ideas about what a well-developed road network has to say for business and housing patterns in and around big cities. It might seem that the majority may find it somewhat uncomfortable to take a real stand on what better road networks actually mean for our big cities. We have a fairly well-functioning housing market throughout Norway today. There are well over 20 000 dwellings built this year, and demand is largely covered by an adequate offer. Of course, there are press areas in the big cities, where demand is greater than the offer, but no matter how Stortinget sets up housing policy, it will still be expensive to live in the centre of the big cities, not least for first-time settlers. We'll hardly be able to do anything about it at any time unless we politically decide on maximum prices per. square meters, but that's something we should definitely refrain from. There is little doubt that we need housing-social arrangements that make it easier for young and disadvantaged people to get into the housing market, but creating schemes that aim at giving everyone the opportunity to buy a million apartment in Oslo Centre is probably unattainable. But with a 20-30 minute journey out of Oslo Centre, the price level is close to halved. Young people's ability to establish themselves is, therefore, significantly improved. The same relationship also applies in the other major cities we have in Norway today. The further you get from the center, the lower the housing prices, and the easier it is to establish. Individual municipalities are well aware of the need for increased incentives for housing construction in the municipality. It is therefore important that municipalities themselves have the power to develop and choose areas where they see themselves best served by building dwellings. In this situation, it should be important to give major cities greater influence and broader instruments. At least what they do not need are state bureaucrats or county councils that are checking out their own land availability. In my view, the size could have chosen to give major cities greater opportunities to organise and be more active in their area, but this has unfortunately been chosen by the majority to lower priorities. The county municipality is still a cardiac child who is to be kept alive artificially with tasks that it strictly should never have had, while the big cities do not have any important and concrete tasks that they should obviously have had. Finally, I would like to say that I do not believe in a blatant contrast between the big cities and the surrounding districts. I hope it's the way one of our teams said it when the Progress Party had this big city message on internal consultation in the party: what's good for Stavanger is also good for Finnøy. And let me add: they certainly have that right in!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e689	I'll start with a confession. As everyone hears on the dialect, I'm not from town, but I'm very happy in cities. I may be especially happy in Oslo, which has been a part of my life ever since I was a little kid. I'm starting with this to say that I don't think there's any contradiction between a good urban policy and a good district policy. But I think there is a very sharp contrast between a strong policy of distribution and a less strong policy of distribution. I think we're about there at the heart of the problem. This metropolitan message is also about whether cities should have more to say in some tasks than other municipalities do. There is no doubt that large cities have the opportunity to solve a number of tasks and have some problems and challenges that other municipalities do not have. There's no doubt about it. But you get a problem if you give municipalities tasks on behalf of others when the municipalities do not have direct voting rights into the local government. And that's one of the reasons why we're holding on to the fact that it's the county councils that are going to be responsible for some direct tasks, because that's where people have the opportunity to submit their ballot. It's important. It's also important for cities to think that when you're big and strong and you're going to be a big brother, you don't always have to take the biggest candy first. I think that's one of the important things to think about for the cities. Whether it's Oslo or other big cities, they have to be aware that you have a surrounding area and a population also outside the cities that are initially proud of the cities, and that want to be part of the cities – just as I felt I was, even before. Then you have to turn around a little bit. I don't remember who said it, I think it was Signe Eye, that our cities are in a kind of continuous fight with other areas outside the country, i.e. big cities and growing regions elsewhere. That's absolutely right. That fight can feel pretty tough. At the same time, it is important that if you want to have support from all over the country in that fight, you have to make sure that there is a social glue between the city and the surrounding area. And it's a challenge that I want to give to the cities. I know it can be hard to balance this, but it's important. Then I want to repeat that the most important thing we heard at the hearings in connection with the big city announcement, which we have seen up through time, is that we need to put in place the tools that cities need more than other municipalities. And one is housing policy. If we strengthen housing policy, it'll be more like cities. That's where the problems are greatest, that's where the biggest differences are, and that's where people, for example. has the most trouble getting a roof over your head and being master of your own house. It should apply to a certain freedom also to people who do not have good advice. I think that should be an important principle. If we have a really good collective effort, there's no doubt that it'll come mostly to cities and between cities. It will be a huge advantage for urban policy to have a collective effort that is massive, modern and forward-looking. It'll solve a lot of the city's problems -- problems that make them work. If, in addition to that, we get a municipal economy that's good, it's going to be the most urban, too, because a lot of the municipal economy is going on a community grant per. person. So cities will have a substantial share of cookies if you increase the municipal economy by 2, 3 or 4 billion. That would mean that these cities have an opportunity to be masters of their own houses and address the problems that are. However, it will have to be said that a better distribution policy at the bottom means that the large economic resources that are also available in cities, all of which have been mentioned here today, are distributed a little more evenly, for example. have a working public service. It's very good for business. Getting a community economy that can make schools really good in cities and get a cultural life that thrives is great for business. And it's not like there's a contradiction between having a better distribution policy and having a business that can create something. Then you have to follow the money you have distributed to the richest people in this country and see if there have been any jobs there. Unfortunately, I think you'll see a little bit of it. Finally, the State must coordinate itself. Yes, it must. It has not been good for this government, nor has any other government been good for it – and there is a long way to go, but it will be very good for the cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e704	I'm glad we've got a big city message, not because the message itself is a groundbreaking work, but at least it gives the Storting the opportunity to do some reflections and think something more long-term in terms of developing our larger cities and urban regions. Not least, it is important because half of the country's population lives in these places, and that is probably all the reason why the Storting show with great clarity an interest in the conditions that are there. What you could say is that people thrive in cities, and then you shouldn't make descriptions other than that initially. But that they thrive doesn't mean that the areas are without problems. And talking about cities and talking about urban politics should not be seen as a anti-diversity initiative, but as an initiative that serves the whole country's interests. Talking about urban politics today is talking about urban politics in a different way than what we did 30 years ago. Cities are today far more an engine in the development of the whole country than was the case before, and as an engine they must also be taken into account. If we believe in a solidarity policy with the city and the country hand in hand, we must take care of what is peculiar and important for the big cities so that they are given both arms and opportunities for development. If we don't, we don't take this reality seriously, it won't be city and country hand in hand, but it'll be city and country man against man. Urbanisation itself is not a Norwegian phenomenon. It's an international phenomenon. We see it everywhere and with the same effects that we experience in the big cities here in the country. We see few successes, at least there is little talk of them, in this urban development. We see greater social insecurity; we see poverty; we see crime; drug abuse; environmental problems; housing policy in decline; ethnic conflicts and prostitution. But that's just one side of the big city's everyday life, because we also see the good life. And it's most people who get the good life, it's most people who face the diversity, most who benefit from culture, educational institutions, competences, research, knowledge-based industry and outdoors — yes, in some wealth. But it's not just a dance of roses. The reality of some is brutal and for others it is pleasant. And that's these two parts of the reality we're going to have in our head when we're going to think about the future of the big city and the possibilities of the big city as such, but also the importance of the big city for it to be the engine that the country needs. Having these two parts of big city politics in your head at the same time requires – no matter what you put the most emphasis on – money, not theoretical money, but real money. And if you formulate a long-term policy that should be something more than a 17th May speech or a random anniversary tribute to some big city, you have to turn up cash – cash. It costs to achieve the objectives to be formulated. I am very pleased that there is unanimity in the committee to present a capital announcement. It will be the first real lacmus test for the parties, because then you have to be concrete. Then you have to deliver goods. And then you also have to show the willingness to pay for what it will cost to bet on the capital. The capital in this context is the metropolitan region, the Oslo region, and it is large, it is referred to by other representatives here earlier. Then we will know this big thing about Oslo as the biggest crossroads of the country, both in terms of roads and in terms of public transport, not least in terms of regional public transport. We can say what we want about transport from Eastfold into Oslo, or from Westfold into Oslo, but if we don't solve the central Oslo problem, we won't solve the problems of public transport. We want to know Stortinget's opinion about the Groruddalen, which is a big city in the capital with 130 000 people – to what extent you want to be involved in solving the challenges that exist there, and make Groruddalen the beautiful Groruddalen valley. We want to know something about what the Storting will do with poverty. We want to know what the Storting will do with housing policy in the capital. We want to know what the Storting will do to multicultural Norway. That's a lot of challenges. But let me finally express one opinion: I am amazed – in this important debate – at the total absence of the Oslo press in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e717	When the government made the big city announcement, it was supposed to be a message that wasn't based on meeting all the sectoral goals, but it was supposed to be a general message related to a regional unit and the issue related to geographical areas, where there are many problems within, and one should try to put a new theme on the agenda, namely the question of how we deal with the big cities. That's why it's true that there aren't many individual measures that are detached and included in this message, that we're going to do that and that in the metropolitan area, because we have a number of large-scale messages that are related to the individual measures. Nor was it the purpose of this message that we should do so. We have had our own poverty message for treatment in the Stortinget, the Action Plan against Poverty. We have now delivered a housing message, and I understand that the debate has already started here, but there is ample opportunity to take the debate on instruments, etc. later. We come up with individual parts in terms of integration and a message about multicultural society. But we thought it was a dimension that was about geography, about coordination, and that was about understanding that big cities actually have a bigger premise and a bigger challenge in solving some tasks. I would like to say that I am a little sad about the debate today, because there are very few who have affected this main issue, but many have gone back to the action plan for what we are going to do with the various problems that big cities have, with the exception of, among other things. Karin Andersen, who included parts of this in his post, and several representatives from the government parties, who touched on some of this, and who may have understood some of the main point of delivering a big city message. And then you might disagree with what to place where, but they've given the acceptance that it's actually a dimension to discuss how much we're going to have of detailed control and discussion towards the big cities, and how much we're going to leave to them. When we started this work, we did it with the big cities. Many of the themes in the communication are, in fact, the big cities themselves that have put on the agenda. The regional development theme came up after a definition by major cities of the importance of regional development and their ability to participate in growth, perhaps in response to the fact that we should not just focus on the social challenges but focus on other things. The second theme that is clearly on the agenda of the big cities themselves is the lack of coordination between the state and the big cities. I am therefore very surprised at the angle and attitude the Progress Party has shown in this Chamber to what we are trying to do in terms of a coordination function. The main thing is to coordinate the state so that the big cities do not feel that they are sitting between many different levels and have to sort, and can actually experience completely contradictory demands that are facing the same area. It's not because we're going to have more government control, but it's to give big cities a bigger opportunity to find a solution where the state coordinates. One of our main problems is that countless law houses are adopted in this room. There are a lot of proposals from the Government, but many are also put forward here, which provide legal and regulatory frameworks that are managed by a bureaucracy and where the coordination function in the state is too poor, and the sum of these is that seeing one sector separately becomes unmanageable for those who are going to implement it. I therefore want to take a total distance from that image Per Sandberg has drawn from what the ambitions are for this. On the other hand, this is a desire from the big cities, their ambitions for it, and then you could say that it's going to be difficult to implement it. It's a form of mediation role and sorting role. And so it is that when it says the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, it is always the Minister of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs who has authority, so it is not the bureaucracy, but it is the politicians and the government who have to enforce it and finally coordinate it. It's just to strengthen the big cities and to make it easier. We have seen it in major urban development projects, we have seen it in other types of regional and development projects that the municipalities have had, that it has been difficult to achieve that coordination. So to the second question that we've raised, the question of problem differentiation. If nothing happens to Norwegian municipal structure, the ability to do something about social problems and create a good coherent strategy in cities will be worse if we don't also look at this with more problem differentiation and that you get more room for it. I am pleased that we have received feedback on this. It's not necessarily to move the tasks just from the county councils, but sometimes we have to see the relationship between drugs, child protection and the entire course of the institutions, and it should be a point that we could see this more clearly in the context. I think we're a step on the way with this message. But I'm a little sad that especially the country's largest party, the Workers' Party, has not managed to get out of the debate on the piece of action and look at this overall, and that they do not trust that the big city politicians themselves can actually develop their own cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e732	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e736	Sometimes it can be a problem that you don't see the forest for just trees, but sometimes it can also be a problem to try to get such a big picture that you don't see any of the things that make up the whole thing, which is crucial for which whole you're going to create. Governments say that attempts have been made to provide an overall message. I find that Højre's own City Councillor in Oslo has asked where the measures are, not just the analysis. I note that the Committee has received letters from the rapporteurs in the major cities where they are just calling for better coordination measures, including: on the area not covered by this notification. I note that there is a coordination instrument in the communication that has very few possibilities to get an overview of what actually means, because it is quite sharp at the edges. It is hardly a word in this communication about the coordination problems in the capital region, which are very large and very challenging. Does the Council of State believe that the communication is successful in relation to her desire to coordinate better?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e745	I believe the message is successful in relation to the fact that we have put the coordination issue on the agenda. If we had received a clear signal from Stortinget – and I believe that we have received it from a majority here – that it is just important, it would have allowed us to go further and actually coordinate. We are now working to build on the cooperation we have with the larger cities to develop a forum for the big cities, and to a greater extent could also go into concrete action and ask: how can such coordination work in different areas? Of course, in relation to spatial planning, the framework will always be the law. There, the Minister for the Environment will make changes and arrangements. But also in the social field and in other areas, it may be important to have coordinated mechanisms, not least since we are still going to have a two-fold distribution of drug care and child protection. There will still be a number of different disciplines where close cooperation is needed between the state and the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e757	The Council of State rejects the conclusions of the Progress Party in relation to the coordination proposed in the Communication. I will continue to claim, on behalf of the Progress Party, that this will in the long term be more a conflict council than a resolution body. But that's just going to show the future. My point and the point of the Progress Party is to point to the reason why we need to put in place a coordinating body. Why is that necessary? Yes, because the lack of local rights exists, among other things. the level and area issues and the zeal of the Government and the Storting, after controlling the major cities, provides ground for such coordination. The question from the Progress Party is: Isn't it better to strengthen the right to rule for the big cities and the capital, instead of building a new, bureaucratic body, a conflict council, to resolve more and more conflicts that come after?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e764	I agree that we should give more local authority. That is why we want to simplify planning and building legislation and thus give more local authority. But I don't think we'll be able to solve the sectorization problems with the state just by giving more local authority. It's e.g. a problem when dealing with such detail in Stortinget, for example. Transport plans, which have basically been made in Fauske — and elsewhere — through budgetary conciliation here. We can all go back and think about how far in detail we've gone when we've dealt with matters. No one here sits with a good conscience – I think – in terms of not having fallen to a slightly lower level than one should perhaps in order that there should be room for freedom for example. urban policy-makers to find solutions. I think it might be a recommendation for us all to keep us a little bit more back in relation to how far down in detail we go. I don't think it's possible to see that in areas where, for example. transport and urban development are colliding, common solutions need to be found.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e773	One of the main steps here is to coordinate the state's policies, and then one has to go to the heart of the ideology that governs the state's policies. The Authority’s investigation points out that ‘the State management system is transformed into market principles and formal exemption on the one hand, and new control bodies and supervision on the other’. Furthermore, «The uniform and market-oriented governance ideology has not provided a more coherent and coordinated governance system», and the Norwegian state appears to be «a more fragmented state». There is thus a total conflict with Government policy, which is more freedom and competition – as opposed to more coordination and cooperation. I think I see many signs of this in the exchange of letters between the Government and several municipalities on coordination, for example. in relation to SATS, where it is said that the modern principle of state-owned activity is that these agencies should govern most of this sea. Does the Council of State see the conflict between market principles and free movement on the one hand and cooperation and coordination on the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e782	I think there may be a conflict between liberation and coordination, just as I think there may be a conflict by not releasing and coordinating. The question is: what control signals do you give in the case of a stand-off, and how do you do that? I have stated a few times that I do not believe that everything that has happened to exemption in Norway – even if you have used the same concept as for example. the right has stood for – necessarily has been the implementation of our policies. It's like not enough to drop the detail management from Stortinget and appoint a former State Secretary from the country's largest party as the leader to necessarily release according to the right principles or modernise. It is very important that there are proper control signals. One of the important things about our government's modernisation programme is that we should delegate the possibility of taking decisions locally. At the moment more decision-making powers are delegated downwards, e.g.: in the social fields in which the State cooperates with the municipalities, there is a greater opportunity for local coordination. At the same time, this is a reason why we believe that municipalities should have more of the responsibility: the politicians who are closer to the processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e794	The power selection points to something similar to the power statement, namely that deregulation and reorganization have led to the centralisation of certain tasks. The Council of State has no emphasis on geography and coordination as important factors in urban policy and regional policy. I want to give the Council of State the opportunity to elaborate on how it looks at a strategy for a better regional distribution of government activities. Will the Council of State agree to a strategy that will increase the commitment to rural policy, strengthen infrastructure and increase regional power to achieve such a goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e799	It is true that deregulation and reorganisation lead to more centralisation. But then one has to ask the question: why does it happen? This happens, among other things: because technology makes things change significantly. We can use computer-based technology, for example. implement a simplified treatment of all people's declarations, which means that we don't need to have an equality office in each municipality. We need to have offices that have better skills and that have a different kind of competence than before, and they obviously have to work together in larger units. It's awfully easy to talk about such concepts without talking about what is the world of reality. Should we, for example, do this? had as many phone calls as we have today, with the technology in 1950, we had all been sitting and plotting telephone cables to handle it. It is clear that the type of jobs disappears at the moment technology evolves. I am in favour of a strategy for regional investment. But I'm assuming that we're not necessarily going to agree on what the content at that time is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e808	The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a capital message because the Capital Region is special. But after listening to the state council here today, it is clear that she still believes that there is no reason why we should have a separate capital message. The problems that lie here are to be dealt with in completely different ways than through a special message. But now it's like right-wing representatives at Stortinget are of a different opinion, and that's good. Now we get at least a majority to have a message. My question to the Council of State is therefore: does the Council of State continue to agree that the capital area does not have special challenges, both in relation to the East and in relation to the rest of the country, but also in relation to other metropolitan areas in the Nordic countries and in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e815	I have to say that I am a little surprised to get a line that assumes that I should have said something that I have not said anything about so far in the debate. One assumes that I have said that we do not need a capital message, but I have not yet stated the question at all. I think we could have had debates where the premises were rather to be open in relation to the questions. I see many reasons why we should focus specifically on the capital. I'm a little uncertain about what the premises are for why we're going to deliver a capital message. I feel that the premises for the Workers' Party are moving towards spatial planning. I would like to remind you that a NOU has been delivered that has a full review of this question. The answer cracks all the ways. Two governments before this government did nothing more about it, precisely because there was no clear answer. So it would have been quite possible for Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen to press on to get this to the Stortinget, when he himself was in government at that time. It's one of the themes. The second theme, which was also addressed by Bjørgov Froyn in his post, concerns many different areas and social issues, and about making great expectations of this. We're going to make a message where, in that case, we're going to talk to the Municipality of Oslo about how their definition of the main problems is. Then we have to take that as a starting point, and look at how we coordinate the state in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e825	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e828	President, can I have the floor for a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e835	No, not after a string exchange with five lines. Let's go back to the list of speakers. Tore Nordtun is given the opportunity to climb the pulpit, and get to hold for the whole 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e840	Thank you, President! I believe that this message addressed by the Stortinget today is a step in the right direction in terms of an effective and comprehensive metropolitan policy in Norway. In the context of a modern regional policy, this will have to be taken into account, with urban policies and prospects for the development and future of the major cities, in a number of areas that have been done in the past. I'd like to mention three observations that I think we can agree on. One is that these urban regions play a very important role in the settlement, not only for this big city, but also for the settlement and employment opportunities in the districts – in other words far beyond the city’s borders. The second point is that urban regions are also centres for a formidable value creation, they are centres for knowledge development, and they contribute to the development of a robust business life with international competitiveness as well. And we can't ignore the third point either. It is that in these cities we have the worst living conditions, not least for individuals and individuals. And a goal of geographical cohesion of living conditions in Norway requires a special investment in big cities if we are to achieve a cushioning and improvement policy that we can be proud of. I'll quote from the message: ‘The major cities and metropolitan regions are particularly vulnerable to the adverse consequences of the lack of coordination of government policies.’ This is a very important observation and an important point. The need for state coordination of state policies is reinforced in the metropolitan regions due to greater pressures and pressures on infrastructure, housing markets, social services and other conditions. This we must take in when we set up our budgets, when we decide the strategic appropriations, when we take our strategic decisions. One of the problems in urban development is the lack of coordination of planning, not least of land use in terms of transport and agricultural land. The new Plans Act must provide for the most comprehensive planning possible. In particular, there is a need for a new regime for planning in metropolitan regions. The metropolitan regions include several municipalities, not least in the area I come from, the Stavanger region, where we have many municipalities that are infiltrated into the same labour market, in the same housing market, in the same experience market, etc. However, models are needed in which municipalities and metropolitan regions can jointly arrive at and adopt a binding plan for the future shape of land use. As I see it, the Plan Committee has not found any good solution to just these questions. In my view, the proposal that the sub-plans should have a binding effect on land use is not entirely satisfactory. But I assume that the big cities will be able to play the role they are intended to play in regional development, both in their respective parts of the country and in Norway, by just systematically investing in big cities across a broad field, and in culture, in research and education, in innovation, in internationalisation, and in communication. If we don't have a broad commitment in all these areas and coordinate properly, the big cities will suffer for a long time to come. In other words, there is a call for a stronger willingness to address the proposals of the major cities to abolish the distinction between national cultural institutions and regional sub-institutions and to assume overall responsibility for the financing of the main cultural institutions in Norway. I have also missed the will to step up research efforts, both in relation to and outside universities and higher education institutions, in the metropolitan regions, as part of a Norwegian policy for innovation and increased competitiveness. Doing colleges, among other things, in Stavanger and Agder to universities will contribute very well in such a direction. Finally, I would also like to point out transport investments around the metropolitan regions, which can provide opportunities to maintain a scattered settlement, by involving municipalities on the outskirts in the labour market of major cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e867	I will be commended to the Municipal Committee for its proposal that we need a separate Capital Communication, and will also refer to the majority of the Committee, which points to further consideration of the specific challenges and opportunities of the entire Capital Region. The Council of State now said in the line exchange that it was important to talk to the Municipality of Oslo first and foremost, and that is good and good. But as others have stressed, a capital message must have a slightly larger perspective and not just stay within narrow municipal boundaries, but see the whole of Stor-Oslo in a context. When you read the comments in the settings, you can get the impression that some parties believe that positive development and growth for the metropolitan regions in general and the Oslo region in particular are to the detriment of District Norway. This is a big and serious misunderstanding, a misunderstanding that unfortunately has cost taxpayers billions of dollars over many years, and unfortunately has not been shown to prevent either the relocation or the closure of jobs in exposed districts. The Capital Region is an engine for national development in very many ways, not just a hub and a meeting place, but a particularly important region for research and development and innovative industrial development. A quick look at the source of tax revenue in Norway also clearly shows that Oslo and Akershus are important – not to say decisively – for good welfare services throughout Norway. However, in order to be the necessary national engine and an attractive region for Norwegian as well as foreign companies, something more than a repatriated country is required without willingness to make the necessary priorities. The centre party and SV point out in their comments an opinion of the Executive Director of Oslo Teknopol, Knut Halvorsen, which indicates that infrastructure development in the Oslo region does not keep pace with the growth of the region. And here we are at one of the core problems: today's policy, in addition to the policy that has been pursued for many years, unfortunately contributes to a slow suffocation of the Great Oslo. In this house, with few exceptions, there has been no willingness to ensure that road capacity in this region rises to an acceptable level. Lack of infrastructure development in the Oslo region is not an isolated problem for those living here, but equally a national problem. The industry in the districts needs a road system to get the goods to customers, whether they are in Norway or abroad. Therefore, the truth is that what is good for the Oslo region is good for Norway. Another example where the Oslo region loses is in the fight for public seed resources. The central eastern region must not participate in the new cereal funds, and the potential for growth in new innovative enterprises, such as small and medium-sized enterprises. thus considerably reduced in relation to existing research environments in Oslo and Akershus. Here we are witnessing a policy that actively undermines business start-ups in Oslo and Akershus. The Capital Region — and its positive development — must become a national priority task. As a country on the outskirts of Europe geographically, it is important to pool the resources needed to create regions that can also be attractive internationally. We see that this has happened in other European countries, for example. in Ireland. Government parties are strongly attached to good general conditions, and that is good and good. However, if we are not willing to prioritise our national engine separately, we do not get an Oslo region that can be the necessary vitamin injection for nutritional development throughout Norway. Even more wrong is it when you think, as you do from the centre party and part SV, that the districts can only be strengthened by weakening the big cities and, in particular, Oslo, by both forcing jobs and actively preventing further growth. Those who believe this is a matter of allocating resources and jobs between cities and districts in Norway are siding with reality. Today's industrial policy and regional policy must be about creating conditions for growth in an internationalised world, where the struggle is not between Ørsta and Oslo, but between Norway and London. If we lose that fight, we will in the long term also undermine the possibility of well-being and good living conditions throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e884	Major cities play a special role in national value creation, among others. as a result of its function as a centre of competence. Major cities also have a specific role to play in providing a wide and specialised welfare, service and cultural provision. The question is whether metropolitan cities are better able to carry out these tasks as part of this message. I hope so, but I'm skeptical – I don't believe it. The government says that one of the objectives of urban policy is: ‘Give all equivalent opportunities to live the good life of the big city through social and economic well-being and a working day in security’.» I wrote that down. There are many old, young and middle - aged people who want to live in the cities. Let them live there, let them live there, let them live the good life, but then the state can't coerce the big cities. I also believe that there is a need to change the criteria for transferring funds to big cities, and that requires concrete action. It's in the big cities we have some of the biggest social challenges. This is due to problems related to both alcohol and psychiatry, and to the integration of refugees and immigrants. These are tasks that big cities need to have resources to meet. The Labour Party believes that the focus must now be on housing policy, cultural provision, integration, crime prevention, workplaces and transport problems. The government describes these challenges, but does not do enough with them. If everyone is to have equivalent opportunities, there must be more and cheaper housing and rental facilities in the cities, and the state must participate. In my opinion, it is entirely unmistakable – and not desirable either – that everyone should be able to own their own dwelling. That Right and Erna Solberg want such a policy, is not surprising, but I'm more surprised that the Christian People's Party is involved in this pitch and run-up. The mountain, in Hordaland, is the big city I know best. There are 460,000 people in all of Hordaland. Half of these cages in Bergen, and 60,000 to 70,000 in addition to these, have less than an hour's journey from Bergen, so that over two thirds of the people live in the nearby area. It is clear that this region has a common labour market and that very many cultural services in Bergen are also available to the regions around it. It is quite necessary to point out that investment within and around urban areas can be an opportunity to maintain bus services in municipalities around and to involve them in their labour markets. We have to look at the region as a whole as a community. Then a cooperation is needed, then a concrete action is needed – and that is absolutely necessary. I believe in local self-government. The cities and the capital have also developed before this message came. We need to take concrete decisions that can enable the big cities to achieve the equivalence of the supply they want from the government. Housing policy is, in fact, the most important thing if you are going to think about bridging differences between peoples, cushioning poverty problems, which in our country is the largest in the big cities. Then there is a need for concrete action, and this message points out very little. She describes the situation very well, and then we're told that it's in the budgetary context that we're going to come back to concrete measures, and I look forward to that, because it's absolutely necessary if we're going to be able to say that everyone is going to live the good life in the cities, where most people in the country actually want to live. They will then have to improve the chances in the big cities of implementing these measures, and it is absolutely necessary to be concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e908	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e911	First, with a heart attack, I have to say that most of the issues in the big city announcement have been on the political agenda for at least 20 years – so far without significant results. The most important thing that has come out of the discussion of the big city announcement by the Municipal Committee — and it is to be truly commended to them — is that today a decision is taken by the Stortinget asking the Government to present its own capital message. We need a message that addresses the capital, but also the tasks, challenges and resources of the Capital Region today and in future Norway. It is also an organisation in the Oslo region, with its numerous and different regulatory regimes in the many municipalities, its fragmented land and economic development, despite the fact that we have one transport area, one labour force area and one economic area. Last night I got a good example of the need for overall coordination in the capital region. People at a meeting in the Alna area in Groruddalen asked to reduce the speed of E6 through the valley, the roaring traffic machine that split Norway's most populous valley into two. But those who live in North Akershus will get to Oslo Center as soon as possible. A Capital Communication must take the environmental problems of the Groruddalen seriously, promote concrete proposals and provide funding for them. It is state institutions that have been the main contributors to the grubbing-up of the Groruddalen for decades. Here it does not help with pleasant comments – here it really needs action, and we are waiting for that. The labour market situation requires an active industrial policy, based on an interaction between state and municipal measures, based on regional advantage. The Capital Region has very special assumptions — and in fact also a very special responsibility, in my opinion — to develop industry based on knowledge. We have approx. 50 pst. of the country's knowledge environments. Here companies also find a comprehensive network of subcontractors and services. Here is proximity to markets, port and airport. The technology-based industry currently accounts for approx. 13 pst. by the Norwegian industry, while the figures for Sweden and Finland are 48 pst. and 51 pst. In order to create a positive economic development and bring about dynamism and innovation, we also need to invest in knowledge-based industry. But then the state authorities must understand that we must have a government instrument that also strengthens the establishment of Oslo and other metropolitan regions. It is again about the willingness to spend money in these regions as well, and it includes the new seed resources, which were also mentioned by a previous speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e924	It is important and right that problems, challenges and living conditions in metropolitan regions are put on the agenda, as in this Communication and this debate. There is no doubt that the largest cities and neighbouring municipalities have both social problems related to drug use and crime, environmental problems related to pollution of different kinds, and, in addition, lack of reasonable housing, to mention something. At the same time, we should not forget the positive elements, for example. that in sensible land-use planning, most of our major cities are surrounded by areas with great recreational potential, which we hardly find in such proximity to population concentrations in other countries. It is an explicit policy that new public oversight, directorates and other institutions not required to be in the capital are established in other parts of the country in order not to put further pressure on the capital and to give other regions pleasure in building skills in such areas. This is good and good, but we must not forget that the establishment of such supervision and public offices in Eastfold, Buskerud, Westfold and Telemark also leads to further traffic towards the capital. It is beyond doubt that the disadvantages for people along the E18 Mosseweg and near the E18 between Oslo and Asker and along the E6 through the Groruddalen are high due to cows, exhaust gases and extremely high traffic density. Existing plans to establish new eco-friendly trajectories for these transport years, in the first row of E18, should be pursued, while significantly improving collective services in these regions. With a substantial proportion of the population of Norway in these areas, prioritying these projects is both environmentally sound and profitable. This is also important for businesses throughout the country to be able to produce their products. Today, metropolitan regions are struggling with both these problems and the economy. The lack of proximity that often characterises a busy metropolis, makes many people feel a lack of contact and established networks that are particularly difficult. These are challenges that should focus on further work. There is reason to enjoy the pilot schemes under way to test out reorganisation, new ways of solving tasks, etc., and to focus on planning development projects to take account of environmental factors. The government has in St.meld. No 31 for 2002-2003 points to a number of solutions. Let's hope we can gradually see the contours of an efficient, environmentally friendly and social metropolitan region within the economic framework we have in the years to come. It requires good cooperation between government and population growth, on the one hand, and local politicians in our metropolitan areas, on the other, in order to identify the necessary measures. It will require a great deal of willingness for open dialogue in further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e940	It is very good to read in the settings of this big message, but I would like to point out in particular the possibilities one has to create exciting jobs in the big cities and their surroundings. We point to the importance of providing closer interaction between universities and colleges, research environments and enterprises and the industrial development environment in these areas. I want to start with Oslo and Akershus. In order for you to look at Oslo, you also have to bring what we call the Oslo region. The Industry Committee has just spent two days visiting exciting research and business environments in Oslo and Akershus. During this visit, Vice-Chancellor Torger Reve pointed out at BI the opportunities offered by enhanced and active cooperation between the education and research communities and the business community in Oslo and Akershus. We have the University of Oslo, BI – located in Sandvika, but to move to Oslo – University of Akershus, IT Fornebu, Campus Kjeller AS, Bioparken in Ås, to mention some of the exciting opportunities for development in the Oslo-Akershus area. In addition, major hospitals in the region are also an inspiration for research and development. These environments need to be nurtured and inspired, and they need to be given the opportunity to seek state research and development funding. Although it is the Minister of Industry's table, I would like to point out the importance that the Government is now taking seriously the opportunities that lie, among other things. in the Oslo region, and the re-introduction of funds to seed funds, which also embrace the large cities. The Oslo region has a high level of knowledge capital but is nevertheless lowly represented in terms of research and innovation, compared to other countries in Europe. There is too little contact between the authorities and the research communities. There is little interaction between these environments and the public and business sectors. There are a number of forums and advice to organise cooperation between municipalities and regions in the county. Only in Akershus do we have four such forums and advice for business development: the Follow-up Council, the Cooperation Council of Lower Rome, the Upper Rome-rich Development and the Western Region. In the past, Oslo Municipality was completely absent from this cooperation, but this has fortunately changed, after pressure from people in the environment. But there are also other big cities in the area. The western region of Akershus, to which I belong, also sees great benefit in looking towards Buskerud. In the Western region, Bærum, Drammen, Hurum, Lier, Lower Eiker and Røken are included, as are Asker. Fortunately, cooperation has also been seen in Oslo and Akershus. Oslo Teknupol, a company developed in the Municipality of Oslo and Akershu County, is looking at the development of business. They say that they should contribute to the contact and interaction between research and development environments and businesses, that they should market the region internationally, which is very important, and that they should also facilitate information in the business world via the Internet. The state must also be involved and contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e955	During the debate, there are many topics that have been addressed, but there are also some questions that have not been answered. I got a question from the Labour Party that I'm going to answer quite briefly. I was asked why the Center Party is not for the whole day's ball. Let me just say that we want to strengthen the contents of the school, give several hours to today's teaching, because we think it's necessary. We believe that SFO should be voluntary and design locally. Then the Right Center Party made a visit to the lack of faith in local self-government. I am very pleased that the entire committee says that it is important that the big cities are given sufficient economic resources to solve their problems. Then there is a plurality, which includes both the Right and the Centre, which says that increasing the use of framework funding can contribute to greater local self-government, but we also say that it ‘presites consistency between tasks and resources’. I take for granted that the Right follows it up. So for government activity and a need for greater coordination. The choice of power now clearly shows that it is fooling itself to believe that the relocation of 900 annual works from Oslo has contributed to so much more coordination and decentralisation of government activity. In the 1990s, there was a centralisation to the Oslo area. It shows the effect selection. The number of annual work went down in small towns and districts. It's increasing by 7 pst. in the central part of the country, but with 15 pst. in the Oslo region. In 2000, the capital region had 45 pst. of the annual work of state nuclear power. This is explained by both technological changes, reorganisation and deregulation. From that point of view, we believe that there is a need for an involvement, not as SV says, a relocation of jobs in the cabin and the weather, but an assessment of how one with state activity can contribute to a more balanced regional development. Then we thought it important to look at a plan when it concerns the establishment of a new state enterprise, but actually also a better distribution of the business we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e969	It's rarely the Stortinget focuses on the capital and the big cities. This debate is therefore important. In particular, it is gratifying that a unanimous committee has joined the proposal to ask the Government to present a major report on the metropolitan region. It citizens for the opportunities to further focus on the peculiarities of Oslo, both as a big city and as a capital. I hope that this unanimity can be interpreted to mean that the Stortinget has come to recognize that Oslo is in a special position, also in relation to the other big cities. From time to time in celebrations and in ideal planning documents, the importance of the big cities is referred to, and they are often described as motors of economic development. But we who represent the big cities, and who are also trying to take care of the big city's interests daily, get right as it is, backwards in the meeting with the concrete priorities that this hall does, because in the day-to-day world, the big city's representatives come to a minority when resources are to be allocated. We experience it in a concrete way when money is allocated to transportation. We have major discussions on tunnel development in the Oslo and Oslo areas, while tunnels in the West and North Norway are defined as necessary. We experienced the lack of understanding of the tasks of the capital when the majority of the population, across the parties, decided to move out state jobs from Oslo, despite their economic importance to Oslo and to the country as a whole. And we experience that SND funds are prioritised away from the big cities and Oslo, despite the innovative industrial potential that lies in the cities. I'm not drawing this forward to be angry or negative on a party day like this, but I'm going to remind you of everyday practice when so many people have expressed their understanding and willingness for a big cities policy. I therefore hope that we from the big cities in the future will experience the positiveness expressed here today, also in everyday life, when real resources are to be allocated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e978	A unanimous committee has asked the Government to present its own capital message. That might make sense. Oslo has a special role, which many people have had, both because the city is the capital, because it and the region are much larger than the others, and because Oslo is both the county and the municipality. Therefore, the notification should, for example: discuss how to build under Oslo as a capital. I was a little worried when I read in the notes that the majority, all except the government parties, are calling for an assessment of Oslo's future as the capital. I thought we had a capital, and that Oslo would still be the capital. But I'm a little worried when the majority wants to assess this capital function, and I'm asking, not least, my co-representatives from Oslo to explain whether they would be willing to move the capital from Oslo. We should consider adding more tasks and roles to Oslo and its surroundings. We should go on with task differentiation. We have different needs, and it requires different solutions. Bjørgov Froyn pointed out that Oslo was Norway's biggest junction and should be concerned with the notification. We should also consider the importance of the capital for the position of Norway internationally and as an engine for the entire eastern region. If Oslo is to be a good capital for the city's inhabitants and for the rest of the country, we must give the city space for action and freedom. We have to give diversity good growth conditions. Therefore, it would not make sense if the Capital Communication became an action plan for Oslo, to be adopted by the Stortinget. There I think maybe some people have gone a little far in their wishes. I'm glad it's not a majority to make key action plans for the big cities. The working party and the SV want it. They say, on the one hand, that metropolitan regions themselves must draw up urban development objectives and be responsible for their implementation. But on the other hand, they say that we should have this action plan, and then suddenly we should not take responsibility. Then you have to have government action plans. I have to ask if we who are sitting in this room really believe that we know so much better than our metropolitan politicians what is best for the population in their areas. My answer is no. What we need is a big deal that takes local politicians seriously and makes sure they have sufficient room for action. For example, Oslo does not need any state directive on cooperation in the region. A year ago, such an initiative was taken. The Oslo region was established – a cooperation between 46 municipalities, where land and transport planning, industrial development and international marketing are central. What you need is no more, but less government control. Although population growth and increased mobility exert pressure on areas and require flexibility – and this flexibility is only freedom that can give – we therefore need more freedom of action, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e989	The size of the store is at least not relevant to move.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e992	That's what the President said!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e999	If you're going to move the capital, I'm going to point out Fredrikstad as a good alternative! There is one policy objective that often remains in the Storting settings: it is an overall objective to ensure an equivalent welfare provision for all citizens. The sentence is most commonly used in district policy contexts. When we find the wording again in this setting, it's an important recognition that it's in the big, but also in the smaller, cities that we're far from this goal. If this important objective is to be achieved, the key is to provide cities with economic space for action as well as better consistency between income and tasks than today. Therefore, the current review of the income system will be the most important follow-up to this notification. The results obtained will be crucial for success, both in welfare policy and in urban policy. Words and objectives must be followed up with action, both in the income system and in the other areas pointed to in the adjustment. The broad opening up of a good rural policy has been important and correct. No one will be served with the impoverishment of the districts. At the same time, we must recognise that districts also depend on the importance of cities in economic, social and cultural terms. When people move from more pig-grown strokes to cities, they no longer move from leisure and poor welfare offers. It shifts to greater choice, more diverse cultural services and often less developed welfare services. More and more people want an urban lifestyle. That policy must take over. We can no longer regard urban life as a regrettable misunderstanding we are forced into, a bad alternative to life where self-storage is alpha and omega. Once the government has restricted major cities to regional centres, the perspective becomes too narrow. I am pleased that the Committee in its position also points to the same challenges posed by popular urban areas such as Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg and Drammen. But also other cities – such as Moss, Halden, Skien, Tønsberg and Porsgrund – have many of the same challenges, both in terms of providing their inhabitants with sufficient of the welfare services that this house has promised, and in terms of law, that its inhabitants should have. If these challenges are to be solved, we need to have an income system that does not ignore the huge gap between tasks and incomes in these cities as well. In addition, cities in the east face a challenge because they are in the gravity of the capital. Therefore, the challenges of these cities need to be discussed in the light of this, and it should be addressed to the Capital Communication requested by the Committee. In addition to this, I would like to highlight the need for a solution to traffic in urban areas. It is absolutely necessary to find better and faster solutions than in the perspectives we have now. This is particularly true in the Oslo area, where there is a need for rapid and strong upgrading of the railway. Traffic cooling problems are everyday problems affecting most people in this area. At the beginning of the 1980s, the objective was double to Halden by the turn of the century. It has not yet reached Moss. The flight bet shows that it's useful. Now we have to get an equally rapid improvement in rail capacity in Oslo and the entire eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1020	I find it strange that the Right Party, and also the Workers' Party, are no longer more open to looking at a freer tax as an opportunity for cities to use their own resources. It would be important, precisely because in cities you have a lot of resources, as it's pointed out. It's not just bad and difficult in cities; there's also a lot of resources there. Why do you not want to give the people of cities and politicians the opportunity to decide whether they want a tax-free policy, or whether they want a tax-free policy, for example? will have better well-being and public transport? It seems that SV had been tricked. It had given the politicians and the people of cities a great deal of freedom and trust. So to this with the state and coordination: I think parts of what the Council of State said might suggest that the state should still have the freedom to crack in all directions in its proceedings. That's the problem. When we talk about local freedom, it must be about local democracy's ability to make different choices. Then it must be that the state has some overarching leadership in its policy areas that are to be governed, but within it the various agencies of the state must be in charge of that geographical area. And whether it's a city or it's a municipality, they should be able to participate in the premises that are there. Now like the state is given the freedom to crack in all directions, and a little on their own premises. I would like to quote from a letter from the Ministry of Labour and Administration sent to the municipality of Arendal, which goes to SATS. It says: ‘Delegation and decentralisation of powers are key principles for the government’s modernisation of administration. In line with this, the type of decisions that this is about is – i.e. whether the floors should be co-located or not – ‘added to the floors. There would be a clear violation of these principles if the ministries were to intervene directly in this type of localisation issue.’ This is a very good example of the fact that the government has said that cooperation is needed here, but then the government has made a policy that says that this can allow the states to decide the sea. It's a problem. It's also a problem if you don't have a mission in the state budget to take full responsibility for society, but you get a mission that says: run sectoral policies and look after your own budgets, or else you can do what you want. Many local politicians may feel that this is how the state behaves in many areas. I think it is important that the Council of State now clarifies whether she believes that the various agencies of the state should be allowed to burst in all directions at their discretion, on the basis of the principle that the most important thing in a modern state is that the states determine seas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1034	Some speakers from the Right have given the impression that an action plan for the major cities should be a detailed management of what is going to happen in the big cities. Of course not. Providing more mortgages, providing better financing for youth rentals, providing better housing support, offering better language provision, and ensuring the financing of the district theatre, do not involve detailed management of major cities, but it means that large cities are given better room to carry out their production and, with it, have a greater capacity to act as a development centre in their area. Then there has been a question about the capital message. Is it supposed to be an action plan for Oslo? No, it shouldn't. There are different premises for the different parties, and I record that the government parties do not actually have the premise that they finally agreed to have such a message. But as full as possible, it points out, among other things. on the part of the Workers' Party, the SVs and the Centre Party, that there are obvious coordination challenges in the Capital Region. There are coordination challenges related to land disposal, as the Council of State also pointed out. There are coordination challenges related to housing, where local communities around Oslo do not have, we should say, an urgent desire to get more housing because of the challenges it brings, and the costs it brings. There is a clear need to coordinate public transport, so that you don't stand at a stop and wait for the next bus that's going to the exact same place, because there are other customers of the collective service. These are issues that need to be discussed through how better coordination and a better whole of the overall provision in the capital region can be achieved. The working party has addressed this type of issue in a previous big city survey. When the Council of State asks why not the previous Labour Party government has taken this up, I have to be allowed to show that unfortunately we did not get so far that we received a big city message. However, when a metropolitan notification is presented, it is striking that this type of coordination challenge is scarcely mentioned if it is mentioned at all. I therefore find reason to point out that when the Council of State says that she has to coordinate this with the Municipality of Oslo, it becomes too narrow. This is precisely the challenge of looking at how a single metropolitan region works in the best possible way. It is then that the contact and challenges in the region as a whole, and not in the individual municipalities, are the most crucial. I therefore assume that the Council of State is looking closely at the premises contained in the comments of the majority of the Committee, and that she is helping to highlight the coordination challenges that lie there, and that, naturally, the whole of the region is being involved in those assessments, and not just the Municipality of Oslo in isolation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1043	For the first time, we've been given a big-city message that discusses big-town policy in its full scope and provides a holistic urban policy that will give all equal opportunities to have a good life in the big city. The urban policy is based on cooperation and dialogue between the cities and the state. The Christian People's Party wants freedom of action for the big cities and for the other municipalities. Strengthening local democracy and increasing municipal freedom of action are overarching goals for the Christian People's Party. Central politicians are not required to provide detailed governance, but to provide a good framework for policy-makers in the big cities to take responsibility for their own city and for their urban development. Unlike what speakers from the Labour Party have said earlier today, in the Christian People's Party, we will make provision for local politicians to take the final decisions. We want to give the big cities greater responsibility and greater freedom. We believe that local politicians are best placed to assess the scale of the problems and to give priority to the measures needed. We believe that challenges require different solutions, depending on local circumstances. Cities must take responsibility and create visions for their development. State should be involved in realization, not in detail management. Therefore, the metropolitan message should not be a detailed guide to local policy. It is probably important to ensure the balance between the city and the region around it. There is no contradiction between good urban policy and good rural policy. Major urban politicians are facing an exciting future if they take on the challenges and responsibilities that are now being given through more tasks and less detailed legislation. But the big city doesn't have to be itself enough. Close and constructive cooperation both with surrounding municipalities and, not least, with the county council is necessary to be closed down in the development of a strong city in a strong region. There are big differences between cities. It is therefore very alarming when the Labour Party proposes detailed common solutions for all major cities. This is a central detail management we don't want to be in. The Christian People's Party points out that local politicians should focus on infrastructure, environmentally sound urban development, industrial development, growing conditions, the provision of elderly people and on disabled people and cultural services. Central politicians are responsible for simplifying legislation and providing financial framework transfers adapted to local circumstances. Poverty is a big city phenomenon. There are many people with drug problems and psychiatric problems in the big cities. Therefore, it is important that we take an extra thank you for them, as this government has suggested, and through the treatment of the metropolitan message we get tools to influence and get a proper development in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1056	I thought I'd take Erna Solberg on the floor and go over from talking about the things that are closest to my heart, to some of the things that Erna Solberg wanted us to discuss here today. The big city message was a very all right summary when it came, first of all of how the state was compared to a lot of things around the big cities' situation, the metropolitan regions. It was in itself also a good frame-up of some of the things that the government had set in motion, largely with a total staggering behind it in very many of the areas. But it wasn't so much new there, and that's what's a little bit of a reason why there's not so much fun in the discussion as it could have been, if we had discussed a lot of other things. What was of new things when the big city message came last year, in the summer it was well, there were a few changes in the income system, which also came into the municipal proposition, and which went on a smaller designation of grants. Now it is said that most of the money was a grant to kindergartens, which the government later decided not to include as part of the framework grant, and then there was money for alcohol and psychiatry, which was decided by the Storting before Christmas. In any case, the money that was finally involved in relation to the income system and transfers was peanuts in relation to the big discussion about the size of the framework of the local government sector, as it was at the end. The second point that was taken up was relative to the task differentiation. The biggest and most important part was Rusreform II. The government agreed that this was initially going to the municipalities, but turned around and ended up going for a government arrangement. And one of the things that I think is strange -- there's no surprise for people in the hall and those who come along with it -- is that both the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre were because Oslo should at least be released and allowed to have the primary responsibility for this, which we didn't get. I find it strange that the government has not joined the comments submitted by SV here – and I would like to challenge the Council of State on this – as to why not the big cities that applied for permission to take over the drug problems that are currently with the state can get a new treatment of their application now. The last thing is the coordination of state policy towards big cities, and here it is, as it is possible to read in the position, so that the majority is not quite able to grasp the nature of this coordination. The centre party and SV have some common proposals in relation to strengthening the county's ability to commit the state in this area, but this last point, on which there is now a real disagreement, is therefore the only remaining one.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1067	The President will appreciate the fact that the Council of State is referred to by title at least here in the Chamber, so you get to do what you want.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1070	I take the floor one more time to focus on an area where Oslo is in a special position, and this is an area that is far too serious to be referred to by the Council of State as a sectoral policy. At a meeting the other day, I got the following question: How do you think it is to go out into society and apply for a diploma saying that you have Norwegian as a second language? In other words, what do we do with children when we put something like this on their diploma? In Oslo School, around 125 languages are practiced. Many of those who have a primary language other than Norwegian have Norwegian as their second language. For all the kids who go here, they're going to be functioning in the Norwegian community, in the Oslo community. They must be able to master Norwegian language, they must understand abstract concepts, they must master the galloping technology development of the knowledge society. When I asked the Minister for Children's and Family Affairs a question about leisure clubs at Søndre Nordstrand on 22 October last year, I noticed that part of the Council's response that referred to self-help from the municipality as a prerequisite for getting large-scale urban action or project funding for young people. This is a part of the city where at least 58 languages are spoken, and I would like to take this opportunity to stress that the integration and prevention of youth work in such parts of Oslo is too important for Oslo's poor economy to control it. Increased government efforts are needed to ensure that the least possible port is on the inclined plane, and it is not enough to hope that the municipalities of Oslo will give priority to triggering State aid schemes. Important offers for children and young people in multicultural urban areas must not be affected by poor local economy and should not be tapped in the battle for the budget crowns in Oslo. The scale of multicultural challenges in the capital must also lead to the recognition of overall State responsibility. Now I'm not saying everything is black, on the contrary. And the same town, Søndre Nordstrand, has long succeeded in developing an environment that is multicultural, where not least children and young people work well together. I would nevertheless stress that the free kindergarten for 4- and 5-year-olds might have been a matter in this part of the city as well. In the inner east of Oslo, there has been a cooperation project to offer free of charge short-term kindergartens. This offer was funded by the so-called action programme for Oslo inner East. Now it's over. However, Oslo Municipality has decided to continue financing such an offer in Old Oslo. However, this should include several urban areas. Finally, let me underline that, among other things. Uppøen Hansen said about the necessity of all day school just for this group I've been talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1090	It is correct, as the representative Heikki Holmås said, that more of the things that have been included in the message have actually been clarified at various magnifications, precisely because we think action is more important than action plans. That's why we're doing things instead of making new plans for it, and we're doing things in the different sectors where the big city issues are. Then you can also ask questions about why – if there was nothing in this communication that was important, as some have said – ten months were spent in the Storting to treat it. One could have been in the forefront and put forward a uniform discussion on task differentiation before the Stortinget took a decision on, for example, Russreform II, as progress was made. I think it's pretty important to see that you need a general discussion about such principles to establish the very idea. So that's how I see it, for example. no reason for Oslo to be different in that area than the other major long-term cities. First, if you want to return tasks of that kind, it is equally likely that both Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger should have the same type of tasks. What I think is the saddest thing about Rusreform II is that – because the small municipalities in Norway said they thought it was hard to imagine, because you can't buy services from each other – to find solutions chose to place everything in the state. I think it's just showing the dilemma that arises in the problem differentiation context. What became the problem was the choice between two completely different laws if they were to be included in social protection or in health legislation. It actually took a job if you were to get tidy relationships related just to that question. Then I want to say that I am just as concerned about issues related to integration policy, as the representative Nybakk is. It's the Government as a whole. Therefore, the Government, at the Ministry of Education and Research, put forward a strategy for equal education for linguistic minorities just before Christmas. It was a large document, just to ensure better linguistic performance and participation for minority groups, including in the field of drugrelated crime. homework and better cooperation between home and school was a topic. My point is that it's important that this isn't just a question for the immigrant children of the big cities. It's just as important for the immigrant children who had to live elsewhere than in the big cities, that you take care to have that kind of stimulus. It is a special feature of the big cities that they must have the opportunity to solve some more of the integration problem, but we cannot create an action programme just for the big cities, which will sort of deal with all these issues, because here there are actually many municipalities in the country that have a challenge. Let me finally say that I understand it so that in the case of the Capital Message, it is a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party, which is for the general comment that is in the setting. When the Progress Party does not agree with what is going on, it is because they have made a conscious choice, and that is not their answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1101	In addition to the social problems specific to cities, urban challenges are also the history of land conflicts. How housing functions, job functions and leisure functions are positioned geographically in relation to each other will have an effect on whether we are able to create the urban community that all of us living in the city dream about. In particular, the conflicts with transport will be essential. Here I'm glad that we've had a government that's quite in agreement with the fact that it's the best environmental government ever, has invested in the capital's collective network. It is completely impossible to achieve growth in transport and transport needs without a stronger commitment to public transport. It is also very interesting to see in this context that more and more businesses stress the importance of cities having a good transport network, for the simple reason that businesses should have room on the roads for their transport, we need to have more work travel on public transport. It's important, and it's absolutely necessary. So there's no doubt that solving the city's problems is somehow related to what transfers we get in practice. And here it's a big problem for the capital that we get much less transfers than what you do outside the capital region. The figures are about that if you live outside the metropolitan region, Oslo and Akershus, you get about 50 pst. more per cent is based on what is obtained in the Capital Region. And we all agree that we can't have a one-to-one relationship in this context. Norway does not consist of 19 different countries, but there must be a limit to how difficult it is for the capital to retain more of the value that it knowingly aggregates. Transport has been essential for the development of the capital. It's also a hub for the rest of the country. Since Schjøtt-Pedersen found that the government's message was lacking in action and only had a good analysis, I invite the Stortinget in connection with the budget work later this year to show the power of action. And then the litmus test is the project Bjørvika. Oslo has wanted to prioritise at the top of its transport projects the construction of a tunnel in Bjørvika to unlock the potential of urban development and cultural development at that site. In contrast to what applies to all other counties, questions are asked whether Oslo should be allowed to prioritize it as its own project, despite the fact that this is a project that does not amount to more than approx. 2/3 of Oslo car users alone add fuel taxes and vehicle charges in one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1112	The President makes it clear that no evening meeting has been scheduled for today. A timetable has been established for the day based on information provided by the Municipal Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1115	The Committee's attitude has been interesting reading. It's very good there. However, that is not all that we from Oslo can agree on, for example. the Committee says that the pressure on Oslo should be relaxed. But growth in population and jobs is an expression of attractiveness and a source of welfare improvements. In Oslo, we want to make sure that more people can live here, and we don't really need relief. Norwegian cities – even Oslo – are small in an international context, and the pressure on our cities is not enormous either. But the city is exposed to increased interest. There's a lot of people who want to live here. I understand that, because the diversity found in a city has an independent value. It is this diversity that makes big cities regional engines, and it must be allowed to continue. The representative Heikki Holmås took up Rusreform II. The government and the majority of the population did not find that Oslo should receive special treatment here, and the Council of State has justified it. In this round, SV wanted to have differentiation, but otherwise in terms of problem differentiation, the Socialist Left Party is very negative and does not see that the municipalities have different assumptions to solve the problems they face. My question to SV is why one believes that Rusreform II would be a good form of task differentiation, while talking negatively about all other forms of task differentiation. A call to the Government too: it would have been okay to look a little more closely at the laws and regulations and make changes, so that this kind of task differentiation was not stopped by a state regulation, but that it had been possible to actually exploit the different sizes and exploit the diversity of the different cities and regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1126	So when we talk about problem differentiation, the government and government have just gone against the maybe most interesting problem differentiation that has been proposed, namely that Oslo should keep its ability to coordinate its activities in the field. With regard to the representative Larssen and the question of the relief of Oslo, it may well be reasonable to refer to the Government and the Council of State Norman. What I asked for was a very short word to give the Council of State a guide to the question that the Council of State had in relation to the capital message that I assume a unanimous collapse will ask for. There are two premises that form the basis of the comments of the majority, and that I assume are followed up. One is a call for a discussion of the special role of Oslo, i.e. the conditions that are peculiar to Oslo in relation to the other big cities. The second is that the majority requests a specific review of the governance challenges. It is necessary to consider how the coordination of both development work, spatial planning, welfare services and transport services can be improved in the whole of the metropolitan region. That's the mission. The Council of State is entitled to point out, for its part, the issue of spatial planning. It is not part of the mission. The government will have to deal with the matter if it wants to, but the mission of the Storting is, on the one hand, that of Oslo and, on the other, that of the coordination challenges. We look forward to a basis for discussion on those questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1137	It is gratifying that a Joint Committee asks the Government to present its own Capital Message. There is a great need for such a message that can put the capital's special needs on the agenda, and I am pleased that the idea of a comprehensive presentation of Oslo's special challenges and opportunities has won such a broad welcome. Oslo represents a significant part of the value creation in Norway, and there is a need to discuss how conditions can be improved to facilitate an economic growth in the capital that can lift the whole region and provide higher employment. Let me just mention one ratio. In view of the shipping industry and related business activities, which constitute 5 pst. by employment in Oslo, we get a chance to do something concrete when the shipping message is presented to the Stortinget. In a globalized world, capital goes where capital feels it's best to be, and for those maritime industries are much at stake. Oslo can't afford to lose more jobs, and I therefore look forward to the government being able to give an overall presentation of how we can best secure employment for the future. We now feel that jobs are disappearing, and the environments in which we have a particular competitive advantage from nature are being severely weakened, while the public sector and the protected industry are increasing. Oslo has lost thousands of industrial jobs in recent years. We have also seen an increasing number of Norwegian shipping companies being sold abroad. It is important that we now, through a forward-looking policy, take care of the environments and competences built up over generations in financial, brokering and shipping activities. Oslo must still be one of the world's leading shipping cities. Oslo has half of its drug users and also a clear overweight of people with mental health problems. This creates very special problems, which also have to be resolved in an extraordinary way. The big city report shows that within Oslo there are more people who have symptoms of mental problems in the inner east of Oslo than in the other parts of the city. In this regard, I do not think that a satisfactory solution has been found to the overwhelming challenges we are facing in the field of drugs and psychiatry. It is also clear from the notification that of the well 200 000 non-Western immigrants now living in Norway, the main gravity is in the Oslo region. The multicultural challenges associated with this, especially for Oslo, are another aspect which suggests that there is a need for a separate metropolitan message. Let me just give you one other example. In some parts of the city, there is a high cost of following up some children and young people who have come here as refugees from areas affected by military conflicts. On Søndre Nordstrand, for example, I have been informed that several individuals cost up to 2 million. and 3 million. kr per. person. The same town had to cut homework last year with 150 000 kroner, which offered several hundred children. The State should cover costs over a certain sum, e.g.: 500,000 kroner. All these facts indicate that we are now receiving our own capital message, so that these problems can be discussed in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1154	Heikki Holmås has had the word twice and gets the word to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1157	I almost have to answer Heidi Larssen, since she asks me, and the question goes on task differentiation in relation to Rusreform II and the whole conversion there. The important thing in this context is that in the case of the drug problem, Oslo is in a special position, because Oslo as a county was responsible for this in advance. But I fully agree with what the Council of State said in view of the fact that in the extension of this one can look at whether not the other cities, for example. those who sought to assume part of this responsibility, namely Trondheim, Tromsø and Stavanger, may also be allowed to assume such responsibility. We're for task differentiation in SV. We have it as a principle. But I think it is important to remember that the difference in some contexts between the Right and the SV is that the Right, because they aim to abolish the County Council, wants to push as many tasks as possible out of the county, while we have looked into whether the county and the regional level can take over several of the tasks of the State, such as: carriage. It has to follow up on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1166	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on substance. So 1 is over. [[Fotation, see page 1809]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1181	In Document No: 8:1 for 2003-2004 the representatives Marit Arnstad and Åslaug Haga propose to set up an independent district commissioner to coordinate and develop regional action. An overall committee shows that there is broad political agreement on the need for coordination in the districts, and also refers to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs letter of 15 December 2003 to the Stortinget. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Centre Party, is of the opinion that the response to these challenges is not in setting up a district ombudsman. The majority do not agree with the document’s proposal to set up a district agency. An alternate majority points to various arguments in favour of the creation of such an agent. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, on the one hand, and the county councils, on the other, perform the functions pointed out by the proposers, on the other. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has a coordinating responsibility. The county council has an important role as a development actor and should contribute to regional coordination. Reference is made to the need to provide the good examples of viable communities in the regional communications submitted to the Storting every four years. This is the theme of the message. Furthermore, a majority emphasises the importance of the work of the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions. This majority also draws up the investigation guide on the need to make the impact of government policies on districts more visible. The examination of Document No 8:1 must also be seen in the context of the treatment of Document No. 8:2 and Document No 8:4, which we're going to deal with in the next case. Now that we will have a commission appointed to assess the conditions and developments of local democracy, of course, the parties that do not currently agree to the creation of a district agency have not re-emphasized the possibility of re-assessing this if the Commission against assumption would suggest such a thing. I expect the Central Party will argue to maintain the proposal to set up a district agent. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1204	I need to stress that, like the proposers, we are engaged in a good district policy, and that we see that there is a need to take care of it better than today, but we are therefore uncertain whether an ombudsman's order is the most effective. As the District Commission is at work, we believe it is right to await it. But one of the things we've been given, and as we've already seen, is, as the Impact Committee has pointed out, that it's been a very spin of both instruments and policies. This may indicate that the proposal put forward by the Central Party and the SV in the budget, namely that the impact of regional policy on major policy areas, should have been the right and important first step. I also believe that the Labour Party supported that proposal at the end of the budgetary procedure. I want to say that, because some of the problem here is that you adopt a policy, and then you wait to see how it works, so you should figure out in advance instead of coming back with a repair policy. As we know the ombudsmen's arrangements, they are primarily about having a kind of upkeep between government and law enforcement and individuals. To be an ombudsman on behalf of a policy area is probably the main task of politicians. That is also why we wanted politicians to commit themselves to assessing the consequences of their own decisions, and that is basically the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1213	The Central Party wants a system of independent district commissioners to be tried out, which could have continuously assessed the impact on the districts of national decisions taken in different policy areas and also contributed to a wider debate on rural policy and its consequences. I think I agree with those who say that the Power Selection has in a way given us a taste of this. It is interesting that some of the conclusions there are also very clear on both the scope of action you have as one could have taken, and also that political decisions have had concrete negative effects. In a way, the Centre Party considers a district ombudsman as an opportunity to have a standing power selection that can continuously assess the overall impact. It would probably give us a better and more independent knowledge base to be able to assess district policy as a whole. Unfortunately, the centre party is not in a position to say that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is doing so today. It is clear that the Government – and the state council’s opinions confirm it and leave little doubt about it – has its own agenda in district policy. Some of the comments and also statements that will fall will, of course, be marked by the political agenda that you actually have. There's nothing wrong with it, but it might just suggest that you could need an independent body that could assess the ongoing consequences. In addition, I believe that through today's system, despite the coordinating role of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, we lack the ability to see the impact of decisions in other sectors. I would like to point out the rationalizations and transitions that you have seen in the state sector and their effects on some peripheral areas. In particular, some administrative centres on the outskirts are typical examples of how we are not entirely able to calculate the effects of decisions on outskirts and districts. The centre party does not regard this as an agent in the sense that there should be some kind of complaint wall. It could probably have been possible to find a more accurate name for it. We want a body to function in the same way as the Glasbygdsverket in Sweden. And there is no wall of complaint today. It indicates the impact of national policies on a number of areas for districts and rural areas — this is the point. The centre party is concerned that a one-off investigation such as that of the Impact Committee will be carried out in the absence of appropriate political conclusions. An existing agent would not be delayed in the same way, but could have a stronger role in this context. However, we in the Central Party have the hope that a local democracy commission, at least for a certain period of time, will be able to fulfil a kind of function, and that the District Commission will also be able to perform some of the functions. Nevertheless, the Central Party wants one to have established such an independent representative. I would like to take up with this the proposal of the Centre Party, which we believe it is necessary to be dealt with in the Chamber today. Otherwise, I think this is a question you will also come back to at later intersections.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1230	The representative Arnstad then mentioned the proposal she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1233	The Left shares the objectives of the Centre Party in relation to putting district policy on the agenda. There's a continuous fight and a continuous discussion here as well. We have a very exciting district commission, I think, as a member of it, where there are many exciting discussions in relation to just this. What I'm reacting to is the term ‘ Ombudsman’. Inflation is now taking place in the concept of ‘ Ombudsman’. I believe that in a democracy it is the elected representatives who are always representatives. I believe that strictly speaking, we should have only one representative, the Children's Ombudsman, because children do not have the right to vote. The fact that the Central Party is now submitting a proposal to use an agent in district policy must mean that the Central Party has abdicated or abandoned the fight for its own district policy, giving up that they themselves should be the drivers of district policy. Left hasn't done that. We do not want to adjourn as drivers of district policy. That's why we don't want to put it away to any other body outside the People's Party that's going to affect it. So in the end, when you bring forward Swedish district policy as the ideal, I have to say that we have done a lot better with our district policy than the Swedish have done with the tools they have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1244	I cannot leave the post of the representative of the Left here unanswered. Firstly, if it is the Ombudsman's name that is the problem for the Left, and not the content of the Central Party's proposal regarding an independent body that can assess the impact of the district policy, I think that the Left should have joined the proposal, and rather sought to find a different name for it. As I said, and it is also clear from the proposal, this is not meant to be a wall of complaint in the form of an agent in that way. It is intended to be a parallel to the Swedish Glasbygdskverket, which independently assesses the impact of national political decisions on rural areas. In the case that the Left has not abdicated in district policy: Yes, I don't know, I! I am not so sure when I see this government's line in district policy, where the District Policy soul of the Left is located. It is not very good to trace and not much offensive measures to trace from the Government in terms of day-to-day district policy. No, this is not a request from the Central Party to take over Swedish district policy! This is a request from the Central Party to take over a Swedish institution that works well just like the independent investigative body it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1255	The left is pleased that the Impact Committee has now presented its position, which provides many good input both to the political debate and to the District Commission. This government put down the District Commission, and hopefully it will soon put down a local democracy commission. These are political commissions that aim to reach a broad political consensus on the big grips. That's what this government has done. We've been involved in initiating this. The last step, the local democracy commission, I think also that the Left must have a little bit of credit for. That means that we do not waive responsibility for this. We don't want to put it anywhere else. We want to put that right there. We want to place it with the political parties, and we want a common position in the political parties on the big grips here. If this is something that works so very well in Sweden, I wonder why it has not affected district policy better.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1264	It seems clear from this change of words that the Central Party itself has recognised that the term ‘ ombudsman’ does not fit very well with what you have in mind. I think that is a priceless clarification, because we are struggling with the problem that the term ‘ ombudsman’ is one of the few words with which the Norwegian language has enriched the world languages. This may have led to the belief that the solution to all possible societal problems is the establishment of a new ombudsman system. We have a children's agent. Many have argued for an elderly representative for a long time. If there's a majority for that, you're going to need a middle-aged agent. Some people want a loner agent. Someone wants a family agent. If you continue that thinking, it really dissolves democracy as a form of government. It is another side of the matter that concerns me perhaps as much, and it is the word compilation ‘independent district commissioner’ – regardless of what? Is there independence from the political system by establishing a state bureaucracy in the Swedish Glasbygdsverket, which, as far as I know, employs between 35 and 40 bureaucrats? I just think that this is terribly bad thought. To the extent that expert assessments of regional policy issues are needed, we have plenty of research environments in this country that have the necessary skills and where to obtain those assessments. The response to the need for independence in the research approach is already available. The answer is under no circumstances to create a new state bureaucracy. I think it is a good thing to keep track of language, and to use the honorary word “independent” – if it is a honorary word – where it belongs in our system of governance, namely in the courts and in the research institutions. Independence is not a concept that should be linked to new state bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1277	Marit Arnstad has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment. If this continues any longer, we need a big-time president's office!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1282	I do not think Inge Wohnung could have read the reasons for the proposal put forward by the Central Party here. Then he would have understood that trying to do this into a debate about the use of the term ‘committee’ or not entirely meaningless. It is clear that what we are proposing to draw up analyses and make the impact of rural development visible is to provide good examples and provide background information. One might say that it is a kind of research activity, and in that way it should also be independent. Our concept of independence is at least linked to being independent of all party political leadership for which policy developments are being envisaged, and should provide, as far as possible, solid evidence of the consequences and effects of different decisions. Then you can call it a research assignment if you want. It could have been like this would have been 10 or 15 researchers and the analysis would have been done. I can't see that there had been anything negative – on the contrary. It might have provided an even better basis than if so-called bureaucrats had done so, even though I have nothing against neither state nor municipal bureaucrats. They do their job, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1290	As I said earlier, there is no set-up for tonight's meeting. We have two things left on the agenda. The President asks the representatives to reconcile the length of their statements with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1293	It has to be, sir. President! I thought it appeared from my post that I was not interested in language usage in and separately, but that I was interested in the matter contained in the proposal of the Central Party. I've read it quite carefully. I am not able to understand that the answer to what you are looking for is an analogy to the Swedish Glasbygdskverket. The only concreteisation that has come from the centre party is the reference to the Swedish model. As has been pointed out in the debate, the creation of a state bureaucracy has not exactly contributed much to laying the foundation for a future-oriented rural policy in Sweden. My observation of the existence of research competence was just meant as an indication that we actually have relevant research environments, both at several of our scientific colleges, at our district colleges and at our universities. There is no reason whatsoever to set up a new central bureaucracy to provide a pre-existing competence. All you can achieve in that way is to waste with state resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1302	I have a lot of awareness with the President, who is going to run these debates so that we avoid the evening meeting, but I have to be allowed to make a brief comment in relation to Inge Wohnung and the post he held. He maintained the Glasbygdskverket as an example that Swedish district policy does not work. These are political choices, and there is a lack of political will in Sweden to bet on an offensive district policy, which has resulted in the results we are now seeing. In Norway, it is actually such that after this proposal was made, the Effect Selection has presented its setting. And what does that show? Well, it shows that the action space in Norwegian district policy is larger than many expect. In fact, the effectiveness selection also shows that traditional district policies work, and the effectiveness selection shows that it is necessary to review and evaluate the impact of the decisions in relation to the consequences of the districts. Inge Wohnung's many attacks on the Center Party can only be interpreted in one way: he doesn't want a more offensive district policy. We've understood from before that Right doesn't want to, and it has Inge Wage today confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1316	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 1810]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1345	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1354	The Municipal Committee unanimously recommends that the Government establish a wide-ranging commission to assess the conditions and developments of local democracy. It will be in line with what the rapporteurs Trine Skei Grande and May Britt Vihovde propose in Document No. 8:4. A local democracy commission could be a suitable forum to go through the existing knowledge base, gather experiences and give direction to our future local democracy. Such an approach will also very much respond to what has been proposed by the proposers Åslaug Haga and Marit Arnstad in Document No. 8:2, establishing a local democratic idea selection. The proposers point out in their proposal, Document No. 8:4, that there is cause for concern about the future of local democracy after a choice with record low participation. Electoral participation shows that the distance between the citizen and the elected people has become too large and that the space for action in local policy has deteriorated. The importance of local choices is not as obvious as before. The proposers wish to focus on this through a non-prejudiced investigation on causes, contexts and challenges. As the rapporteur, I share that concern, a view which also has broad political support in the municipal committee. Norway has good traditions for municipalities to have a wide-ranging portfolio of tasks. They really are what we can call welfare municipalities, where they appear to be efficient and close service providers and community developers – unlike the more well-being municipalities we find in several European countries. A number of pilot projects have made a useful contribution to building up knowledge in order to further develop local democracy. Among these trials are both direct rapporteurs' elections and their own election day, and they provide a better basis for knowledge of democracy. Furthermore, the power and democracy investigation has also made important contributions to the challenges of local democracy. An assessment of both short-term and long-term developments will be central to the analyses to be carried out by a local democracy commission. Many factors affect the conditions of the local government, and the municipal committee is unanimous in its wish that the new Commission should make proposals that can contribute to increased involvement, participation and local space for action. Furthermore, the Commission must look at the relationship between the State and the municipality. Municipalities are responsible for a variety of tasks, but they must also have the freedom to organise and perform these tasks. The Commission is also asked to assess the impact of the allocation of financial resources between local and central levels, and the ability and limitations to generate own resources. At the same time, it is necessary to highlight the impact of changes in government governance systems towards market principles and formal exemption on the one hand and new supervisory bodies and supervision on local democracy on the other. We have also been concerned about the fact that international agreements offer opportunities and constraints that have a strong impact on local policy. New forms of organisation, outsourcing, privatisation, increased use of enterprises and the share company model also change the content and space of local government. At the same time, it may also be interesting for the Commission to highlight the role of the media in modern communities. Also worth looking at are the experience from other countries with a strongly decentralised democracy, and, if appropriate, propose how lessons from other countries can be learned in Norway. A new Commission alone will not solve the tasks and challenges facing local democracy. I think this will require efforts in many areas, where much of the responsibility will continue to rest on the political parties – local, regional and central. It is in this context that the Municipal Committee is involved in the examination of Document No. 8:4 unanimously recommends the Storting to ask the Government to appoint a commission to assess the conditions and developments of local democracy. Having regard to that, the Municipal Committee is equally unanimous in its recommendation that Document No. The 8:2 proposal for the establishment of a local democratic Idea Committee is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1373	Of course, the Labour Party agrees that a Commission should be created to assess the conditions of local democracy. It is absolutely necessary that the work be put on a broad front with the aim of creating a better basis for local democracy in the future. I would like to stress that the municipality has a self-esteem both as a democratic body and as a local authority. He is in many ways the very foundation of the political commitment of the great majority of Norwegian citizens. There are daily discussions and positions in municipal bodies, and a lot of the stalls of the big community are being created in this area. Actually, there is no lack of knowledge about how local democracy works. We have a lot of experience and material in this area. The last expression came through the expression of power and democracy that was recently presented. In the setting of the Municipal Committee, the convergence is much wider than the proposals from the Left have been submitted. It is pointed out that the Commission must have a mandate to assess the short-term and long-term trends of local democracy. I would like to stress that the Commission's work should not primarily provide a descriptive presentation, but that there are analyses and suggestions for improvements that must be the key area of the Commission's work. The Committee has done well in which area the Commission should have looked into in its work. I assume that the Government follows the broad perspective that the Size should be used in the distribution and analysis work. I want to stress that we already have a good knowledge of the long term development. The power allocation has given us valuable material. This document will contain many other documents. pointed out that privatisation and increased market power lead to a reduction in our rule of law. So power is being moved from elected bodies to the market. There's a development that there's every reason to notice, a development that the Labour Party doesn't want. During this ageing period, there have been several political disputes about the use of competition in public service provision. The Labour Party has often pointed out that more competition in key welfare tasks such as training and care would jeopardise an equivalent service provision. Over time, such a policy will create greater differences among those who need these basic welfare services. I think that if there is more use of private solutions in welfare provision in municipalities, it will reduce municipal service production. In turn, this will reduce the legitimacy of local democracy. There is a development that the Workers' Party cannot accept. The members of the municipal committee have a lot of contact with the elected representatives of our municipalities and counties. Very often we meet with one main point of view: the community sector has too little resources to solve its tasks. It is underlined that the situation is now much worse than before. It says in different ways: today is almost 25 pst. by our municipalities placed on the so-called ROBEK list and thus put under state administration. In addition, it is a fact that the deficit in the municipal sector is approximately NOK 12 billion. These developments are very unfortunate, and this leads many elected people to ask for the idea of engaging in the management of their municipalities. In the Labour Party, we are concerned that if the economic imbalances in the municipal sector are not corrected, the conditions for the local government will be significantly weakened. That is why we have proposed other financial arrangements for the municipalities than the Bondevik government has presented. I would like to stress that the political space for action of the municipalities has been substantially reduced in recent years. In this way, local democracy has also become weak. There is no reason to believe that a Commission alone can solve the major challenges facing local democracy. But I believe that if a thorough analysis is carried out and shown the willingness to present forward-looking proposals for improvements – over a broad register – it can provide us with an even better basis for giving the elected local and regional governments greater authority for their municipal activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1396	The party of progress has doubted that it makes sense to put down another commission. I think there are several people who have done that. So now we have the power investigation, we have the Power Selection, we have the District Commission – which is working and is going to finish its work in September – and we have a number of district policy statements. We have the municipal bill, we have annual budgets and audits of the budget, where these are current issues every time. I would like to refer to the previous debate, in which the representative, Mr Wohnung, had a really good point: is there really a need for more commissions now? Isn't it true that we have more than enough documentation that we can use for what's the objective here, to increase local democracy? What is the problem, and what the proposers point to, is that there is a terrible uprising in elections. So the voters are indifferent, completely indifferent, and then we have to ask ourselves the question, why? Is it the case that we should create greater equality with the political parties? I think, on the other hand, that we have to go a completely different way. I think one of the main reasons why the voters don't come forward is that they don't see any difference anymore. There is no alternative in local policy. All of them, most of the parties, merge into one city council, into one municipal government, which stands together, largely, about all the decisions. Then we will address the question of whether the voters are satisfied with the adoption of this overall municipal or urban council. Here lies, I think, the major problems with regard to the development of local democracy. The Progress Party is constantly trying to point out its desire to revitalise local democracy, i.e. that voters – users – must have a greater influence on the decisions made. I refer to the previous post, from the representative Sandal, and that is, the big difference between the Progress Party and the rest is that when the other parties talk about local democracy, it is all the time about the work of local politicians and the ability of local politicians to influence local democracy, while we are talking more and more about the individual who lives and works in the municipality, who needs to be better cared for by having influence, through the user's choice. That's the difference. I believe, although we support the creation of this Commission, that both what the rapporteur had to do with creating a Commission that should be open to prejudice, and what the representative Inge Wohnning had to say in the previous debate, and what the centre party was very concerned about, namely an independent commission, is to believe in Christmas. As long as the political parties are to be represented in these commissions and committees, we are not able to achieve prejudice or independence. Then it'll still be the same thing that breaks up again, no matter how many commissions we had to put down. I'm afraid that we are also here at the house, like in county policy and municipal policy, putting the policy into commissions, into selections, into bureaucracy, without wiping out any decisions of our own. But we are involved in supporting the creation of such a commission, and we also hope that it will be possible to get a commission that gathers the competences we have already acquired through power investigation and power selection, so that we hopefully get a biased and independent commission that can point to the fundamental problems of local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1409	All issues of democracy, whether local, national or global, are political issues, and responsibility for political parties and organisations. SV needs to stress it in our article on this matter, because when we support the proposal to create a local democracy commission, it is not because we believe that there should be some neutral judges who should say something that is right and not right. This is about politics, and this is about different choices and how to focus on them. SV is pleased that it has been possible to obtain a much wider mandate during the committee process than it seemed to be initially. It was a prerequisite for SV to be able to support the creation of such a commission. If you limit what you're going to look at, just to, to say this, an interaction between the Greatness and local democracy, it just limits it to saying that yes, there are some small financial resources here, and if they're to be earmarked or not to be earmarked, then you've bombed significantly on what it is that affects politics. It was important for us to get it into these points that this Commission was going to look at. We are very pleased that the committee opened up to it, so that you look at the big things, how the space for politics in general, including globally, has become smaller. It's very important to look at. In addition, it is very important to look at not only that the state governs, but also how the state governs, cf. a debate we've had here before today, about how the state sometimes cracks in every direction – how the state governs fragmentedly, how the state governs through corporate forms that make political governance almost impossible. It is also very important for the SV to look at the distribution of economic resources between local and central levels. It is a political issue of distribution policy. It's clear that there are big differences between the parties, and they're there -- that's one of the main reasons why we have different political parties. But there is no doubt that a prerequisite for having something to deal with locally is that you have some money of your own, and not least that you have the freedom to get some money of your own. That's why SV has called for attempts with freer municipal taxpayers, and it is an important matter to look at. I would then like to refer to the major investigation carried out by the Municipalities' Central Association, where a cross-political selection of municipal politicians from all parties that sit on the Stortinget has established that it is important to give the municipalities the opportunity to obtain their own income for projects with which they can go to the population and say: Should we have a split layer on this, should we take the costs of this solidarity? That's what everyone has said they think is important. It will move some of the decisions closer to the population, and it will be easier for people to see the relationship between what you pay in and what you get out. That is what SV believes is very important for local democracy to live on. There are a number of points that it has been possible to get into this setting, and which we, as I said, are very happy with. But I want to finally look at the point that concerns the role of the media. It is true that the media play a very important role, not only for what is on the political agenda nationally and internationally, but also locally, in good and bad. That's the reality you live in, even in the communities. The angle that the media takes on a matter, or the fact that a matter is totally lost in the media and is completely impossible to get any searchlight on, can actually have a very big impact on the solution of the matter and on whether politicians engage in it. That's the way it is. So we could like that or not like that, but it's a reality, and I think we're too little conscious, and also that the population is sometimes too little aware of how much media decides what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1422	The Committee refers to the opinions of Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik at the Municipal Conference of the Municipalities of the Communes on 26 January this year. The Prime Minister’s theme was ‘Local and Regional Democracy in a Future Perspective’. The Prime Minister invited local politicians in municipalities and regions to stand up and take responsibility for the development of their communities and regions, and indeed to withdraw power. If the Prime Minister did not fear that more and more proposals would be made for the State to take over tasks and responsibilities that are currently at local and regional level. The Committee notes that it shares the wide-ranging description of local democracy developments by the proposers. These developments include, inter alia: described as follows: ‘In total, the development of the local self-government can be summarised over the past decades as a transition from local autonomy to government.’ The Christian People's Party does not want such a development. In the debate on the big cities earlier today, the representative Anita Apelthun Sæle said that the message could be summarized briefly: the big city politicians must be masters in their own house. The Christian People's Party will not only give greater responsibility and freedom to big city politicians. We want this to be the situation throughout the country. The Christian People's Party sees local democracy as a value in itself. Democracy is no natural thing. Democracy must be taught and practiced if we are to maintain this form of governance – a form of governance that is the best we have. I am concerned that more and more, at both regional and local level, are reducing the number of representatives who are getting involved in the elected bodies. At the same time, red tape employees have increased significantly. It is important that we have good control and supervision systems, but I am constantly getting feedback that bureaucratic regulation and control not only deprive local democracy of power and authority, but also becomes an obstacle to wise and correct solutions for the benefit of the community and the individual citizen. Representatives from all parties speak intensely and warmly about local democracy and its importance. At the same time, I experience over and over again that flooding and other central authorities are not willing to let matters be resolved in the local environment. This worries me. Today, we are concerned with user involvement in the development and implementation of offers. This is important. Whoever wears the shoe knows best where it presses. The provision and measures concern the lives of individual citizens. But at the same time, we are giving our citizens a new role. We move away from the role of citizens with social responsibility for the user and consumer role, where we shop well and are busy with the good purchase. The Committee asks for a broad mandate to be given to the local democracy commission to address a number of aspects. The Christian People's Party has expectations of the local democracy commission. It is important to get a good analysis of why we are not able to strengthen local democracy when we all express our desire. It is important that the Commission points to the obstacle mechanisms and to the possibilities of moving towards the stated objective. The Commission, as many have said, will not solve the problems alone. As I have said, the Christian People's Party has expectations for the work of the Commission, but it will be crucial if the political parties and representatives in this Chamber show the ability to act, not just to give speeches.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1451	This debate is about two Documents Nos. Eight proposals. The one proposal was put forward by the Central Party, and the other by the Left. Wider participation in local political processes makes it more likely that local government acts as a political laboratory that develops constructive ideas, solutions and reforms. This may increase the well-being and well-being of the community. The opportunities for local democracy to show such innovation power are increasing with the number of citizens who are actively engaged in local policies and at the same time operate within frameworks, especially economic ones, which make creative policy development realistic. The expression of power and democracy shows that the framework of municipal local democracy has been limited in the last 20 years. The reason for this development is twofold: State equality requirements and national standards, which have weakened the local freedom of action municipalities have had to adapt the service provision to local conditions, and partly weak local economy and tight budgets, which have reduced the ability to be innovative and support local preferences in general. In addition, the budgetary situation also weakens the incentive to take on local political responsibilities, as the reduced economic space reduces the chances of launching local policy initiatives and long-term plans. Last night I was at a meeting in Klepp – we were going to get a report from the local government group – and they said it this way: We are actually running right now and distributing poverty. So they had to do a dramatic cut instead of the priorities they'd prefer. The distribution of power and democracy points to a number of signs in time that indicate that local self-government lacks attraction. It shows an alarming curve when the selection is selected. Another very disturbing aspect is the accession of the political party and the elected bodies. The number of members of the various political parties is about half over 20 years, and we know most recently in the fall that there are fewer and fewer who are willing to be nominated for election lists. It is on this background that the Centre Party has produced its Document No. Eight proposals for an idea selection to try to create a new and forward-looking change of words on this issue, based on the analysis of power and democracy. We also saw an idea selection that leads to the new and concrete suggestions on how local self-government can strengthen its position within the Norwegian local democracy. We also mean that there are experiences to get from other countries, for example. Switzerland and the United States. In parallel with this, there are also proposals for a local democracy commission. We in the Central Party are very pleased that what we pointed out as the main tasks with an idea selection is now being included in the Commission's mandate. Let me also say that the case-speaker, Hans Kristian Hogsnes, has been both listening and attending to the process that has taken place in the committee, and he has made sure that recordings that have come from different parties have been made. This Commission is now in favour of a much wider mandate than the original one from the Left, as well as of what was pointed out by the Centre Party. We thought it was very important that the Commission also look at what is happening to changes when a government frees up business. The impact of new forms of organisation – postponing competition, privatisation, increasing the use of businesses and share company models – also alters the content and space of the role of local government and the like media, not least the role of the local media. We have argued that this Commission does not now close up, but is involved in good debates and makes constructive proposals locally with regard to measures that will strengthen local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1470	The left is, of course, very pleased with the fact that our proposal for a local democracy commission has been fully endorsed by both the magnificence and government, and we see it as extending the mandate somewhat, as we in the Left feel well. We have no problem with that. It is positive with a common understanding that a weakened local democracy is a serious challenge, and that together we see it as a task to strengthen it. Without a local experience of democratic importance and function, the understanding of democracy can also be weakened in national policies. Democracy and participation have been fought over decades, not to say over centuries, and we must never take it for granted. Loss is too precious, and vigilance and awareness are required if it is not to be gradually altered. There are always forces ready to enter into power where opportunities arise to exercise power. In addition, it is about the legitimacy and efficiency of the entire administration. For the Left, it is obvious that municipalities can spend their money more efficiently if they have greater freedom and are not controlled in detail by the State. Designation has good intentions, but confuses the local democracy's own priorities and timetables. You're adapting in an irrational way, because you want to get the fresh money. It is gratifying that the Committee together underlines the self-esteem of the municipality as a locally and democratically elected joint body for citizens. It is important to include it in the discussion also on changing the municipal structure and level of administration. It is with some wonder that I see how the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre also affirm their fundamentalism in the question of private services within what is called welfare production in the municipality. Neither does the Left see outsourcing as a good solution anywhere, but it is very little constructive to be dogmatic about this. It is the opposite of increased local democracy to provide governmental leadership that will limit local freedom to choose different solutions. It's not that long since the Workers' Party had a completely different and liberal attitude to this point. In connection with the party's national meeting in 1998, then party leader Thorbjørn Jagland said to the evening post on 19 November of that year: 'We have a pragmatic relationship with privatisation. The essential thing is that the supply of the population is equal. The objective must be a more sensible formulation of private and public solutions.’.» It is a pity that the party is now leaving the common sense and entering a pure museum alliance in relation to modernisation and the public sector. I hope the Commission's work will at least lead to the recognition that the decision on who should and can perform public services on behalf of the municipality is decided locally and not through ideological attachment in the party centrally. This also applies to the right, which believes that private solutions are always the best and cheapest, without respect for different assessments and solutions locally on this issue. We're already going to go in the opposite direction to the total committee signaling through the setting. Increased freedom must necessarily be accompanied by acceptance and recognition of different choices. I will not go further in the real debate. The Commission will take a broad approach to work and quiet with blank papers: see without prejudice to all relevant factors. In fact, there is already much to build on, as the Committee also points out. The Progress Party expresses concern about an increased Commissioner and that controversial issues in this way are being pushed away from the political arena. It's a timely reminder. Neither will the left want inflation in commissions. Our intention of the proposal is by no means to push controversial issues out of the political arena; on the contrary, we want a stronger focus on the theme, greater interest and thorough reflection. The Commission must not work in the hidden or in a political vacuum but must work against dialogue with citizens, parties and municipalities. The left will at least help to keep the debate warm and hope that others will contribute to the same. The aim of the Commission must be to agree on some common principles and common rules at state level. Per Sandberg has an interesting objection, but it's wrong to say that there's a problem that we have a common national platform. The different local governments need to gain more power and find different solutions for their citizens. Finally, I would just like to point out that this might be the most important step we can take to increase the turnout.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1496	I won't extend the debate much. I just want to say that the questions and themes raised in the majority comments will be included in the mandate of the panel. I am concerned that we should not have any conflict related to the development of the mandate, but, above all, take the conflicts when the Commission is finished, in order to have a basis for doing so, if necessary. I also have no strong back ground reflexes to reduce commissions or anything else, but my hope is that this theme, which is in a way cross-sectoral, which is a problem phase that does not go into the usual policy lines, can be highlighted, and that we can look at the factors that contribute to local democracy in the current situation, where 57 pst. the voters have gone and voted. You can either say that it's because the voters are stupid and don't understand that they should, or you can say that the voters have seen through the system and realized that local politicians have too little power in their everyday lives, and that that choice therefore doesn't matter either. I have registered that different commentators have different objections to it. Either way, I think, if we peel away the party political discussion, that most of us have a concern about the development of local democracy, but we may have different answers. I think it's important that you have a basis for discussing it. Hopefully you can also create the basis for a commission that pulls the lines a little bit forward and creates a little bit more consensus about what solutions are going to be. I think one of our main problems is that the sum of the individual decisions is too little illustrated in relation to what it looks like for the local government sector. It is not just a matter of what framework the municipalities will have. There are also questions about how much we limit their ability to find good and new solutions. I have recorded that a doctoral thesis has recently taken place where one has looked at the ability to convert and develop in the Norwegian municipal sector, in relation to the Swedish and Danish municipal sectors. The thesis showed that the Norwegian municipal sector is much less self-creating than the others are. I've been to both Sweden and Denmark, and I know they're just as angry at the state that there's too little money. That's not just the question. It could be that the sum of what we're doing has also created a wrong attitude in politics. I believe that, in the interests of the Norwegian society and the welfare community, it is quite important to increase the innovation power of the public sector. It is not least about the local government sector in relation to a number of solutions. I know that not least cooperation with the third sector has been driven in some municipalities locally because pragmatic solutions have been found that the state would probably never be able to do with the governance that the state has in any case, and this cooperation has had meaning in the sense that new ideas and ideas have been developed about how to get good offers. It also makes it more interesting to be a municipal politician to have authority and room to do so. But first of all, I think that in this round we're just going to agree that we're going to put all the issues on the table, and then the Commission is going to spend a few years on the discussion, and then we're going to have to take the party policy afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1512	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[Fotation, see page 1810]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1520	Then we go to voting in the cases on today's map. The President would also like to remind you once again that it is an advantage for representatives to sit down as quickly as possible when they enter the Chamber. Then it is easier for those to have an overview, to see who is present, and thereby get the right balance – especially when we have sharp voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1529	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4-6, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, we are voting on the proposals of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a model to convert the working methods of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs so that the Ministry is given an increased role as a service organisation for the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to present a separate urban message addressing in particular the role of cities and regional centres in rural policy.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the six major Norwegian cities be given concrete roles in relation to regional development, at the expense of the role of the county.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1565	It is voted on by the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to participate in a model that creates real partnerships between the county councils and different state actors, where the parties participate in commitments in different regional development projects.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Government to syte to strengthen the county’s role as planning authority.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission of a plan for a coordinated and balanced regional distribution of state involvement, including the assessment of the relocation of state enterprise from the Capital Region.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1619	The President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-10.ana.ud2319e1634	During the debate, Mrs Arnstad has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up an independent district commissioner to work for coordination and development of efforts directed towards the districts.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's attitude.
