ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e104	Honourable co-representatives! Major Leif Lund has resigned at death. It was with deep sorrow that we received the sad message that Leif Lund was dead, only 61 years old. Leif carried his longstanding cancer with admirable strength. Despite a number of relapses, he was able to return to Stortinget with a lot of work to do, but on Sunday 30 May he had to give up on the disease. Bergen and Hordaland have lost a job on the payroll representative, and we have lost a good colleague, friend and humorist. Leif was born in Bergen in 1942. He grew up in Sandviken with his mother, father and his twin brother. At the age of 16, he started working on the Roof mill. Here he met an active and radical trade union environment, which impressed him strongly. He became head of the Millworkers Trade Union in 1974. Politics and trade union work were two sides of the same case for Leif. Work on safe jobs and social justice brought him back to society. He became an active member of the Workers' Party, first as a city councilman and municipal politician in Bergen, before he entered the Stortinget in 1993. In his first two periods here at Stortinget, Leif was a member of the Municipal Committee. Here he worked on a wide range of issues, not least strengthening professional rights and ensuring a good working environment for people. Leif was very concerned about Bergen and the challenges facing Norwegian big cities. He had a strong commitment to these matters, which helped inspire people around him. During the current period, Leif was an active member of the Defence Committee. Until the last time he worked on the defence's long-term plan. Not least he was engaged in and worked hard to get the dry dock rusted up at Haakonsvern, which would ensure Bergen many jobs. And he did it. Leif was proud of his background. He knew who he was and where he came from. He stood his whole life solidly planted in the labor movement--without compromise. He was deeply concerned with values of equality and solidarity with other people. Leif had very good contact with people - with parties, with trade union representatives and with the voters. He always said that this contact gave him important input into the political work, and we got that from the Working Party's big group. It was always clear speech when Leif took the word. Injustice, that some fell outside, engaged him. He was upset by the lack of social responsibility. Leif was a person who was not only respected here at Stortinget. He was also very much like. He was inclusive and meticulous. He had smiled on the nap, a good glimpse in the eye and in twenty-goats' way always a striking line in stock, both to sentences and to opponents. He spread a good mood, and he made us feel welcome and valuable. We have all lost a good colleague and friend, and our thoughts go to the family, who has lost his dear husband and father. Former Major Finn Thoresen is dead, 72 years old. Finn Thoresen was born on 21 January 1932 and grew up on a small farm in Spydeberg. He was a commanding officer and worked for many years with exports within the Norwegian industry. In 1969, in cooperation with Norsk Hydro, he established a machine company, which he led to 1975. After 1975 he worked as an independent business consultant. Thoresen had a long-standing political commitment, and he went too far into politics after the EC debate in 1972. In 1973 he participated in the formation of Anders Langes Parti, and for periods he held several positions of trust in the Progress Party during the 1970s and 1980s, as a member of the Central Government and as Chairman and Vice President of the Eastfold and Akershus Progress Party respectively. He became a member of the City Council of Ski in 1979 and was vice-president from 1984 to 1987. Thoresen met for short periods as an alternate to the Stortinget in the period 1981-1985 and was elected to the Stortinget as representative of Akershus in 1989. In the period he met, he was a member of the Church and Education Committee. In 1992, he resigned from the Advancement Party and subsequently met as an independent representative until the 1993 elections. In the same year, he participated in the formation of a new party, the New Future Collection Party, which he led until 1997. In the Church and Education Committee he was in favour of cultural and sporting affairs with great joy, and he showed a great deal of commitment to his work on the Stortinget. He himself expressed appreciation for the opportunity given by the Committee to engage in questions related to our historical background, morals and culture. His political views were strongly ideologically marked and based on a Christian-liberalist basis. It was a goal for him to bring the Christian cultural base more strongly into politics, while at the same time he advocated a liberal market economy. The Christian basis of values combined with economic liberalism was a fundamental element of his political work. Finn Thoresen has been referred to as a modern Haugians. He came from a Pietist home characterized by great social exposure and humanity, and where both parents and grandparents were politically engaged. He always placed great emphasis on the role of the family in society and argued strongly to ensure the traditional position of the nuclear family. He stressed the importance of raising children in tidy family relationships, and stressed that the family was needed to ensure safety, belonging and identity. As a politician, he was both contentious and contentious. When he felt that the Advance Party no longer shared his values, he chose to volunteer instead of trying to reach out with his vision within the party. His views could be controversial, and he continually challenged the political left with his clear opposition to socialist ideology and ideals. As a person he was eloquent, "right on the matter" and with an unusually fresh style. At the same time, he had a great and genuine political commitment and devoted much of his life to active political work. With spontaneous and peculiar personality, he was a clear and profiled politician. We remember Leif Lund and Finn Thoresen with deep respect and gratitude and shines peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e156	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning's meeting continue beyond the regulatory time until noon. 16:00. - It is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1-7 is treated as a whole. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e238	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, and Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e249	Today, the government of Bondevik and the government party will suffer a major defeat in Stortinget, a defeat of $22 billion. It has led them to put forward a proposal that shows a lack of respect for the plurality and - I would say the most - for the plurality of politics. The government party understands that there will be a frame this evening that is $22 billion above their frame. Of these, $10 billion should go by, 10 billion by rail, 1.5 billion for collective purposes, and 0.5 billion by port. In order to prevent a relatively large amount of investment on the railway, they suggest that "the relative increase is about the same for road and rail", of course, to try, for example. The step-by-step game to get multiples for the Workers' Party for their 22 billion dollars and then to relocate from path to road. So loose and unobligatory is not the cooperation in the opposition. We stand by our agreement, and we will ask that proposal No. 4 will be voted on before the various proposals for frameworks - the opposite will make the framework proposals meaningless. So to the point: today we put the framework and guidelines for social policy far into my presence as a retired person. I hope, and believe, that 2006 will become a crossroads and a shift in trade policy - a change from less and less permissive approaches through recognition of the importance of trade, to greater opportunities for business and individuals across the country. I would like to thank the Committee for choosing me as the case spokesman for this important message. It has been some challenging and interesting weeks since the plan was presented in March. We get this evening a decision on a historic promise in the framework. This will be marked throughout the country during the 10-year period. In this context, I would like to remind you that there is a choice between 2004 and 2006, so to speak, a choice. It seems like someone forgot. This setting gives a direction for the future trade policy. The Committee has worked to reconcile views and opinions: in the Committee and in various multiple and minority groups. I'd like to ask the Council to read everything carefully. Here's a lot of good advice to take with you on the road, even though not everyone has a number behind them. I want to draw up a couple of main points as case spokesman. Others from the Working Party will go closer to some of them. The most important thing is the question of framework - that is essentially what it is about. So I'm surprised that the government party and the government council are asking questions about whether the setting here today means something when it comes to the frames. If they think that the national transport plan has nothing to say about what is really going to happen, they should come to the Stortinget with suggestions to wind up the system. It may be that the Right Party and the Christian Party do not have plans to follow up what they promise. The working party will do what we promise. Politics is simply about choosing. The working party chooses to allow more to well-being, road and path. Select a government treasure for the most already existing one. Dear government party: They should have found the offensive tone they had three years ago, when the case spokesperson, Oddvard Nilsen, ran over how inadequate our frames were in relation to the needs. Even these inexhaustible frames, the government has labored to follow up the years after. The Labour Party promised a little less than the Government Party, and with nearly a billion more in the 2004 budget, we are not so far behind our promise. And we have ambitions to move on, to build the country forward. We see that we can't continue to reduce the proportion of the state budget that goes to a commercial event, as we've done in the last 20 years. We have ambitions to secure jobs and busses throughout the country. Here's a road and path a key, that's what we've been hearing from central business people all over the country. For many, it is more important than tax havens. It's basically not private wealth people lack in this country either. Most people have little understanding that they have to drive in ever finer cars on some very bad roads. In order to remedy this, there is a commitment to trade that is going on, not taxation for those who already have the most. In the short term, 2.2 billion dollars a year will provide work to thousands, in the construction sector and in other sectors. It is important in itself at a time when unemployment seems to have stuck to almost 100,000 unemployed. In addition, it is important that we have a better transport supply in a large country with little people, scattered busses and lots of fjords and mountains. The Norwegian railway is in the process of being confused, we can't keep up with what we built 50, 100 and 150 years ago, in a proper way. Now, when the railway is 150 years old, we take the multiples, we take a roof, and it's going to be fast. Then we get a lot of people working, we get an effective expansion, and we get a radically better offer. We get double tracks to Tønsberg, Hamar and Fredrikstad and around the other big cities, and we get important improvements in terms of both security and emergence throughout the country. I slip to a new freight terminal on Ganddal and a new lift for the Jærbanen when the double track can now be advanced. The train requires little space -- it's efficient, it's safe, and it's very environmentally friendly. So we're going to bet now, and we're going to get back to whether we're going to finance it over a couple of years. Trains can rarely bring kids into kindergarten. For this reason, we in the Labour Party will have a road, especially in the districts, but also in the central districts. We have major challenges both in terms of investment, in terms of operations and maintenance, and in terms of racial protection. In our frame we have found space for an increase to other highways with $5 billion, an increase of 32 pst. That's money I think state politicians are looking to distribute for good purposes. The main roads add up to 4 billion, which is also a significant increase. Here we point to important projects that can be advanced and for which new money is to be made available. We will include: E6 and E18 in Eastfold, we follow up with increased loopholes to important parts of the "lottoreckya" in Hedmark and Oppland - 2 - 4 - 6 - 16, we increase the border of the coastal road by 1 billion, and we increase the path to E6 from Trondheim and northwards, to mention something. I also want to mention that we take in the stretch of the Gvammen-Aarhus on the E134 in the planes again, and we increase the frame by 100 million. SEK to Rv 35, as well as is an important way to Gardermoen for those in this country who have the longest way to airport. One billion extra to protect the race is an increase of 50 pst. It can provide many kids with safer school roads and many parents with better night sleep. In the collective sector there is a lot left. We increase the frames by 1.5 billion, including increase the effort of the so-called incentive scheme by 1 billion. Of course, this must be done gradually. The Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party want to review the different rights for collective purposes, and ask for an experiment where the county councils are free to use funds for other national roads and for collective actions themselves. When this happens, the message raises more questions than it answers. Here's what we have to get back to. We increase the frames by half a billion especially to fishing ports and fairways. The government is again proposing to shut down Airports. This time it's Narvik and the offer box from the Payers. The same number of caverns has, among other things, the same number of caverns. rejected this once before and made it quite clear that if we are to reconsider this, it must be done in a good way. It has been ignored by the Council of State, and therefore she gets no again. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party also believe that there is a lot to do to shut down an aerodrome, and that this must be done after a thorough process. Together with SV and the Progress Party, the Working Party asks for a system corresponding to the alternative use of ferries subsidiaries. I ask the Council of State to evaluate this. The right turn continues in the area of trade. This applies now to the postponement of rail passenger services. This is the Workers' Party negative to. We don't want to gamble with security and add the right to social dumping. When it comes to evaluating past competition, because it has a multiple set before, our clear expectation is that equality must be compared to equal. The working party and SV will have a case on environmentally friendly freight transport, port structure and a holistic system of means to achieve the objective of increasing the transport of goods by sea and rail. So some other things: A multiple is critical to the current system of cost-benefit assessments; we do not understand why we have a higher level of calculation rate than our neighbouring countries. That Svindesundsbrua has a positive cost-benefit assessment in Sweden and negative in Norway, do not hang on. This must be reinforced, and so must the method of traffic forecasting. We in the Labour Party do not believe in cost neutrality between modes of transport. On the contrary, we must have the means to achieve what we want. Therefore, we will have the road tax and the electricity charge on the railway, and therefore we will have the VAT on investment in the railway sector removed. The working party is positive for a toll conversion, but believes that the government's proposal is too absolute. We will not close the door to partial toll financing in the districts, and we will have transitional arrangements for projects that have come a long way, for example. Sotra bru. I like to see the outcome of the decision today - the result in the form of action plans based on the majority's decision that quite concretely shows what we can achieve for 22 billion kroner in addition to what the Government has proposed. Also in this field, the option next fall can make a difference. I want to deal with the suggestions that the Workers' Party makes on its own or in teams with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e310	The representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e315	Throughout the 1990s, when the Workers' Party was largely put in power, the journeys went down year by year. Now, the Labour Party claims that they're going to start spending more money on transportation, and they're going to finance this with extra taxes compared to what the Center-Right-Registration stands for. According to the media, they will receive subsidiary support from the other opposition parties. But in the newspaper yesterday, we could read that these tax dollars that they want to spend on the Norwegian people, are already spent three or four times on things completely different from transportation. How does this relate? I'd like to ask you that. Another small question: can we see the results of this in the fall, or should we wait until 2006 before seeing that bet? Is there any reason to expect us to see something in the fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e322	It was probably a bit up and down with the promises in the 1990s, too, but if we go back 20 years, it has been a pretty clear downward trend. Yes, it's a recognition that we need to focus more on how to communicate, that is, we want to prioritise it more. That calculation in the newspaper I think was somewhat exaggerated. So we have a lot of money - only the new 12 billion that the government has promised in tax laws is a lot. In addition, decisions have been taken that we have disagreed with, and perhaps after the next fall, there is a multiple number to look at it again. At least we mean something about it, we have a good anchoring in the group so that we can build the country again, and then we have to, among other things. building roads and railways in a proper way. The plan applies from 2006 - but the Labour Party actually had $1 billion more in the current fiscal year, too, in 2004, and we're also going to fight for it in the next round. But this cooperation applies from 2006 to 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e329	The need for road construction is very great. Unfortunately, there does not seem to be a majority in this Chamber for our excellent proposal for an increase of SEK 75 billion in road construction - but it is the Labour Party that has put forward the proposal that is closest to us. In the debate between the Labour Party and the Right, there is a question of tax relief or non-tax relief. For us it's not like that. My question is: after we now have record profits in oil extraction - 40 billion more than budgeted only this year - will it be inconceivable for the Workers' Party to use some of these billions of oil to put people into work to build roads in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e338	I am aware that the Progress Party and the Labour Party will finance the promise of trade in different ways, and I will be so honest to say that I doubt that we are going to sit in government offices in order for the next fall. But that doesn't mean we can't get to this elevator. So there's four parts that are behind this, which in total can get much more than 50 pst. behind them-- maybe three of them can get it too. I understand that the Council of States is frustrated that she doesn't find the money to do what we're going to adopt today, but then I can invite her into a centre-left collaboration, so let her give all of these taxes and get more to go. But to answer the representative Svendsen, it is quite undisputed for us to spend more oil money. We're going to take the heavy job of re-prioritising to find more money for transportation. So as I see it now, I can't respond positively to it, even though we have had a good cooperation in this process with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e345	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for the work he has done and for having gone a long way to try to get a majority, even though there was initially a great political distance between the parties in the committee. I would also like to say that I am pleased that the Workers' Party has taken some important steps, as SV sees it, in the right direction in connection with this matter. Not least the urgency and the importance that the Workers' Party has put on that we need to get more goods on rail and sea and fewer trailers on the roads. That's what I think is uplifting. I still want to challenge the representative Starrfeld in one area, and this concerns the road development around the big cities. We see in many places that we have cows, and it's screaming for more roads, but isn't it also so that the Workers' Party has to go more inward that we can't build ourselves out of the queue problems around the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e354	I want to thank you for the joke. It always does well, especially when you have worked a lot and hard, and I want to return the joke to the other parties. It has been a good process in which we have been able to work together to find solutions, where there is not a lot of something that the Government or the Department must put in place. We have, in conjunction with SV, asked for a separate case about the transition of goods to the runway and the sea. It's too slow. We need to see if we should do nothing more, if we need more tools than we have today. The working party is both a path party and a road party. The representative Sørensen has previously taken us into an asphalt and concrete gallery. I'm glad we're now showing that we also mean something to the environment by betting on the railway. We think we have to have both a road and a path around the big cities, but it's pretty great as we do now in the West Corridor, that we first build double tracks, and then we see what's left that's going to have to be solved on the road. When we do the opposite, we might be able to take a chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e363	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e367	I believe that the post-war judgment over the period we've been in in the last few years will be that there has been a revolution in transport, a revolution that will give us much better transport, that we will have more money left, and that we have seen the chance of innovation that lies there, and made use of them. We see it in the aviation sector, where we have managed to get better competition. We've got prices down, and we've got an increase in traffic. We see it in the road sector, where we have managed to get more efficiency into the system, both through administrative changes in the management of the state road system and by getting a more real competition where former state road services, no Mesta, can compete on the same lines with other companies. We already see great results from this, both in aviation and on the road side. We've also started on the track side. Today we have two players in the passenger transport on the track, the NSB and the Flytrain. We want more in order to give most people a better offer and to raise the status of the railway and the use of the railways in Norway. In the NTP it is a continuation of this policy that is the government party’s main concern. We get multiple numbers to continue the main features of the structural policies we have pursued over the past few years. Also, over the course of these three years, we have managed to reverse the long-term downward trend that we had over the 1990s, as Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt also mentioned in his article. After the Centre-Right-Registration came into being, we have managed to reverse the trend towards an upward trend, both on the road side and on the track side, and we will follow this up. Even if we get multiples for most of the strategic grips, which are the most important thing in this plan, there's an interesting difference in this setting. The Socialists now say a clear no to continue this modernisation policy. They're going to stop the switch. They want to spend more money, and the money takes them by increasing taxes. There are at least two reasons why the Right will not be included in this. First of all, we want the taxes and charges down, not up. Second, there's pretty strong doubt about this going on, anyway. In the newspaper yesterday, we could read that the Labour Party has already used up these billions several times, and it's completely different from transportation. Then this is not related. The opposition party is a few things about one thing. They're certain they're going to spend more money. But as we've already heard today in that article and the lines that have been before, and as we've also seen in the media before, the parties are both disputing about who is going to pay this and what the money is going to be spent on. Then it must be allowed to call this a relatively fragile compromise. The Labour Party also has some doubts as to whether they should start now, or whether it is not necessary to start now, whether they should perhaps wait until the Labour Party joins the government and the need for employment measures will be significantly greater. With the background that the Labour Party has, with its downward promises over the 1990s, there will be a new policy, and I doubt this would be followed up. Maybe that's how the Labour Party, to write about Sande a little bit, says, "In the morning I'll start a new and better life," I think. So it applies to this plural that it's been talking about here. In the evening post 10 June, I thought we were getting a very clear picture of what we're facing. There we can read some statements from this plurality, which will consist of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the SV. Spokesman for Transport in the Progress Party, Kenneth Svendsen, says: "We're doing this to tie up the Ap. for major road appropriations". That's what the Progress Party says: "that this does not have the status of any agreement, and that the party is free of proportion to whether the party will actually grant more money to the railway." At the same time, SV says in the same article: "The party does not feel obliged to follow the roadblock of the annual budgets." Then I thought this would be a bit serious. If there are a number in the hall today, substitutively or not, where the parties to the agreement do not intend to follow up, I thought they should be so honest that they say clearly whether or not this is the case here. If we go into today's National Transport Plan -- he's the one we're going to be at now -- and if we look at the criticism of the First National Transport Plan, what has been the main criticism of this plan? I have, together with the committee and on my own, traveled around the country up to several times, and 90 pst. of the criticism, that we have created a framework in the plans, and that we have created action plans that can't be followed up. Now, the opposition will do the same once again, knowingly and willfully create a set of multiples that they do not intend to follow up on, push forward an action plan, and give municipalities, counties, inhabitants, business and others the same problem over the next four years that one has had. I think you should think about it before re-creating an action plan that's too high compared to a power to follow up. Of course, the government will also have more money for transportation, it would just be missing. But we've had to take a lot of other steps in this period, both to reduce interest rates and to secure Norwegian jobs, which means that we haven't had so much money to spend. Nevertheless, as a example, we have been able to increase the permissions by about 20 pst. We also want to increase the permissions in the future, but then we want a slightly different priority than what the Labour Party set up. The working party suggests that a relative set should use twice as much on rail as on road. So one increases the same amount in dollars. We are tabling a proposal from the Government Party today that if we are to be able to provide a financial basis for increasing investment in the transport sector in the years to come, we will be making a relatively more effort. Although rail is important, it is quite clear that the challenges on the road are significantly greater if we see the country as a whole, and this will be taken into account by the government. There are more issues than the national transport plan that we are dealing with today, and I will mention a few points in particular. The one thing is the matter of the so-called Imarsund connection on North Moravia, which is a quite revolutionary project, and which is the first of its kind we deal with in this Chamber. There are several things new about that project. Among other things, it's the first time we use savings, state-owned ferry facilities to build a road to build a bridge. The genius and the simple thing about this, which is to put common sense into a system, is that after 15 years, the state is rid of the costs that we would otherwise have on a ferry, and that we are dealing with a marriage, a continental relationship, that will benefit the people in the future, and that will cost nothing extra to anyone. This is a collaboration between a lot of parties, and it's been a huge effort from a lot of people. There's local capital inside. There's toll money in there. There's, as I said before, a ferry ticket inside, and besides a little bit more, just a few million more from a municipal merger. By merging the municipalities of Aure and Tustna, which are relevant in this case, there will be savings that will be used directly to build this bridge. At the same time, the Ministry of Local Affairs has made an extra contribution to top finance this particular facility. I hope that the model that a co-conspirator's committee is in favour of, with which we have worked a lot in principle, and on which we now have a case, can also be used in other contexts in other parts of the country, for the benefit of the inhabitants. Getting rid of a lot of ferries and getting a real-world connection without more costs for both the country and its inhabitants is a very good transport policy. Finally, I have to include a small, local project, as I hope I won't take the word again today. It's the Kviv Road, which a co-conspirator's committee now enters to get started. It is a connecting vein along the coast of West Norway, but at the same time an important part of the regional construction work from the Outer South Sunnmaere to the Inner Northfjord. I want to promote the proposal I just have pink.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e423	The President assumes that you are promoting the proposals that the Right has made either alone or in cooperation with others?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e426	That's absolutely correct. I present the proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party on the subject of the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e431	The representative Petter Løvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e436	Today, the Right must have a bad thing and a bad day. When there's more to say about the Imarsund project than about the Right's policy, they have to have little to do with it. Most of it was under attack. I wonder: Has Right never been involved in treating a long-term plan before? What has been said here can be said against all the plans for the future. One might say that we can only end up with them, because they're not realistic. It is the budget that is realistic. Does the Right not know that the plan applies from 2006 and that perhaps this choice could also be a choice in relation to transport policy? So I just want to say, we have more imagination in terms of modernisation than we think it's just a competitive postponement. Two questions: Is postponing an ideology for the Right, or is it an instrument? What would Right Do If Security Turns Off? I would also like to ask, is that the multiple of its 22 billion kr Right and Christian People's Party want to re-prioritize? In that case, does the representative Løvik think that this hangs on the handle?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e447	I am unable to see any difference between the Imarsund project and the Right's policy. The Imarsund project is good right-wing policy, and we're very happy that we've got a whole committee on this. If the representative Starrfelt listened to me at the beginning of what I said, it was very much about the policy we are pursuing today, which Starrfelt also mentioned in his article. I hope Starrfield understands it, that I don't wrap it so well that she didn't recognize the Right Policy in what I said. So Ausdal Starrfelt asked a very interesting question: Is the start of competition an ideology for the Right? Yes, more or less, for what are we going to put off competition? We want to give those who can give most people the best offer, a chance to give this offer, regardless of whether these are publicly or privately added, Norwegians or foreigners. The most important thing is to give customers, the Norwegian people, a good deal, and it's our ideology that it's the same who makes this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e456	First, I would like to pay tribute to the Government, which has followed the principles of competition and conversion of the Advance Party into a limited liability company, which has been very positive. Unfortunately, it is such that the right falls through when it comes to road appropriations. I want to quote a little bit from Innst. S. No 119 for 2000-2001 on the previous national transport plan: "It must also be a key task to facilitate transport policy assumptions so that existing businesses can continue to find ways of operating in or from Norway, and to stimulate new start-ups in Norway. In an international comparison of localisation factors, Norway is relatively poor, with low investment in transport relative to GDP. A very high level of transport charges weakens our position. When examining the national transport plan, these members propose a significant increase in the allocation for transport purposes." My question is, what's happened in the last four years? Is there so much investment that there is no need for more road construction in this country? Is it unemployment that has gone down so much, as it is said from the committee leader? What has happened since the Right has completely turned around in its policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e470	It is a bit unfair for Svendsen to ask such a question and ask me to explain everything that has happened in these years, in one minute. That's why I hope Svendsen and the president apologize that I have to take this a little superficially. What has happened, and that is the big thing, is that we have laid a foundation - and the Progress Party should have great praise for having supported us in laying that foundation - in order to make a transition to a very large number of areas in the transport sector. It's the one. The second is that, at the same time, we have actually managed to significantly increase the permissions, as Svendsen correctly quoted that we said in the setting in connection with the previous national transport plan that we would do. If we take the road sector, of which I know the representative Svendsen is very busy, then after the government change, we have been able to increase the annual clearance level from the last working party government to what the center-right government now said, by 2 billion kroner per. years. $2 billion per year. There will be a lot of roadway in the years to come. Besides, when we do things more efficiently, we've done a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e486	It is obvious that the Right has a bad day when 90 pst. in the main case this committee is dealing with during the period, the national transport plan. I want to challenge the right in one area. The right, as far as I can see, has had two functions in the transport policy in the years we've been sitting together on the Storting. It is to highlight the needs of business, and then it is to combat the railway effort other coalition partners are trying to achieve. In the last edition of The Economist, it is written about the road pricing that is set in motion downwards in Europe. Switzerland has introduced it. Switzerland collects NOK 5 billion in taxes on trailers that run through the country. Next year, Germany will come with the same system. In Sweden, they discuss it. In the United Kingdom, they do the same thing. What will it look like for Norwegian business if trailers meet this at the border, when we can't get to a railway bet that makes us manage to get goods onto the railway, so that it can be efficient transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e497	One should be careful with percentages in such a case, but about 70 pst. My article went to describe what we stand for, and what we will stand for. But one must be able to see it in relation to the uncertainty that lies in an alternative multiple, in order to really get how good the option we have to offer in the Center-Right-Registration is. The representative Sørensen takes the starting point that SV often does, and that the Labour Party unfortunately follows up, that there is very little investment on the railways in Norway. The fact is that in relation to Sweden, which is the closest and easiest to compare with us, we have, both in terms of the length of the railway network and in relation to the population, a greater investment in the last ten or twelve years than Sweden has had. So, of course, Sørensen can say that we should have a longer network in Norway. But the big difference is that in Norway we have a long coast with a lot of coastal traffic, and it doesn't have the Swedish in the same way as we do. So we have a lot of railway bet, and we've increased it significantly in the last three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e505	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e508	A well-developed transport service is one of the most important factors for a society to function. Without a well-developed infrastructure network, it will be impossible for businesses and individuals to establish themselves and live around the country. National transport plan 2006 to 2015 shall be an instrument to achieve this objective. If the NTP is to be the tool it is intended to be, the different batches of the Storting must follow up their promises and decisions through the annual appropriations for the treatment of the State budget. It has not been done in the current period. There is a wide difference between what each party has promised in relation to the treatment of the national transport plan 2003-2006 and what has been proposed in relation to the annual treatment of the State budget. As I said, in a country like Norway, with long distances and scattered settlements, a high-standard built-up road network will be essential for business to function effectively. Therefore, the Progress Party wishes to give the highest priority to investment and maintenance of the road network. The Progress Party considers the possibility that individual individuals have for the use of cars, both for work and recreation, as positive and as an improvement in the quality of life of individuals. In competition with the railway, the car has a superior competitive advantage. There is mention here of speed, flexibility and not least of economics. The Progress Party believes that the reorganisation of the Ministry of Transport of a Ministry of Transport responsible for land, water and air transport, including ports, airports and transport terminals, will make the priorities between the various sectors simpler and more transparent. Such reorganisation will also make it easier to see the whole of car, rail, boat and air transport, thereby facilitating the complementarity of these modes of transport. The Party of Progress will demonstrate that more supervision has been established, including: Railway Authority and Air Safety Authority. In our view, these inspections should be merged into one monitoring body in order to facilitate the exploitation of the overall flow of information. This transport supervision should not be placed under the Ministry of Transport but should be transferred to another department. The Progress Party will demonstrate that Norway, as a country with long distances and scattered settlements, should, in order to offset the disadvantages of being far from the markets, have a better-developed road network than other countries. Unfortunately, this is the opposite. Norway is far from most European countries. Road appropriations have fallen in real terms over several years. At the same time, traffic growth has been strong and accident rates negative. For the Progress Party, there is a clear link between increased traffic and several accidents on the one hand and less money for road use on the other. The Progress Party therefore wants to support the development of the road network in Norway and improve its maintenance. This will lead to fewer accidents and a more profitable business. In particular, this will have a positive effect on business and the population of District Norway. The progressing party believes that it should be developed as quickly as possible on all roads with annual traffic of more than 10000 cars, with a central part of the four-field motorway. Therefore, we propose that the E18 from Kristiansand to the Swedish border and the E6 between Svinesund and Trondheim be continuously extended to the four-field road with middle parts. This will remove many of the fatal accidents and the many accidents in which people are seriously injured. The progress party will further extend the E6 between Trondheim and Kirkenes to the two-field motorway, with the exception of the routes where the annual traffic refers to the four-field road. The progress party will show that for the West the traffic that goes north-south from Trondheim via Bergen to Kristiansand on E39 is important, but also the traffic east-west from Bergen to Oslo is important. We will therefore bet on a rapid expansion of the E39 without the use of tolls, while Haukelivegen is being severely reduced. This will give industry and individuals in the West a strong boost and strengthen their competitiveness. The Progress Party is concerned that an increasing proportion of investment funds in the road sector are being financed by tolls. The state collects well over 40 billion kroner in various car-related taxes, including VAT on taxes. The Progress Party considers the ever-increasing use of tolls as an additional tax/tax on the car list, which the Progress Party strongly opposes. In the National Transport Plan 2006-2015, the Progress Party will spend SEK 75 billion more on road construction, race protection and road maintenance than is contained in the Government’s NTP proposal for the same period. Without such a commitment, in our view, zero vision is unattainable, and one will see that accident statistics will remain high in the future. In response by the Minister for Transport to question No. 676 of Document No. 15 for 2003-2004 from me, the Minister wrote that one could save 34 lives in traffic per year. years and 48 times less damage to traffic by extending to the centre of the four-field motorway, as proposed by the Contracting Party. That means that we had saved 340 lives over the next ten years and 480 injuries in traffic over the same period. I record that the government parties do not support the Progress Party in this effort to save lives, a bet that even the government says would save the lives I referred to. Such a bet is also necessary for business to be able to convert its local competitive advantage into profits on the holding by transporting its products to the markets at an acceptable price. For the Progress Party, rail can be an effective solution in areas with high population density and limited access to land. I note that there are few such areas in Norway. Therefore, we want to invest to a far greater extent in the construction and maintenance of the road network over investments in the railway network and in the purchase of services from the NSB and other operators on the line. The passenger figures from the various routes also show this by falling sharply in 2003. This shows, in my view, that the railway does not meet the requirements of passengers for means of transport. Express bus companies that have previously been refused an offer to passengers on the basis that the route was parallel to the line are now well covered. This shows that the bus fully competes with the railway. Railway operations are running in deficit for the operator and for the railway works, a deficit that must be covered by taxpayers. Bus operations, on the other hand, do not receive subsidies from taxpayers but are, on the contrary, a contributor to the road network through sky-high charges. The progress party is therefore pleased that it is much easier today to obtain permission to set up bus routes in competition with the train, which was allowed under pressure from the Progress Party. Although it is easier to obtain such a permit today, bus companies wishing to run without grants should not be assessed in the future. The progressing party believes that if passengers choose buses over trains, the stations in these areas should be closed. In the view of the Progress Party, the bus provides a far more flexible route solution for passengers at a much lower price. Some parts of the freight by rail pay road charges. This charge does not apply to all types of transport and does not cover the investment, operating and maintenance costs on the line. The Party considers that there should be no difference between the payment for the use of the infrastructure between the road network and the railway network and would therefore propose that the payment for the infrastructure be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. Competition in air traffic has shown its justification. As low-cost companies have come to and pressured SAS Braathen has increased, prices have also been greatly reduced. It is now possible to fly between parts of the country at reasonable prices. The user charges in Norway to finance airports are among the highest in the world. In order to reduce these user charges, the Progress Party wishes to continue the efficiency improvement that Avinor has achieved until now. In our view, the transformation of the Swedish Aviation Agency into the company Avinor has been a successful act. The operation of aerodromes in Norway shall initially be self-financed. Avinor, who operates most of the flights, imposes different types of user charges on airlines to finance the operation. The Progress Party believes that although some new security charges have been introduced following the attacks on the United States, the conversion of the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company will reduce prices, which will allow for a lower level of charges compared to other countries. The Progress Party considers that the purchase of unprofitable routes must also include costs for the use of short-haul aerodromes and that the flight passengers flying at the parent aerodromes should not pay for the route Stortinget has decided to set up. The Progress Party therefore considers that investment and operation of the Short-Range Network should be financed from allocations from Stortinget. The Progress Party believes that the establishment of private aerodromes is positive and constitutes a positive corrective action to Avinor, and therefore wishes to welcome the re-establishment at Rygge Airport. Norway is a long country with many and long fjords. Boating as a transport source is therefore an important part of Norwegian transport. The Progress Party wants to ensure good conditions for maritime transport. Therefore, we will continue to fight for Norway to have a tax system that will enable shipowners to hire Norwegian seafarers, among others. through a net pay scheme. The party of progress raises safety at sea. It is therefore proposed to increase the commitment to the establishment and maintenance of fairways. Competition will release additional funds to this end. Ferry operations are a natural part of the public road network and are therefore a public responsibility, but private ferry companies should operate in accordance with the tendering principle. Although tenders now come as a natural part of the ferry business, this is too late and too few ferry routes are open to tender. In competition on all ferry routes, society will save large sums of money that can be used to reduce ferry tariffs, thereby benefiting the population and saving business for large costs. For the Progress Party, competition is a means of getting the best possible product out of the least possible money. Competition is very suitable in the field of transport. Therefore, the Progress Party wishes to use as much competition as possible. The Party considers that the offer of public transport is to be made by private undertakings on the basis of market economy principles, at real prices and with sound competition between transport undertakings. Where, for social reasons, it is important to maintain unprofitable routes, they shall always be offered. In the vote, there is no majority for any of the proposals that have been put forward. The government's proposal is what gives the least to the future effort, while the Workers' Party is giving the most, when one ignores the Progress Party's reasonable investment of SEK 75 billion to over ten years. I am aware that the Workers' Party's proposal for appropriations also leads to an increase in railway investment. The Progress Party believes that the effort made by the Workers' Party on the ground could have been used much more rationally in road construction. When there is now a majority in favour of spending more money on the track, the Progress Party is pleased that the funds will be used in areas where the Progress Party wants more effort to be made, i.e. where population concentration is highest. But when the situation is as it is, the Progress Party will go a long way towards getting more money for road construction, both to save more lives in traffic and for business to get better transport conditions. On this basis, I would ask the President to put the vote to the vote so that it will be possible for the Progress Party to give its subsidiary support to the proposal which has the opportunity to be adopted and which provides the second most money for road construction, namely the proposal of the Labour Party. I'm addressing the suggestions I've referred to. Of course, this applies to all transport matters, from No. 1 up to and including Nos. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e563	The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, has asked the President for a type of vote which the President will of course try to meet. The representative Kenneth Svendsen has also addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e570	The progress party is out of the way. I know that. The installation was very good at it. The representative Svendsen used it to save lives as an argument. Trains are also a very good argument when it comes to saving lives, to traveling by train is really good. The more we get from road to path, the more lives we save. Why won't the Progress Party save lives that way? I record that Alvheim has ours in Telemark and promise people in the Eidanger tunnel. Then you can't get the money that will be the result of the frames today, just air money. There must be real money if the Progress Party is to keep it they promise. I meet many people from the Progress Party who are busy with trains - even on the train I meet them. I'm asking you this with a calculation rate. The Progress Party shall propose the adoption of a decision. Then the Progress Party must be able to do something that we cannot do. Does the Progress Party believe that it is up to the politicians to make decisions? If they think so, why do they only do it when it's road, and not when it's road and air transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e581	The Progress Party is particularly concerned about saving lives in traffic. That is why we are proposing the large expansion of SEK 75 billion, with four-field roads with middle parts all over the country. So, of course, if you want to force people to use the railway, it's possible to do that by cutting down on the road standard and increasing the capacity and service of the railway network. But now all the experience shows that people don't want to travel by rail. We saw a big drop last year, 15 pst. on the Vestfold course, if I am not very wrong, and the same thing on Bergensbanen. People pick up the railroad and go over to the bus as a collective solution, or a private car. Then we want to facilitate the means of transport that people themselves want to use, not what politicians want people to use. With regard to the calculation rate, when we have such a cloudy level as we do in Norway, and the different administrations in the departments don't want to do anything about this, politicians have to take action to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e590	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have joined the Advance Party on a triangle. This majority increases the NTP framework by NOK 22 billion. The agreement is based on the conclusion that the Progress Party is swallowing 33 billion more than the main proposal of the Progress Party. Then it turns out that the Progress Party does not feel bound by the railway component in the consensus, which means that there is no majority in the opposition to increased frames. We are left with a pitiful desire to reject the Government's framework proposal plus a late as many as in the opposition. It's de-valuating the Storting as an institution and leading people behind the light. Does the representative Svendsen feel comfortable voting subsidiaryly or primarily for a framework he does not know exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e595	The representative of Kjästad asked a good question. The need for road transport in this country is enormous both for industry and for the population. It kills over 300 people per day. year of traffic in this country. The calculations we've been given by the Ministry of Transport show that a road construction effort at the level we've been doing would save 340 lives and 480 injuries over the next ten years. So the question was, when the Progress Party gets the opportunity to help support a 10 billion extra out of the way over the next ten years, are we going to give up that opportunity? My answer is obviously no. We are going to support proposals for money on the road throughout this period, to ensure that fewer and fewer people are killed and injured in traffic. That's our first and primary goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e604	The progress party has found in an excellent way that they are not a railway party. I still think that the railway hate is starting to crack a little bit in the Progress Party. I have recorded some deviations where the Progress Party is actually positive to the railway. We thank the majority for completing the Oslo-Ski route within the planning period, a route Progress Party clearly supports. I have also seen that the Progress Party has been locally out there supporting even more. The representative Alvheim has even gone so far as to say that when it comes to building the Eidanger tunnel, it's about life. I have also registered that Peter N. Myhre in Oslo more than would like the Alnabanen to go. I would like to ask the representative Svendsen: is there a small sign of a railway revolution in the Progress Party, or is this a random outcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e611	Now, the Progress Party is not known for having to search with light and light every time there is a revolution in the Party. The party of progress is not in principle against the railway. We don't have any hate for the railroad. But when we weigh the benefits and disadvantages of rail against the benefits and disadvantages of road, we have come to the conclusion that road construction is the most effective, that is what gives the most back to the population and to the business world. Then we simply think it is unreasonable to bet on the mode of transport that provides the worst-counting, both in terms of costs and benefits back to society. That's why we're on our way. It is, of course, the case in the Progress Party as in all other parties that different representatives have different views. But in a democratic party, the majority decides, and it is the national meeting that adopts the programme, and it is clear that the Progress Party is a road party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e620	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e623	Transport policy intervenes in people's everyday lives. The vast majority of us are exposed to transportation every day. It can happen in many ways. There may be joy in travelling and experiencing new places, there may be irritation over the delay in the t-railway or bus, ferries that cannot be added to the port, or airports that are closed due to bad weather. Or it may be the frustration I feel every Friday when I dry black dust from the window frames at home on Grünerløkka. Everything is transportation. We experience that in the Committee on Transport, because everyone is concerned about transport. I've also learned during the period I've been sitting here, that the sum of all the good wishes is not going to be a good transport policy. For SV, it has therefore been important to set some clear objectives that we are going to pursue in the field of transport policy. I would like to use my contribution to talk about SV's transport policy on the basis of the six objectives: road safety, environment, regional and district policies, to get more goods by rail and sea, to make the transport system accessible to everyone, and to have equality in the transport sector. Let me start with road safety. All transport must be safe. SV supports the work on the zero vision, that accidents with fatal or life-long injuries should not occur in traffic. It is road traffic that has the most serious accidents. We have to understand that even though the number of deaths since 1970 is halved, despite the fact that road traffic has tripled over the same period, the accident rate is still too high. We must also bear in mind that Norway is a leading country in road safety work. Only Sweden is as good as us internationally. But if we're going to get the number of accidents down, we're going to have to prioritize harder. Therefore, we have said that the main objective of our road priorities should not be to get more money back, as the government parties like to say, but that we should have more road safety left for the money we spend on the road. This means that we need to think about measures for walking and cycling, the improvement of road-hazardous routes, the construction of middle parts, the transition from car to collective transport and fewer trailers on the roads and more goods on the road and sea. The second main objective we have set is environmental protection. Environmental objectives must guide the priorities we pursue in the transport sector. Plans and priorities must be designed to meet national and international environmental objectives. Greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector are increasing, and alongside the petroleum sector, the fastest increasing. We believe that the transport sector must take its mandatory share of climate commitments. It involves a strong prioritisation of public transport and rail at the expense of many new quadruple motorways. But it also means a strong commitment to alternative fuels and zero-emission cars. I am surprised that a government that has a Minister of Transport from the Left Party has not even stated in the National Transport Plan how climate change emissions will increase as a result of the plan, and that after just two years ago in the Climate Action Communication it was ambitiously said that a transport policy would effectively contribute to reducing climate change emissions. The national transport plan does exactly the opposite, as assessed by the trade unions. It contributes effectively to the increase of climate emissions from the sector. Air pollution is a problem in many cities. The measures contained in the national transport plan will mean that in ten years' time I will still be drying my window screen black dust on Grünerløkka if new measures are not taken to achieve the objectives of reducing air pollution. Noise is a problem for a lot of people. The objective of reducing the noise load for people is not achieved by the measures set out in the national transport plan, and new, powerful instruments are needed. We want that goal to be achieved, and we want the government to come back with a plan for it. We will also stress that pristine nature and biodiversity are resources that we need to protect. There are 3,000 species on the red list of species threatened or vulnerable in Norway, and if we are to be able to take care of them, we must take care of their habitats. Wetlands are examples of such habitats. They are vulnerable, and road and rail development must therefore take place in such a way as to preserve valuable nature. Coastal oil transport is a new threat to biodiversity in Norway, and we need to take action to dramatically reduce the risk it poses. The third objective is that we want living districts and good regions. Transport policy has a special role to play in achieving this. Today's housing pattern also requires that. Decentralised settlement is a prerequisite for creating sustainable management of natural resources, both because work requires closeness, and because sustainable management requires experience-based knowledge about local environmental conditions. And to maintain the structure of housing and business, a well-developed communications network is a necessary framework condition. These are challenges that require a higher priority for rural transport than today. We would also point out that the safety, promotion and level of physical activity of children in very many communities and communities is limited by the existing transport infrastructure. A changed focus on this, with increased bets on walking and cycling routes, is important. Rasfaren is also large along many Norwegian roads, and it is important that we get an increased bet in that area. In the case of goods over from planes and road to runway and sea, we have set this up as a main goal. We won't solve any of the basic questions if we can't get to it. Large trailers on the roads are certainly no one who wants more of them. We want fewer trailers on the roads, also because it leads to road-hazardous situations. In addition, of course, it leads to increased emissions when so much goods are to be carried along the road. We believe that we need to look around, and see that we get road pricing in Switzerland, in Austria, in Germany, in Sweden, and we need to organise business transport in such a way that exports can go on the railways, so that one does not face the obstacles in the future. That's why we also have a much stronger stake on the railways than the majority of people add up to. We're also willing to use road pricing to get to that. We believe that when the rest of Europe does that, there is no way out for us, and as it is better to be early out than to be taken with your pants down when Sweden introduces road pricing or taxes on trailers across the country. Transport shall be accessible to all. We are pleased that a joint committee sets up transport as a fifth main objective of transport policy. Our last goal is equality. There is a difference between women's and men's travel patterns. Women travel more complicated, spend longer time and choose more collectively than men do. Norwegian transport has been planned by men for many years, and we believe that there is a lot to get a woman's focus on transport policy. It shall be equally natural for transport policy to be set up to meet the needs of women, as it is intended to meet the needs of others. We have seen that if we are to achieve these political objectives, we will not be able to cope with the framework proposed by the Government for transport. We want to increase the frame by 43.5 billion kroner in the decade. That's what we do when we make a big effort on the railways. Over the ten years, we're going to spend 30 billion dollars. This means that we can get a modern, efficient passenger transport, and we will be able to get measures that allow us to get goods across from road to track, fewer trailers on the road, more goods on the track and at sea. We focus more on roads in the districts than on central roads, and we focus on racial protection. We are also more involved in walking and cycling, because walking and cycling are important forms of transport that are often underestimated in the broad context. And we want a strong commitment to public transport in the big cities. Then I would also like to say that we need to see more internationally and get good communications to our neighbouring countries. Finally, if our proposals for frameworks - as I have described, and as I believe they add to the best transport policy - fall, we will vote in a subsidiary way on the proposals of the Workers' Party. Representatives from the government parties have been intriguing about this today. I just want to say that what becomes the reality when the plan comes into force in 2006 is determined by the choice. I think that's fair. I think it's fair when Kenneth Svendsen says he's betting on the way, and it's fair when I say I'm betting on the railroad. It's actually the way the election's going to decide what to bet on. I will end by saying that if we are to be able to achieve an environmentally friendly, modern social policy for the future, we must have cycling policy on wheels, pedestrian policy on legs and rail policy. Then it's going to be all right. Then I would like to address the suggestions that SV is alone about or together with others in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e662	The representative, Heidi Sørensen, has taken up the proposals she referred to and has also given an explanation of vote. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e667	SV is of the opinion that one cannot build itself out of the major queue problems, and it is not difficult to agree with, but it means that not building roads is the option in those heavy traffic areas. And that's what SV means. In their proposal, they propose to take money from the major road projects in the East and around Oslo and use them in the districts. A good example is the county of Northland, which gets in buckets and buckets with regard to road, in the case of trains, in the case of port, and in the case of airport. And then my question is, is there a good answer to the challenges of the Oslo region? Is it a good national priority for transport policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e672	Let me first say that I am extremely pleased that the representative Froyn underlines what I was a little uncertain about whether the representative Ausdal Starrfelt responded equally clearly in his reply in his reply, namely that we cannot build ourselves out of the transport problems and the traffic problems around the big cities. So it's right that we prioritize a little bit differently. We focus much more on public transport and much more on rail, especially around Oslo, but also around the other big cities. I think that gives a more efficient, more modern and safer transport than we can do by building four-field motorways that feed more traffic into the Oslo basin, where pollution is already great. On our road priorities in the big cities, I would like to say the following: Environmental tunnels, i.e. road projects that do not increase capacity, we stand together, because we have to pay for some of the things that have been misguided transport policy in the past. And we are in charge of the district effort we have in Northernland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e681	SV must have praise for one thing: when they want something, they talk reasonably evenly about it--railway, rail and rail. And that's okay. They say they want traffic across the track to free up space on roads. It helps little when there is already such a bad standard on the roads as it is. Vestre Toten municipality is Norway's largest industrial municipality, which exports almost all production. The municipality has both road and track. Has SV asked the companies in the industrial park and the industrial municipality why they prefer road ahead of track, or are business interests less important for SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e688	The answer is yes. We've asked. And the answer is that the railway is not flexible enough, that the railway is not going fast enough, and that it is too insecure. So we've gone a little bit further. We have asked another question. We have asked questions to the Railway Agency and to CargoNet about what is going on for the railway to become competitive on freight, because that is the goal. And then they say they need a better infrastructure, so you can stop stopping and delays, and that's what we're betting on. In the last issue of The Economist, I have recorded the road pricing that is now happening across Europe. NOK 3 per year. km pay the biggest trails through Switzerland. Next year Germany will come, and Sweden will discuss the same. It is not in the interests of industry that we should not have a railway operation on goods, that we should drive trailers and be met with a trailer tax on the Swedish border and start with a transhipment to the railway then. We also need to be involved in that railway operation. If not, we're going to hang out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e695	National transport plan is a priority tool, where different transport projects need to be weighted against each other. Of course, SV also has to do that. In the case of SVs, it essentially means that they are betting on railway solutions before road operations, and we have heard that repeatedly now. We don't doubt that. But then, allegedly, the agreement with the Workers' Party and the Advance Party comes, and then there may be a little line change. The question is then: Is it possible to solve the issue of credibility for SV at this point when, in the evening post on 10 June this year, we read that the agreement lasts for 24 hours - if we are to believe what it says. Will SV support the development of the Labour Party and the Progress Party as set out in this plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e702	I have to say that I am a little disappointed with the line from the government parties in this round. I had enjoyed a line where one attacked SV to spend as much money on the road as the Right in their primary proposal. Unfortunately, that attack did not come, but I was tempted to comment on it anyway. When we vote subsidiaryly for the Labour Party's proposal, it is because, overall, it is better than the proposal put forward by the Government, because it is more for rail and more for public transport. So the representative says it lasts for 24 hours. That's not right. The action plans to be drawn up shall be drawn up in the light of the proposal for which it is a majority. But then there's a choice, and then it's up to the voters to put together a big deal that will lead the transport policy they want, and the voters will know that they're voting for the SV, they're voting for a big stake on the railway, and that's the promise I'm going to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e709	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e715	National transport plan is a document of great interest, not only among politicians and stakeholder organisations, but most of the people who rely on a good communication system to make their daily lives intertwine. Transport policy is about making everyday life simpler and safer for people and making it easier for people to live on throughout our vast country. That is why transport policy is so important, and therefore transport issues should get more attention in this house than they often do! In March the Government submitted a proposal for a national transport plan for the period 2006-2015. In the plan, the Government proposed to spend NOK 192.5 billion on road, rail and the purchase of airport services during the decade. The government shows that it wants to bet more on commerce than the Stoltenberg government did. The aim of the Christian People's Party is for Norway to become a leading country in terms of safe and environmentally friendly transport. There are still too many people who are seriously injured or killed in traffic. Therefore, it is important that the Government actively follows up the work on the zero vision. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the Government wants to pursue an active environmental policy in the transport sector. Transport causes major local, regional and global environmental problems. In order to cope with Norway’s Kyoto commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it is also necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. In this roll-out of the national transport plan, too, the economic framework has been the subject of considerable debate. The government's frame is $1 billion more per. years than the Workers' Party would use when the government of Stoltenberg sat by the power. The plan's framework proposal is 370 million. kr higher per. years than those granted on average over the last three years. Although the Government has substantially increased the framework in relation to the previous plan and in relation to the actual appropriations under changing governments in recent years, the opposition parties have gone high on the track and criticised the framework. The Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party have gathered together on something they themselves call a historical commitment to transport. But the truth is that they have gathered in pure populism about an air lock that will weaken confidence in politicians in general and in national transport plans in particular. There is hardly any agreement between the Workers' Party's proposal to spend SEK 22 billion more on transport and the party's ability and willingness to follow this up in the annual budgets. And without such a follow-up, these air billions are only suitable for creating expectations in people that politicians cannot follow up later on. The so-called historical bet becomes even more strange when you read the Evening Post last week. There, SVs Heidi Sørensen says that the party is strongly opposed to road betting, but wants more money for the railway. The Progress Party's Kenneth Svendsen says that the party is strongly opposed to railway bets, but wants more money to go. To the evening post, Heidi Sørensen says that SV does not see itself obliged to follow the roadblock of the 22 billion kroner in the coming budgets, while Kenneth Svendsen states that his party does not consider itself bound to support the railway operation. If the two parties are to be taken seriously, it is certainly not necessary to take the 'historical bet' on transport particularly seriously! We politicians need a national transport plan as a planning and priority tool. Then it is important that we do not destroy this tool by setting up a framework that is neither will nor ability to follow up afterwards. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government of the National Transport Plan provides for a strategic expansion of important tribal road sections in central districts, while maintaining the focus on the road network in the districts. The major transport years E6 and E18 have major safety and promotion challenges. The government has already done a great deal to improve this on E6 and E18 through Eastfold, where road activity will lead to better traffic flow, and to fewer people being seriously injured or killed. E6 now stands northwards and E18 in Westfold and between Grimstad and Kristiansand. By the end of 2009, possibly somewhat earlier, the four-field motorway will be extended throughout Eastfold and from Oslo to Tønsberg. This investment will benefit residents and businesses throughout the country. I am also pleased that the Government will increase the appropriations for other national roads by 200 million. In the light of the proposals made by the transport operators, all the counties have increased their scope. The Committee is now in favour of identifying all aspects of the possible expansion of Hardangerbrua. There is a lot of local pressure, but still there are uncertainties in the matter. In particular, the environmental impact must be assessed; it must also relate to costs and re-establishment of routes of administration. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important that the racial security item has increased significantly in relation to previous appropriations. Christian People's Party is a railway party. It is therefore gratifying that the attitude is marked by a broad political consensus that the railway should have an important role in the future transport system. All lots, except the Advance Party, want the railway to take a greater part of the transport. That's a good promise! The national transport plan contains important investments for the railway. In particular, the expansions around Oslo, Bergen, Jären and Westfold are important in order for the railway to become more competitive where it has the most pre-requisite, i.e. in populace struts. I would also like to highlight the development of the Givingåsen tunnel and the Haug-Onsøy section in Eastfold as important railway operations. In addition, it is positive that the Government is going in to start the expansion of the Eidanger tunnel during the period. The Eidanger tunnel is an important project and must be realised if the railway is to have a future as a means of transport in Grenland, and perhaps in the long term in the South. The national transport plan is very positive for my home state of Eastfold. Eastfold is one of the winners of the plan, both through major road improvements on E18 and E6 and through the development of the Eastfold Railway. These developments are of national interest because large parts of the competitive economy depend on transporting their goods through Eastfold on the roads that exist. A civil aviation offer is also important for business in Eastfold. Therefore, it is very gratifying for us that there is now a majority in the Committee which is positively prepared to establish a civil airport at Rygge. Smoke civil airport will have a large impact field and will have a major impact on residents and businesses in south Akershus, Eastfold and north Bohuslän. I have to admit that I am disappointed with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which would not be in favour of the comments on Smoking now, but instead proposed to impose new charges that would make the establishment of civil aviation on Rygge even more difficult. Finally, it is also useful for us in our region to note that, in order to solve future challenges related to the inner Oslo soil and freight transport in this region, there is a strong wish in this setting that Borg port together with Drammen and Grenland must be seen in this important future transport of goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e757	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e761	The representative Holten commented on the pluralization and called it an "airlock". In my words, I have almost one answer: the government party is afraid of a "terror." But the questions that I had are two concrete ones, and the first one is on proposal No. 4, from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, where it's called: "The size asks the Government to assume that the relative increase will be about the same for road and rail, if during the planning period there will be higher annual budgetary frameworks than the St.meld planning framework. [[2003-2004]] No 24 Is the Christian People's Party proud and happy to treat the great majority in such a way? The second question is: Isn't not the Christian People's Party happy with the help of the majority to fulfill the promise made by the Prime Minister at Lesja, about the development of walking and cycling roads along the E136? Why is the Christian People’s Party outside that remark?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e775	To start with Sigrun Eng's last point, it is clear that what is happening there is a need for an increase in road betting on Lesja. We consider this to be a smaller amount, which we are not talking about in the context of NTP, but it is natural that we come back to it in the annual budgets. There is therefore nothing to do in this case, and there is a clear message about it also sent to the municipality of Lesja. When it comes to issues relating to whether we do not respect the distribution that the majority wants in road and rail, it is clear that we respect that, but we want from the Government to give a signal about how we want to dispose of if there is an increased framework in the transport sector. That's why we've taken that note.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e782	The national transport plan emphasises that competitive outsourcing, privatisation and liberalisation should form the basis for the organisation of the transport sector. It's in the NTP: "The government will continue to develop more market-oriented infrastructure development, operation and maintenance in all transport sectors". Earlier today, we have heard representatives from the Right and the Progressive Party give each other credit for having been able to carry out a revolution in the transport sector, and that is, of course, this privatisation and liberalisation. The Christian People's Party's proposal for a programme for the next election period states that the Christian People's Party will oppose the competitive outsourcing of rail passenger transport. Does this mean that someone has now put his foot down in the Christian People's Party? My question to Holten is: is there any border in the Christian People's Party in relation to liberalising and postponing Norwegian commerce?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e794	I don't think there's going to be any doubt among those who sit as members of the Committee on Transport, that we constantly experience that there's a very tight framework, that there's always a struggle about the projects, and that for that reason we always need to look with lights and lights to find out how we can manage to get more for the money we have at our disposal. That is the reason why we have now, for a period of time, taken steps to create a form that will give more money for each of the heads both on the railway and on the road, namely by putting off competition. There are tight frames, and then we have to have more. We've also said that we want to gain experience to see how we're going to move forward in terms of rail competition. This will happen initially on the Gjøvik track and then on the other two mentioned paths. When you refer to the Christian People's Party program, I just remember that it's not adopted, it's a proposal that's in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e803	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e806	The centre party thinks it's necessary to increase the bet on transportation. The commitment to good communications is an important commitment for the construction, development and exploitation of resources across the country. If we're to be able to use the whole country, good behavioral provision is entirely decisive. It is important to see the link between a good and profitable business and the need for a well-functioning infrastructure. Increased investment in transport could provide the basis for increased value creation and profitability in parts of the country that are currently struggling with poor communications and distance costs, which are a negative factor in economic development. It is the public's responsibility to make sure that all parts of the country have a good and modern communications network. This requires a varied bet and a differentiated policy on trade. In rural areas, the development and improvement of the road network must be a priority, in addition to the maintenance of rail provision. It is important to maintain a good national road transport service, with the repair of ports and fairways. The long distances we have in the country often lead to aircraft becoming the most important means of transport over long distances. For urban and urban areas, increased efforts are needed on public transport to solve environmental problems and other challenges related to traffic development. The railways play an important role in achieving good collective provision. Although the public has the primary responsibility for well-developed communications, there have been many places of great willingness from the local population to take part in the cost of local projects. Many places have led to more projects being carried out faster than they would otherwise have been. When the option is between tolls and a project is delayed for a long time, there are many who choose tolls, even if no one does so without feeling the pressure that the project should be carried out. In its alternative arrangement for the NTP, the centre has added 20 billion more DKK to Chapter 1320 State Road Service during the NTP period. Some of this increase in bets will be applied to the central part of the main roads. It is important that the transit years in the country have a good standard. However, much of the value creation and much of the raw material resources are found in districts that are not adjacent to the tribal roads. The same also applies to export-righted businesses. In order to provide the best possible conditions for the export right to business and to exploit the potential for industrial development in all parts of the country, it is necessary to strengthen efforts on the rest of the national road network. We don't get a coherent transport year without a good standard both on tribal roads and on other national roads. In the Central Party, we also believe it is important to put a search light on the security of those who travel on the roads. The zero vision that no one should be killed or seriously injured must be at the root of the priorities. In this context, it is important to consider different measures, which do not need to be costly. An important measure to increase road safety for road users is also to bet on racial protection. Fortunately, although there are not as many people who are killed in foxes every year, it leads to a great deal of race risk for those who are going to travel on race-riding routes. In the central part of its structure there is also a strengthening of road maintenance. We know there's a two-digit number in the aftermath of road maintenance. It's a bad economy to neglect road maintenance. The maintenance needs to be increased if one is to maintain the same road capital, and without a stronger commitment to maintenance, the total bill is only increased and increased. This also leads to problems for road users and increases costs especially for business. The main roads are a natural part of the road. The aim of the Central Party is that national road ferries should be free of charge, as they are in our neighbouring countries. The government has added the same amount to the purchase of services for the next 10 years as today. In order to maintain the same quality and scale of supply, the Government has proposed that there should be an improvement in efficiency and that supply outsourcing should be used more and more frequently for years to come. The hope of the Government is that this will bring lower costs. I'm not sure this will give you the big savings that the government is making. Among other things, the possible effect of the offer release will not occur until several years have passed. The offer is to be illuminated and the work is to be put into action. In addition, we also know that the reduction in the number of ferries in parts of the year or parts of the day, as proposed by the Government, has led to an increase in the number of cars and passengers remaining on routes where this has been completed. The centre party has therefore added more money for the purchase of national road ferry services. This can be used to keep layers or improve the availability of vacations, to increase the frequency, to give more night trips or to reduce the price of holiday tickets. The center part will also increase the frame to the railway. Here, too, there is a need for extra resources both for maintenance and for investment. The railways are an important part of public transport in the most populous parts of the country. The railway also has an advantage when transporting large quantities of goods over long distances. The railway system has created a plan for the use of extended frames beyond its proposal by the Government. The centre party believes that the added framework that we propose should be able to be used in line with the proposals made by the Railway Agency. It is also important to pay greater attention to maritime transport. In order to reduce the pressure on the road network, it is important to have a greater share of road and sea transport. The central part of the project therefore introduces an increased framework for the Coastal Works, in order to improve ports and ensure the labelling of the rentals. The airport structure has often been the subject of affairs in the Committee on Transport. A majority in Stortinget have previously decided that we in NTP would have back detailed information and an assessment of the situation in the entire aviation sector in Norway. This was also done in the same decision for concrete elements that should be included in the distribution. The government has not followed up on the request from Stortinget. Moreover, the Central Party has not supported the Government's proposal to close Narvik Airport and the offer route at Leirin. In the spring, the Committee on Transport has also reported on the activities of Avinor. This is the first time such a message will be produced after Avinor has become AS. I am pleased that Avinor’s responsibility as infrastructure manager is so strongly underlined, which requires a stronger political governance of Avinor than is usual for state limited liability companies. I am also pleased that a majority of the Committee does not object to the deficit at regional airports being covered by state purchases and cross-subsidies from the parent airports. In recent times, it has been found that there is no equality between the VAT legislation on rail and road. In the context of NTP, it has also been found that airport investments are not treated in the same way as road investments. The majority of the committee, in which the Central Party is involved, has therefore asked for a review of the VAT regime for all modes of transport. I am glad that in that note we have taken on all forms of transport and not just looked at road and road. If we go back 10 to 15 years in time and look at the budget for social security, compared to today, with some variations from year to year, it's almost the same sum for social security purposes. At the same time, total government expenditure has increased. In other words, trade in its part of the state's total expenditure has fallen sharply. Safferdsle has been a balancing post. This is going to be totally wrong when we know that there is a good transport policy that can be with and develop the country and get to the value creation in mainland Norway that is important in the future. It is also a paradox that we have free capacity in the construction sector, without using these free hands to carry out tasks that are only waiting to be completed. It must make sense to put free hands into work. There is a difference between using free hands and investing large sums if we had a tight labour market. I've been using this article mainly to talk about the Center Party's goals with the transport policy in the future, about the Center Party's alternative to the framework and distribution over the next ten years. But I see that the Central Party's proposal can be downgraded when we're going to vote later today. I would therefore like to signal that the Central Party will then vote subsidiaryly for the proposal that is closest to the Central Party's proposal, that is, the Labour Party's proposal. I'm glad we're getting a vote today that shows that a majority in Stortinget wants an increased frame of action. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that the Centre Party is about. The proposals in which the Central Party is involved have already been recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e848	The representative Jorunn Ringstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e853	The Central Party and the Working Party have mostly agreed in this setting. I searched through and found out that the Center Party is in two plurals that the Workers' Party is not in, and that is true of the City Ship's Tunnel and Road Tunnel through Ulriken. I'm not going to ask you that, because it's okay. I'd like to ask you about a free national road ticket. In Sweden, they also have free routes, although they are likely to change, in the sense that they also receive tolls every now and then. That was a good argument, and that's a good argument, that when you don't pay on another national road, you don't have to pay for a national fare. Now we're building bomb projects across the whole country, mostly supported by both the Center Party and the Labour Party. Does the Center Party think it makes sense to have a free national road ticket, just as it was a few years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e862	There should be no less reason to work for free travel by road today than it was several years ago. I also remember that Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt has had his party in my home country and has the same goal as what I have stated that the Center Party has. If we go in and look at what people use to pay for the national road trip and tolls, we see that the most typical ferries use a pretty large sum per. built-in to pay for part of the road, namely the ferries. The fact that one has received several toll projects means that there are exactly the same states that get an increased load. Not only do they have to pay for the ferries, but it's also in the same counties that we find a lot of toll projects, so that the total load is just extra large. So I don't see any context here -- that there's another user on tolls, there's going to be nothing to prevent the highways from being free.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e869	The representative Jorunn Ringstad has a tall but concerned media profile on the pioneer project Stad ship's tunnel. We talk a lot about City Ship Tunnel as a national project. Government parties also have a regional perspective, seeking creative fissures. In addition to the government's framework, the Workers' Party has these 22 airy billions, the Center Party has 30 billion, and the Voice Comrade Progress Party has 75 of the same variety. Not one of these airy billions of the majority shall go to the construction costs of the City Tunnel - not a single building crown! The question is then: does not the Centre Party and their comrades' national project need funding at all during the ten-year period?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e876	It is very interesting that it is just the representative Sverre Hoddevik who asks questions about the City Ship Tunnel. I have participated in some election campaigns in my home country, where the representative Sverre Hoddevik has also participated. There is no doubt that in previous election campaigns, City Ship Tunnel has just been one of the heart issues of the Right in Sogn and Fjordane. Now, when you look at what Right has done to the government when it comes to this project, you might say that it's pretty good to put it in a drawer. There is only one left to lock that drawer. When we look at what's in the government's message, it's to transfer responsibility to the two states that are involved in this matter, namely Sogn and Fjordane and Møre and Romsdal. But this is not a project for just the two states. It is true that the project will be useful also for these states, but with the ships that go along the coast -- cargo ships, fishing boats and other vessels that can go through the intended City of the Ship Tunnel -- this will mean as much for other parts of the country as for the exact states that are in charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e884	It is true, as Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt said in his reply, that in very many areas the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party have signed up in the setting of this plan. In sum, there is a different rate of policy on transport from that of the government parties. But in one area, the Center Party does not agree with us. This applies in relation to the proposal on national ports. We have 47 municipal ports along the coast. The Government proposes that ten of these should be designated national ports. But funds are not proposed to build them up. Means are not proposed to transfer more goods from road to sea. Therefore, the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party propose to postpone this issue, and will ask for a new case to the Stortinget where this is discussed more thoroughly. But the Center Party won't be in on that. Does this mean that the Central Party is satisfied with the Government's proposals in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e891	The debate on the port problem in the country has been going on for a very long time. New proposals are still being made, both in the name and in the type of ports that should be in the different categories. We have now been presented with a proposal, and a lot of people outside are asking that there should be peace soon. It is clear that some areas in the country want their ports to have been among the national ports, others are well-accompanied with what is leading. When the Center Party doesn't want to be involved in asking for a new case and a new review, it's because the port structure needs to be calm. That's exactly what a lot of people are asking for. Because even though they may not have received it exactly as they want, they are asking us to finish the debate on the ports soon. Otherwise, I agree that there are no funds in there. The centre party might also have wished that the proposal contained means of development. But we have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e900	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e903	When, on 15 February 2001, the Stortinget handled the first national transport plan, I underlined in my speech that for the Left, it had the following main objectives in the management of that plan: strong collective effort in urban yellow stripe on the roads of District Norway, focusing on road safety and access conditions On the left, we believe that we have achieved our main objectives when the Cooperation Government proposes a national transport plan for 2006-2015 with the following main objectives: increasing the emphasis on road safety, both on land and on water, in air and on rail-enhanced access to and between regions to promote bus and business development in all parts of the country through environmentally friendly urban transport, with reduced use of cars and increased public transport more efficient transport systems, with increased use of competition, in order to improve the transport of money through transport systems accessible to all, and a transport service that enables all to live an active life; One thing is the financial framework that a provider has at its disposal. The left believes that when managing the national transport plan, the most important thing is that a clear statement is made about what one will prioritise within the framework that will be agreed at any time in the various state budgets. Often, there is too much focus on the level of the frame itself, rather than on the priorities on which the various parties want to use the frame. The left believes that this national transport plan provides the basis for a vision for the future transport sector to which the Left can fully join. We want cities with cleaner air, less traffic, better public health and that more people travel collectively. Our vision is that the number of people killed and injured in traffic is going down considerably from 2005 to 2025, both because traffic years have improved, and because many more will abide by rules and laws because of good postures and high control activity. The railway is flourishing and is taking ever-increasing parts of the traffic in the densely populated areas. New tracks have provided the basis for multiple departures. All sections of the train have been offered in the long term since 2005, and there are several companies with different operating models and different regional anchorages. The introduction of zero-emission technologies in the transport sector has come a long way. There is therefore no contradiction between good transport services also in districts and good environmental policies. Strict environmental requirements are imposed, and the transport market competes for being "first in the loop" to adapt to new requirements. The proposal for a national transport plan is a clear breakthrough for the Left in its policy, especially for a more environmentally friendly urban policy and for putting heavy money on the railways where it means the most. We now have a government that says in clear text that modern urban policy is not an increase in car use, but a clear and clear prioritisation of public transport, bicycle and pedestrian routes. We have had the impression that road safety must be given priority, both by increasing safety at rest and by prioritising the roads that are the most accident-related. The left has noted that a majority in the Stortinget, including the Labour Party, are satisfied that the national transport plan follows the climate communication and that it facilitates an offensive climate policy for the transport sector, with increased collective participation, increased environmental requirements and a focus on zero-emission technologies. I'm glad that the Left is part of a government coalition that dares to prioritize, and that is realistic about what we can do in the next few years. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party are now jumping around land and beach and giving people and communities the false hope that they have more money for all the world's good projects. With all due respect, the so-called plurality, which now gathers around the worst of time, is a plurality that is mutually disagreeable about almost everything. They don't know what to use the money for, and whether to pick up each money from. The working party's framework proposal is NOK 23.5 billion higher than the government proposed in the National Transport Plan 2002-2011. The Labour Party’s leader in the Transport Committee for the years 1997-2001 stated in the context of the management of the last NTP: "I think it's becoming suspicious when the travel plans become a competition for who can think of the highest number. And I think it's sad when some people think more about the campaign than what it's actually possible to do. Promiseing gold and green forests, which we know we can't carry out, I think only leads to political contempt, and none of us deserve it." I fully agree with the representative Ola Røtvej. The difference between today's government party and the Workers' Party was 5 billion kroner. There are two projects that I should mention quickly towards the end. The fact that the left has won over the use of ferries subsidiars for new road connections has given us the happy result that the Imarsund connection can now be realized. I'm glad. The other is brown over Hardangerfjord. We will have both the costs associated with supply routes and the securing of a winter open-ended range where we meet our environmental obligations. First we get an overview of all the costs associated with this project, and first we can decide on and, if necessary, prioritise Hardangerbrua.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e963	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e966	Is it the case that the Left does not care about the frameworks proposed by the Labour Party and supported by the SV and the Progress Party? If that's what May Britt Vihovde from the Left now said, there's going to be a good clarification. So until the last May Britt Vihovde was on: Hardangerbrua. There have been very many special attitudes to prevent this matter from arising in the national transport plan. She wrote in Bergen's Official Journal that the Arbeidarpartiet was running with trixing when we said that we must now get this project out again, so that the Stortinget can take a decision on it. Is it so now that the Left is ready to say yes to the project with Hardangerbrua, which all the municipalities of Hardanger have prioritised, and which the county council has as priority no. 1? Would the left do its own thing to get it realized?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e975	Let me start with history first. In the framework of the previous national transport plan, there was also a majority higher than the Stoltenberg Government provided. But the road development frameworks are laid down in the various budgets. And then we'll see about the opposition -- even though they've promised 22 billion dollars more over the next ten years, 2.2 billion dollars more per. years - are able to deliver when they are to submit their alternative government budget, possibly taking over the government power. So to my claim about tricking. Yes, when I was told that the Labour Party wanted to take Hardangerbrua away from the national transport plan and bring her up later, I called it trickling. But I have clearly stated that Hardangerbrua is part of the treatment of the national transport plan, and there it is. We want all the costs associated with this bridge project on the table, both for environmental tunnels at Hardangervidda, the environmental consequences of increased traffic across Hardangervidda and for access routes. First of all, we are ready to address this and say: Do we want to give priority to that project with the costs ahead of many other road projects? [[President clubs]] I hope so, too, the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e982	The President will state that the time for the change of line is up to 1 minute, so that a line shall be 1 minute and the answer shall be 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e985	Had it not been as good for the Left to say as SV that Hardangerbrua we are actually against, we have previously agreed to oppose it, we do not want more traffic on Hardangervida, and we do not want these costs? We had finished that matter. But I recognise that the Left is doing a job in government to prevent that project from being realized. So, to a question like Left and SV in the old days, where, in cooperation with more people in Stortinget, we got to a law that we've seen and heard very little about since. I'm talking about road pricing. When the left says that you have had too much impact, in this area I miss the left most, in terms of proposals related to road pricing, a positive mention of this, especially when we see that countries around us are starting to take advantage of it. What has the Left intend to do in the future to create a sensible road pricing system also in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e992	Let me start with the Hardanger Bridge and the difference between the Left and the Socialist Left Party there. The left has never been in principle against the construction of Hardangerbrua, but we have thought that there were other priorities that were important in Hardanger, among others. in the case of racial protection and yellow strips. We actually mean that if the bridge is to be realized, one has to take the environmental impact of it. It means more traffic across the Hardanger range, and that means that one has to implement the measures that are needed to secure the international environmental obligations that we have in place. That's what we want on the table first, maybe prioritizing first. So for road pricing. The left supports road pricing. We believe that this will have to be a local priority. But one can't have road pricing and tolls in the same system, and here our local people have to choose. Do they want road pricing, or do they want to have toll financing? We have supported that by introducing tolls on some projects we can also use them for collective action.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e999	I'll promise Left that from the Labour Party's side, we'll follow up on what we've said in connection with the National Transport Plan, when we get to the budget for the Autumn. In the last budget, too, we have been able to get the government party to increase the licenses for transport purposes. So to Hardangerbrua. If it's the way Left thinks she's part of a national transport plan, as May Britt Vihövde now said, I'm surprised that the Council of State, which also belongs to the Left, didn't say anything about it in the National Transport Plan. It was recorded in the Stortinget, not on the basis of reference in the plan, but on the basis of what Stortinget wanted. If May Britt Vihovde and Left think that it should be included in the plan, then it should be mentioned in the plan that the Left Council of State put forward. So I have some doubts about the Left's view of this matter, but there's nothing that slips me more than whether the Left has changed its attitude about the Hardangerbru project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1009	As I said in my article, I am very pleased that the government party within the framework we have is able to show clear priorities. The reason that Hardangerbrua is not mentioned in the National Transport Plan is that it is within the framework set by the Government that other projects are prioritised. It's a priority race safety project, the Coastal Road is a priority, the Bergens programme is a priority, but not Hardanger-brua. There are many costs associated with Hardanger Bridge that are not on the table. These must be on the table before we can go in and prioritize. I'm glad of that. When we get these costs on the table, both with environmental tunnels and with access routes, we'll see if the Workers' Party is willing to prioritize the project and the costs associated with that project up against the Coastal Highway in Hordaland, racial protection and other good transportation projects that I know are absolutely necessary in the county of Ranveig Frøiland and I come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1014	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1017	As others have pointed out, the national transport plan is a comprehensive document. It provides guidance for infrastructure development up to 2015. We have traveled country and beach around and listen to wishes and needs. Transport is the key to and the premise that we can produce and construct as we do, but also get to transport what we produce. Expectations were extra big this time. It was a Right-dominated government that would show in action that now it would be gone in the well. It wasn't like that. Oddvard Nilsen's ralling over the frames of the previous transport plan is forgotten - tax havens are the most important. Succeeded in maintenance increases, both on the road and on the track. The Workers' Party's proposals, which get multiples, take these challenges seriously. Once one has also received clear messages about unemployment and the employment effect of increased efforts in the civil engineering sector, more money was needed. Twenty-two billion dollars were reconciled, and ten billion of them went to the railway. On behalf of the Ministry, the Railway Agency has created a list of what they can deliver for this sum, and it is not very small. Of course, most must go to double tracks and new construction on the routes to intercitytoga. That's where one has the biggest bottlenecks, but Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger also get well-developed routes - Gjøvikbanen too, for the sake of the saga. We can see that the new trains we've already acquired can run on hamlets that will have an impact on investment. But also we who live along the long-distance routes, get ours; crossing tracks, transition removal and new electricity supply. In short, we're looking forward to the rail being lifted after over 100 years. In the Labour Party we were satisfied when the electricity charge was cancelled for freight traffic, but so much more as the Government wanted to reintroduce it after half a year. Developments to get the most goods on the track had taken such a positive turn that Safety Traffic, Line Goods, Transport Users' Joint Organisation and others said they didn't know what the Government was thinking either. The budget agreement with the Workers' Party got the electricity charge out again, and it should be there for the future. We mean something about zero vision, reducing CO2 emissions, but also following Europe in their transport policy, trajectory is an important part of him. We should stimulate the transport development that we want, not put a pair of hats in the wheels. Rail has, unlike road, paid VAT on both maintenance and investment. That's about 500 million. kr a year, which the State has given, but also withdraws. The road charge on the wagon load makes timber transport on the track unprofitable. Here the sea path is a bad option. The working party will present a Document No in its time. Eight proposals to get her out of here, but got depressed. It's a small sum, but with great negative consequences, with thousands of vehicle trains out on the road where the bulwarks are still on their factory premises, ready to take trains. It shouldn't be like that. The Labour Party believes that there must be a similar system for all transports, as there can be a comparison with the same, and one will see how much one gets for the measures, and each investment should be inserted. For the railway, the national transport plan 2006-2015 is the lift of the times. The Railway Agency characterised the Government's willingness to bet on the track most as a weather option. The government would probably use $3 billion more than that. Governments have thus presented their alternative. I'll almost characterize it as a squiggly pin. This great addition they now get should be able to be applied according to the same principle as when a built-in Gardermoban. Rational progress without an annual budget could result in savings of between 10 pst. and 20 pst. Repayments may be made, for example: occur over 20 to 30 years. In the belief that it would once be the railway that would be the winner, there is no lack of completed projects from the Railway Agency's side. That we as leaders of the working party group, this time we will be happy to see that the plans are held, I feel certain. The entire group supports a total of $22 billion, but also the distribution. It was a big day, but it was an even bigger day, and the goal was achieved when the Central Party, SV and the Advance Party announced subsidiary membership. The center part, like us, is a section of the road and a section of the track. The country wasn't built once and for all, now we're in the process of upgrading, a new building without government intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1042	Today, the national transport plan is being addressed. The plan takes account of developments and ambitions in transport policy over the next ten years. It is important to have a comprehensive and realistic plan to achieve the objectives of transport policy. NTP is not a budgetary matter or a long-term budget, but a priority plan and a governance document for the forthcoming programming period. Not one penny is allowed to travel here today. This is done in the context of the State budgets. There are great expectations for NTP around the country. A well-developed infrastructure for both housing, business and value creation is essential. It is therefore gratifying that this government has made a significant increase in road appropriations during this majority period, compared to what the socialist government did in the previous period. In 2001, the Socialist Government granted DKK 10.2 billion for road use. After this government came to power, road appropriations in 2004 have increased to NOK 12.2 billion, an increase of nearly 20 pst. This is real money and not air billions. I am pleased that our government in the NTP is agreeing to continue this process over the next decade. In addition to the increased road traffic, which is to be continued, it has been imperative to make major changes in the state road management. We have to get more back for the big government funds going to the road sector. Here this government has implemented major structural changes. We're moving resources from computers to excavators. The number of road offices is reduced from 19 to 5, while reducing the number of bureaucrats by 20 pst, from 5000 to 4000. The entire purchase of services related to operation, maintenance and investment in the State Road Service shall be subject to tender. For new construction and asphalting everything has already been tendered, while for operation and maintenance we have come halfway. In a few years, everything will be exposed to competition. As part of this reform, the State Production Department has been transformed into AS. It also means a sharp increase in efficiency, where the number of employees is also to be reduced by 20 p.m., from 5000 to 4000. The results have not been allowed to wait. The effects will be between and DKK 1 billion per year in released funds used for new road purposes. I record that the socialists are still questioning whether this reform will produce results, but using it, they can jam it. I record with some wonder that some parties are gathering around an increased frame for both road and track. After reading the article in the Evening Post on 10 June 2004 - the title is "22 billion air on the road and track" - I wonder what counties and municipalities should do when you can read: "Fr.p. says that this does not have the status of any agreement, and that the party is free from any relationship with whether the party will actually grant more money to the railway. This is purely subsidiary voting, says Svendsen. In SV, the position was the same. The lot does not feel obliged to follow the roadblock in the annual budgets." So it remains to be seen whether the opposition's desire for the world to be deceived is being fulfilled. I am pleased with the priority that has been given to the main road network in central lines, where the traffic volume is high and the accident figures are high. During this period, we will get four fields of midranges continuous from the Drammen to the Telemark border. It's a big boost in itself. Through Agder the route Tvedestrand-Arendal will be assessed at the next roll of the plan. The E39 Grimstad-Kristiansand Centre shall be fully developed as a four-field road with midpoints in the first part of the period. By including the Animal Park-Rona route, we avoid a dangerous bottleneck that reminds us of the problems south of the Drammen. Kristiansand is the region's hub, here meets the port, the track and the road. The port is a national port and must be further developed in the intermodal solutions. For this reason, it is important to have a good infrastructure in place. Kristiansandspak 3 will make this possible. Cooperation between Kristiansand and the municipalities west of Kristiansand is under way. The challenge is now local, and here I know that it is will to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1073	National transport plan is an important plan. Traffic is essential for a country such as Norway and, in particular, the development of a better road network is important. The plan had improved even better on the accompanying obligatory action programme, financial commitments over a period of several years ensuring that the adopted plan was actually also annual decisions with real money. At the same time, the plan shows a formidable gap between the need for road development and the planning frameworks provided by the majority in a subsidiary way. When we as a nation are as oily as we are, there is still an unintelligible wealth problem that we are going to have to wait for a housekeeper's position to expand the very lifeblood of the Norwegian community, a road network that allows people and businesses to flourish. The proposal of the Progress Party of SEK 75 billion more is an attempt at national greatness, and it is regrettable that we remain alone. This setting refers to important national transport corridors in the West and in Hordaland. In the context of this plan, it is important and gratifying that the four Western states of Rogaland, Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romesdal have made a common case and have given priority to the E39, or the Coastal Route, as we call it, the important north-south link along the coast. On the other hand, it is worrying and unacceptable that a full deployment of the E39, from Rogaland to Trondheim, with today's planning frameworks, will require a comprehensive toll payment. The Progress Party has provided full funding and full deployment of the E39. However, it is important that work is started on the E39 in the Bergen area so that the new and important link between the E39 between Os and Bergen can be realised as quickly as possible. In the case of the East-West link, I suggest that the Progress Party proposes an upgrade of E134, Drammen-Haukeli-Odda-Bergen, with a total of SEK 3.3 billion. The Haukeli trasé is also an important trasé in the national context. The Progress Party, together with several parties, notes on the important Hardanger Bridge. We want a case of development and funding for Stortinget as soon as possible. The project is now taking an important step forward. It's high time! The Committee says on the challenges in the Bergen region: "Mountains have significant traffic challenges that need to be addressed with both better behalf and better public transport. The Bergen programme is an important contribution to addressing these challenges". But in the Bergen programme lies an urban railway project that is an economical and traffic airlock. The mountain needs collective bets, a bus-based collective system for the whole city, and an extended road network for both driving and bus driving. The municipality of Bergen is in deep economic crisis. Base offers are cut, and the city track can be the track of the city. What Bergen doesn't need is new economic instruments that leave several unpaid bills to the city's population, a city where tolls have been paid for 20 years, and where once over 20 years ago it was promised that tolls would never be paid again when that period was over. Now the promise is to get 20 new years, and the tolls that were to be fixed at NOK 5 have been raised to NOK 15. Finally, in the context of transport, we have unfortunately got what seems to be a new rule of action. I'll take the bet and quote from the message, and I'll then talk about the so-called risk-free real interest rate: "The risk-free real interest rate is set by the Ministry of Finance at 3.5 pst. The risk add-on will vary between different uses. Risk does not mean, in this context, the project-specific uncertainty about cost and utility figures is foreseen, but a socio-economic risk related to how the return on projects varies with the return on national wealth." I could go further, but it's actually going to be even less meaningful. Had it been parliamentary language, I would call it the purest hesitation. If we are to operate at the risk of road construction, it must be a risk deduction. Some of the trick, some of the smartest, some of the best things we can do socio-economically, is actually to invest a good part of the money we have in abundance, in Norwegian road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1101	The representative himself was aware that it is irreprehensible to note that parts of the Storing Message are "doubt". The President fully agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1104	The government’s proposal for a national transport plan means that Norwegian traffic remains at rest in the years to come, and barely so. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre have pointed out in a comitology note that the share of the public budget in the budget for transport has fallen from 8.6 p.m. in 1986 to 3.2 pst. in 2002. Budgetary developments over the last 15 years show that the budget for transport has become a balancing item. If the government's framework proposal were to be followed, I'm pretty sure the proportion would go below 2 pst. in 2015. It was SV who focused on this issue last autumn. In the debate that followed, the political leadership of the Ministry of Transport has been more concerned with explaining this fact than focusing on the issue and raising a broad debate on the budgetary framework for the transport sector. This is not at all a problem in the proposal for a national transport plan. In this article, I would like to argue for a national transport commitment in the years to come in order to address major environmental challenges and to further expand the country. Instead of addressing this major challenge, the Government has a blind focus on the gospel of the competitive outlook also in the field of transport. The proposal for a national transport plan emphasises that competitive outsourcing, privatisation and liberalisation should be used as a basis for the organisation of the transport sector. "The government will continue to develop more market-oriented infrastructure development, operation and maintenance in all transport sectors", states Norwegian Transport Plan. This is so far no new course for Norwegian traffic, but it is a strengthening, and it speeds up the right turn. It has been possible through cooperation with the Progress Party. There is no time to encroach on all areas that are or are to be put out to competition or set aside for AS, but on the Right's website you can find a list of what the Right has achieved through this period. As a result of conciliation with the Progress Party, the Right and Government have been given a majority in favour of the following, and so on: launching competition on the rail track, launching of the national road ferries, the Swedish Aviation Agency of AS, etc. On the website of the Christian People's Party, however, it is not boasted by this policy--on the contrary. The proposal for the 2005-2009 party programme states that the Christian People’s Party will oppose the competitive outsourcing of rail passenger transport. You protest for the world, but you willingly follow the path. The majority of the population should have studied more carefully in their arduous ways of depoliticising and liberalising the transport sector are the long-term consequences. One consequence is clearly demonstrated in a recent NOU 2004:2 on "Effects of State intervention for regional development and regional policy objectives", as it is called. One of the responses is significant centralisation of state jobs. The number of State jobs in the Oslo region has increased by 15 pst. in the last 15 years to 56 100 in 2002. So it's 45 pst. of the total number of annual works in state core activities. Similarly, there has been a decline in small towns and districts. The supply in the districts is weakened when market orientation and liberalisation are to govern transport policy. We have examples of that from the Post Office, and we have examples of that in terms of broadband deployment in the districts. It is not being expanded or very late where the market and population base are weak. In the SV we are opposed to this policy. We want strong public governance of investment in national infrastructure. If the transport offer is to be extended to the same standard and quality throughout the country, it must be subject to strong public and political governance. One of the main objectives of the national transport plan is better accessibility in and between regions. It's a long way, this country, to say it with Rolf Jacobsen. Most of it's north. The government will promote the development of viable districts. That is not in line with the proposal for priorities. As the Address Paper wrote in the leadership position here by day: "The government's proposal was not a national plan, but a regional plan for investment in the East." The most obvious is the priorities of pesticides. It takes SEK 6 billion from other national roads in the districts to large motorway investments in the Oslo region. Of the 27 000 km national roads in this country, other national roads make up 18 400 km, i.e. 68 pst. If one compares the framework of the national transport plan 2002–05 with that proposed for other national roads in the period 2006–09, and picks out a large proportion of other national roads with poor standards, the framework is for example: Telemark, Nordland, Møre and Romsdal, Sogn and Fjordane and Troms nearly halved in the period. This is a marked centralisation of road investment, and I would say this is directly hostile to districts. The government says that racial protection of the road network must be given priority. We agree. 15 pst. of the Norwegian road network passes through raspberry areas. But the government isn't proposing to increase your wager - on the contrary. The budget item earmarked for this purpose is maintained at the level of the year, and when the resources for other national roads are reduced as significantly as they are done, the total is reduced. SV will increase the effort for racial protection by double. We're proposing the earmarked entry increased from 200 million. NOK 400 million. kr. National road ferries are a very important part of coastal communications. We have 96 ferry connections, and there's still a lot to do before we have enough capacity. With the level of appropriations for the year, a total of 121 current ferry fleets of 193 vessels will be 30 years of age or older in 2010. Only ten of these meet new requirements for availability and environment. Furthermore, the level of ambition for opening hours, frequencies and capacity is reduced in this plan in relation to Norwegian road and road transport plans 1994-1997. The reason is that there is no economy to achieve the objectives of the original plan. SV proposes to increase the frame by DKK 1 billion during the planning period. The increase shall be linked to increased capacity, reduced ferry tariffs and fleet renewal. There are 29 regional airports in this country, and they have a good impact on regional policy. It tells us, among other things: the power switch I referred to earlier. There won't be a majority this time to go down airports, even though the government is doing the best it can. So far in the period, the government has tried to shut down three short-haul airports: Leirin, Narvik and Vardø. This time, on the other hand, a clear signal is given to create a new private airport at Rygge in Eastfold. There is an important link with this proposal, which I would like to comment on. The government has justified its proposals to shut down the small airports, with financial support. It costs too much. The point is that when the bulk of the population now opens up to a new private airport at Rygge, it could in the long run affect the economy of Avinor similar to the operation of very many short-haul airports. An airport at Rygge will be a direct competitor to Gardermoen and weaken the economy of Gardermoen. The Gardermoen is in the years to come, provided that it is an important source of income for Avinor, where cross-subsidisation with the entire aerodrome network is an important foundation. If it fails on the Gardermo, it will fail in the whole of Avinor. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have not even agreed to the payment of concession fees by Rygge and Torp so that they can participate in the joint financing of Avinor. This decision on Rygge is not a good social economy. It could be a direct threat to Avinor's economy and the operation of the entire Norwegian airport system. SV refuses to allow a new civil airport at Rygge, both for nature protection reasons and because of the economic consequences I have mentioned. The Government’s proposal for a future port structure proposes to build on the existing structure but to reduce it to two levels. There are 57 municipal ports along the coast, and the Government proposes that ten of these ports should be national ports. The other 47 are to be designated as other ports for local business. No measures have been proposed that can contribute to the transfer of more goods from road to maritime transport. Nor are measures proposed for the development of national ports. That points to the Coastal Plant, among other things. as important for achieving the desired development. SV is critical for the main concentration of parcels and containers at national ports. We have industrial ports with much higher volumes of goods and access rates than ports proposed as national ports. SV therefore considers that proposals on port structure must be put forward and promoted as a matter of their own for the Stortinget. What the Government believes will be hanging in the air is the possibility of development for the major freight ports which are not proposed as national ports. We are pleased that the Workers' Party and SV agree to return the matter of freight and port policy to the Government. We want a national strategy with effective instruments, which both the Coastal and the transport sector is calling for. My conclusion, therefore, is that this plan does not signal an increase in the bet on traffic. There is no indication of an increase in railway investment, where a take-off is needed for the next 10 years in order to survive the railway as a national means of transport, or on the infrastructure of the districts, which is essential for the pattern of settlement and value creation in the country. Reasonable investment in transport is not unproductive tax havens that increase private consumption. It's investment in the future. It's a good economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1170	It is very gratifying to see that in this position, despite disagreement on some individual matters, there is broad political support for the main features of the Government’s proposal for a national transport plan for the period 2006-2015. I note that there is now a green light for the strategic action that I believe should and should shape the policy on transport in the years to come, which means renewal and change in policy. With this plan, we are facilitating greater mobility for most people, which provides a basis for the well-being and growth of our society in the years to come. The need for increased mobility needs to be met in different ways in urban and rural areas. A very important strategic approach for this government is a more environmentally friendly urban transport, with both better public transport and restrictive measures against urban car use. The car has been, and is, a freedom and welfare revolution for most of us. But there is reason to think that today's Nordics are doing away in one month the same distance by car that people a little over a generation ago spent a year on. This makes completely different demands on how we ensure increased mobility, while at the same time taking care of the environment and health and using the areas that make sense where people live densely - in the big cities. We follow this up in the national transport plan. I'm assuming that now is the end of the times when we're trying to build ourselves out of the transportation challenges in cities with a dedicated dimension after rush time traffic. Instead, there is a need to mitigate the growth of car use and meet people’s need for increased mobility by facilitating more people to travel collectively, bicycles or in cities. It depends on local willingness both to invest more in public transport and to impose restrictive measures on car use. The government proposes state measures and will contribute funds. The fact that there are two and a half billion dollars earmarked for the emergence of public transport in cities in the national transport plan, and corresponding to walking and cycling roads, are clear signs of this. Road users also contribute funds. Then I expect local authorities to set up their resources and instruments. Then we get a spice layer, where the city's inhabitants, the environment and public health become winners. Another important strategic approach is the concentration of resources in the form of larger and more coherent deployments on both road and rail. By road, it means, in practice, a strong and more concentrated commitment to the development of the tribal road network - as in all parts of the country - increasing road safety and better accessibility. For the railway, we combine concentration of funds and continuous development. We are strengthening the very focused railway, where it has its greatest advantage, and facilitating the long-term environmentally friendly development of the largest press areas in the country. A third strategic approach is increased road traffic safety as a continuous premise. Norway is among the countries in the world with the lowest accident risk in traffic, and the risk has been significantly reduced in the last 30 years. Nevertheless, about 1,500 people are killed or seriously injured each year in road traffic. This is unacceptable. I would therefore like to strengthen my efforts to build safety into new and old road systems. This means the development of high-traffic tribal roads into four fields, the increased use of two- and three-field pits and the substantial increase in resource use to smaller road safety measures that remove the accident site on the roads. However, no matter how good roads we have, accidents will occur if road users do not comply with the applicable rules. Safety is achieved through respect for the forces that come over when driving a car and respect for fellow passengers. That is why mind-building is so important. If all road users complied with traffic rules, the number of fatalities would be halved annually. Therefore, my starting point is to be able to offer people a traffic system that provides safety against accidents as far as they comply with laws and regulations. I want to strengthen both training, information and control in road traffic. The fourth strategic approach I want to draw out is competition as a means of providing travellers with a better offer, and getting more transportation for the money. Using competition, e.g.: State purchases of passenger train services are not disclaimers, as some have claimed. On the contrary, it is against taking responsibility for making the best possible overall offer, and for making clearer demands than today on what services we will have performed, and how this is to be done. It is worth noting that all countries that have so far entered into competition in rail passenger transport have experienced more passengers and a better offer. Absolutely all countries that have tried this have chosen to continue and to some extent to expand their use. In the road sector, the already adopted competitive outlook and the switchover will generate gains of several hundred million dollars each year. It means better roads and increased activity in the sector. If we're able to do the same thing on the railway, it's not the worse safety for the railway, it's the opposite. Money saved through the use of competition may and must be used within the railway for more departures, new trains or investment for even better safety. Preventing such reforms within the railway will literally be putting the railway on a siding with the tearing development of other modes of transport. From my point of view, I therefore see a solid, green thread in the national transport plan presented by the Government. More environmentally friendly urban transport, more coherent road and rail development, better road traffic safety and more transport for money through reforms in the sector - this has been the main priority of the Government in the proposal for a national transport plan, and I do not believe that the bulk of the population wants to prioritise any of this. I am also pleased that the Committee clearly concludes that universal accessibility should have a central place in transport policy, and that this is so important that accessibility for all should be a primary objective of its own. I noticed with pleasure that a joint committee already on page 8 of the vote highlights the importance of a good balance between plan and annual budgets, so that the national transport plan can have credibility as an instrument for prioritisation and progress. The importance of such a good balance cannot, in my view, be stressed strongly enough. National transport plan is primarily a tool for prioritisation, for determining what to do first, and what to do further down the list. The planning framework on which the government has laid down, totalled DKK 19 billion per year. year, is at the level of the year's budget for transport. This year's budget is the highest in some years for the last two peak periods. That's about $1 billion higher per. year-on-year than the budgets of the previous programming period, including, inter alia: The working party was with the government. The government's planning framework for both road and track is therefore at a high level, and the plan is ambitious, as it has been presented. I also notice that in the Committee's position, there is no majority in favour of increasing the framework of the railways, nor any majority in favour of increasing the framework. All this causes me to wonder little about the fact that the same parties that are concerned about the national transport plan's trust as a management tool signal that they subsidiaryly support a framework in which they really strongly disagree. SV wants less money for large road constructions. The party now secures majority to promise more. The Progress Party wants less money for the railways. The party now secures majority to promise more. And the Workers' Party, in its government position, has consistently proposed less than this government to both road and rail, but now promises much more to both. Prioritizing means putting something ahead of something else. In my view, it is to be able and would give priority to the very basis for having a meaningful debate on transport policy. It is in transport policy that is the other way around: it is not necessarily the one who writes the longest wish list for Christmas, which gets the biggest and most Christmas gifts. It's long till Christmas--luckily. But we all have a great responsibility to contribute to the fact that what's in the plan is something that can be carried out to the delight of people and community throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1210	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1213	Even if it falls a little heavy on me right now, I would say that the Council of State has provided a good big message, especially when it concerns goals, but then it boils down to money. But before I say anything more about it, I'm going to say that the Labour Party is going to follow up on what we promise. We've actually done that in this period right here. There may be two lessons to learn not to follow up - either to follow up better next time, or to promise less. We promise more, and we intend to follow up on the next round as well. Then we say it's too little money. It's too little money, and that's actually what it's all about in the national transport plan. In some articles here today it seems like it's a biting-- no, it's actually the frame it's about to a large extent. I have to say that I thicken the Council of State is seriously out and cycling in the last comments around the country, where she has chatted with the great crowd and at the end in a way has been completely on the edge of what I think a council of states can allow. And to be perfectly clear: the majority makes a decision on an increased frame today. This should be the basis for the action plans. The question is: is this understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1223	Let me quote what's in the setting: "The Committee would point out that it is in the annual budgets that the framework is adopted and acknowledges that the budgets in the current NTP period have not followed up the plans. The Committee believes that this should not be repeated, and therefore sees it as important to strike a good balance between the need for resources and the ability to follow up so that the confidence in NTP as an instrument is restored." To know if you have any reason to be sure that this is being followed up, it's quite natural that people ask what you've done in the past. And if you go back, you see that what we've put up with from the government is very ambitious, compared to the government of Stoltenberg's corresponding proposals to the NTP. There will be no more money for transportation, even if in such a plan you try to adopt a higher planning framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1233	National transport plan does not take into account today’s transport problems and far from tomorrow’s problems. I listened to the contribution of the Minister of Transport, and the message was first and foremost that the next thing we should do to solve the traffic problems is to decide that the Norwegian people should comply with the Road Traffic Act. I think they might have to decide if they're going to do that. I record that the minister also says that you should follow the plans you adopt. I think one should listen when the minister says so, because the government parties are probably the only parties in the Stortinget that have not followed up the plans they themselves have made. I also record that the minister says that she should interpret the decision of the majority of the population. My advice to the Minister is that instead she follows the decisions taken in the Stortinget. That's why we make decisions in Stortinget. And then my question is: does the minister act to follow the decisions that are made here?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1242	First of all, I am a little surprised at the attitude of deciding whether to follow the law. That's not why we have promises in this country. That's because they have to be followed. The second is, of course, I intend to follow the decisions that exist here. But it has not been so easy to find out what was really going to be the decision, when we hear in several of the speeches that in turn we intend to support a proposal that is not really intended to follow up. It makes it a little difficult, I think. But now it has been a form of explanation of vote, where it has been reasonably clear that there is a subsidiary vote in favour of the proposal of the Labour Party, but that it is not really meant. That's what we have to follow, and of course we're going to try to follow up on this as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1249	Let's not drag this into the parody. It is a very clear decision that will be taken on the basis of a subsidiary vote. The only thing that the Council of States needs to say clearly from this pulpit is that she is going to make action plans in line with that decision. And that's perfectly clear. Then we are faced with an election in 2005, and then the Norwegian people can vote on the party that they think has the best transport policy. Anyway, it's what will determine what kind of transport policy we'll get in the next ten years. But let's just confirm that the Council of State is going to make action plans in line with the decision taken today in the Stortinget, and we're done with it. I was actually going to ask a slightly more generous question, because there is a major breach in the green line that the Minister of Transport describes in the National Transport Plan. Where have there been effective measures to reduce climate change emissions from the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1256	For the Left, it is important to have a clear environmental profile in this message. We have. We have also outlined a policy in relation to the climate challenges. We also have an exciting follow-up to the Hydrogen Committee, which could be an important contribution in addition to the contributions we have outlined in the National Transport Plan. Then I want to make it clear that we intend to follow decisions taken here at Stortinget. At the same time, I have to say that if I had been a picker who didn't know what to vote for here in the country, I would have been greedyly confused when I hear that there are several parties that substitutively intend to vote for something they don't at all stand for, and that they obviously haven't thought to follow up. But I'm going to follow the decisions made here in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1263	I was in the Committee on Transport when the previous National Transport Plan was discussed. There is a significant difference between that treatment and treatment today. Today, we are going to make concrete, binding decisions on a framework and distribution of funds. I hope that the Council of State will remember that. That's not what I was going to ask. My question is about maintenance on the road network. I mentioned in my post that there is cause for concern, because we have a big aftertaste. The government's proposal for NTP maintenance did not seem to me in any way to follow it up as one should expect, when we know that we have so much lag. In addition, the Government of the Revised National Budget has actually proposed to reduce compared to what is today. So my question is short and good: Is the Council of State comfortable with the commitment made by the Government when it concerns maintenance on the road network?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1272	I'm still a little surprised that you stress that there are decisions on frameworks. We're going to follow the decisions that are made here in this room, and I'm going to make a plan out of it. But when I hear that there will be binding decisions on frameworks, I will again quote what the Committee says: "The Committee would point out that it is in the annual budgets that the framework is adopted." That means we're not adopting a budget framework here. What we are adopting here is a priority and a strategy for what we want with the transport policy. So for maintenance: maintenance is important, and that's why it weighs so heavily in the national transport plan. It is quite clear that we have a traffic increase over time that means that we have to spend a lot of money on maintenance, and not only that, but we also have higher security requirements than we have had in the past. It also means that we will have strong commitments that we will have to make a heavy contribution to maintenance in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1284	Before the changes were to take place in the airport structure, remedial measures would be in place – i.e. before the possible closure of airports – unless otherwise accepted by the municipalities and areas covered by the closure. Close dialogue with the parties involved should be established to provide solutions that all could live with. I can't see that this has been followed up in any way. Why does the Council of State not follow up such decisions taken in the Grand Duchy? And in addition, how does the Council of State assess Avinor's equity?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1291	With regard to the issue of equity in Avinor, we have just submitted a communication on that. I have no other view of it than what we have expressed there. With regard to the proposal for a change - either the closure of airports or the termination of the purchase of services - we have proposed compensatory measures. It's in the proposal from us. If you choose to think that it's not good enough to make those changes in the aircraft structure, then I have respect for it. But we have proposed compensatory measures in our proposal to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1298	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1301	The transport plan's setting puts forward a much better focus on transport than what was the starting point of the Government. That's absolutely necessary. We have to recognise that for several years we have become dependent on both investments and operations. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Labour Party will have a number for its arrangement to increase the frame by NOK 22 billion, then with subsidiary support from SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party. The good thing about this broad alliance is that it doesn't just bet on the road or just bet on the railways and other public transport, it stays on both. The party of progress must have a reward to join our railway effort, and SV in order to be on the road. Now there is a responsibility for the parties that make up the majority, for the plan to be followed up in the annual budgets. The government and the government have additional tax laws as their goal, and can therefore not be involved in such a bet as the plural set here. In the meeting with the business community, many of us feel little call for new tax havens, but we are experiencing the demand for better transport solutions. Yes, we are facing the threat of deflagration because of queue problems, bottlenecks and poor security. Transport policy is also at the highest level of industrial policy. For the railway, it is soon a question of being or not being in the future. It seems to be a broad deal to get more both passenger and freight traffic from road to road, but the follow-up to this is not something we can boast of in any way. Now there are in the setting the expansion of double tracks from Oslo to Hamar, Fredrikstad and Tønsberg, and double tracks around Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger. This is what people will notice. Punctuality and traffic management will improve and freight traffic will benefit greatly. The train should be competitive, with large freight transports over long distances. But it requires increased development of freight terminals, so that the transition from car to path, and vice versa, becomes effective. Therefore, the plan must be followed up, and one must proceed with it as soon as possible afterwards. I'm sure that a freight terminal at a hub that Otta would be a socio-economical one and in many ways the right investment. With several crossing tracks, the basis would be for increased freight traffic on the Dovre track. The Gjøvik course has long been threatened with liquidation, and it would be bad if we were to send the traffic over there on the road. Now a test with a postponement of competition. Then one will at least make sure to have tracks on which transport companies can drive. There really is a lot to be done here. I am pleased that there is now room for an improvement in power supply. In our country it's impossible to get profitability in all train operations. Many of these would nevertheless be desirable and necessary to maintain layers. In my view, it also applies to the long distance train and the night train. We can't allow these supplies to be brought down. If there is no other advice, this must also be included under government purchase. Unfortunately, road traffic costs too many lives, and leads to great damage. Therefore, investment and maintenance are needed, and therefore there is also a need for increased investment in pedestrian and cyclist roads. On Lesja there is a great need for walking and cycling roads. The driving force is the community drowning in traffic. Here the train rolls in one on a road where young people and adults have to go and cycle. On 26 June 2003, Prime Minister Bondevik presented hundreds of readings and stated that in five-six years the walk and cycle path through Lesja would be completed. Yes, even the best Value Commission is going up there and promising a new road. According to the local authorities, Bondevik has repeated the promises and received a lot of notice. However, the Government does not propose this in the transport plan. So now we can see that it's the opposition party that keeps this promise from Bondevik, by saying that this is being carried out within the funds allocated to the corridor Lesja-Åndalsnes. Because it's not that Bondevik has other money lying in a drawer than what's in the plan? The only airport in Uppland, Leirin, has to fight again, both the flight route and the airport. A stable and long-term route offer must be given a chance. Now we also see an increase in traffic, so one should not re-establish the security of this route. It is therefore good that the opposition party stops the government's proposal for closure, and that one can now look forward to stable routes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1332	The current state of the national transport plan based on St.meld. No 24, is a ten-year plan paper. With a strong focus on getting a vote on frames, many are likely to be led to believe that the money is in place and the appropriations in the box. In the current planning period, we all have lived with discomfort with a gap between expectation and remoteness. Today, the majority will open this task further. Therefore, do not be surprised if the really interested reader reads the setting with glasses that distinguish between asphalt and air. During my short seagoing hours in the Committee on Transport, I have pulled a lot of the Road Service Memorial Cross from road openings in my own country. The freshest one we got last Friday on the E39 Tegen-Bogen, a split layer between the state and the motorist, with a private contractor running the tunnel. Such events remain many of them after nudity planning from the center-right government. Focusing on the E39 is important for the West, in addition to the E16 over Lærdal. When the government party as the only ones with ground contact today points to the beginning of the Kvivweg in the first four-year period, this is a clear message to many about priority. The future route adaptation of the 50 pst rule for toll projects should provide further local and regional optimism. Express bus policy works positively and provides my part of the country with a long-range collective offer. This is also the case with air traffic on the short-haul network, where competition between companies on the basis of tenders offers lower prices and rising passenger numbers. Posting of competition in national road ferries shall continue during the planning period. After having had good experience in seven test lines, this shall now continue. The Vocational Transport Act of January 2003 now opens up for the general use of tenders in national road ferries. Lifting is also the government’s policy for the construction of gas ferries. There is a strong Norwegian industrial interest related to the gas ferry concept in Boknafjorden and Bjørnfjorden, which will provide better, faster and more environmentally friendly traffic. In a broader sense in terms of seas, we will see that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Agency have recently faced new challenges. Responsibility for acute pollution, in particular related to increasing Russian oil traffic, is an environmental challenge that requires resources in the future. Modern ship traffic also has increasing requirements for fairway improvement, marking, operation and maintenance of navigation installations. I'm glad that the Centre-Right Government has a high level of ambition for oil protection and safety at sea. Several have shown that reorganization and competitive outsourcing are gradually generating hundreds of million dollars in annual savings, which are also benefiting the same sector in the next round. Operation and maintenance in the road sector is expected to increase efficiency by 600 million. kr in 2006. Many of us have expectations of improving the efficiency of the use of resources in the port and fairway sector when the production of the Coastal Plant is also to be transformed into a limited liability company.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1353	Good transport solutions are necessary in order to ensure residence and business throughout the country. If we're to succeed in making people live on all sides of the country, we have to facilitate good communication. Moreover, if a competitive business in the districts is to survive, the distance disadvantages to the markets need to be reduced. For the Christian People’s Party, therefore, transportation is an important part of district policy, and therefore it is reasonable that districts get a relatively higher proportion of traffic krones per year. head than central strokes! The Co-operation Board has presented a national transport plan that takes this dimension of transport policy seriously. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the Government of the National Transport Plan wants to spend more money on the purchase of airport services. This is an important signal from the Government that they want to maintain a good flight offer in the districts, including at a time of increased expenditure related to EU safety requirements. The government proposes to lay down Narvik Airport, Framnes, and cut off the contribution to the route Ferens, Leirin - Oslo, Gardermoen. In the previous round, the undersigned voted against the closure of airports, at the time three, on the grounds that we should come back with an overall assessment of the airport structure of the national transport plan. Unfortunately, the recommendations of the Air Safety Authority are not yet available and thus we did not get a full assessment of the airport structure, as expected. The Narvik Municipal Council has decided that the aerodrome may be closed when a satisfactory traffic solution between Narvik and Bjerkvik is available. This is under investigation, and alternative design will be available in the near future. The national transport plan is only a guiding framework, and I assume that a satisfactory proposal for a solution for the Narvik-Bjerkvik route is available before the closure takes place. The Christian People's Party does not want to weaken the provision of air services in the districts, but national transport plans provide us with a unique opportunity to assess the overall provision of transport in a region and the changes that have taken place. For the Ofoten region as a whole, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it will be a strength to achieve a good solution between Narvik and Bjerkvik, whether it be a bridge or a repair of the road. A collection about Harstad/Narvik airport, Evenes, will be positive for the whole region. For a coastal nation such as Norway, maritime transport is a very important part of the national transport plan. The Christian People's Party wants an active policy to facilitate more transport on the cold. Within the framework of the Coastal Plant, the Government has prioritised emergency preparedness work and measures to improve coastal safety and prosperity. These are priorities that the Christian People's Party agrees with! It is very important, not least in the north, where I come from, to have a good preparedness for pollution of the coast. The coast is our most important mattress and the basis for future well-being. The loss of Goddrun Gisladottir in the Nappstraumen in Lofoten is a reminder of this. We need to insure these vulnerable marine areas against pollution that unbalances ecology. The Christian People's Party believes that the City Ship Tunnel will increase safety along the coast. Many of those who travel at sea are very concerned about realizing this project. I am therefore pleased that the Government of the National Transport Plan announces that it will return to the issue of City Ship Tunnel in an appropriate manner after an overall assessment, and that the Government will invite the local and regional government and private to cooperate on the possible realisation of the project. The coast will be safer with the City Tunnel. As a major representative from Northern Ireland, I am also pleased that the national transport plan contains important initiatives both on the road and on the road in my country. This particularly benefits the Helgeland area, where there are increases in E6 improvements. I also attend the treatment of the Helgelands package in Stortinget, after the local authorities and the County Council have promoted a toll application. Major projects in the county are completed, such as the Korgfjell tunnel in 2005 and Lofast in 2007. In the case of the Northern Railways too, important investments will be made to improve safety and accessibility. Finally, it is sad to note that the Progress Party, despite the fact that they have 75 billion dollars more than the government parties at their disposal, seems to have to cut 350 million. kr on the Nordlandsbanen in the period. This, of course, goes beyond the transport capacity of the route, but the most serious thing is that it also affects safety. Finally, I would just like to say that they will be raising 600 million. kr more on the way in Northern Ireland during the NTP period, which the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen gave this morning in the NRK, after this debate has only become even more air millions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1387	In connection with St.meld. No 24, National Transport Plan, a historic boost is being made today when the bulk of the population increases the proposal for the framework by DKK 22 billion and the Workers' Party receives a majority with subsidiary support from the Socialist Left and the Progress Party. That's very good. I would also like to commend both the Socialist Left Party and the Progressive Party for their clean conduct. In addition, I am pleased that the representative of the Christian People's Party Jan Sahl is pleased with the efforts of the Workers' Party, SV and the Progress Party. The Committee has been visited by all the counties during the examination of the national transport plan, and there have been many consultations. I have to say that the message has been clear: more money for transportation. It has not been possible to misunderstand, and for good reason. Much remains to be done in the areas of transport, especially in relation to rail and road. That's why there's an important stake that's now being made. The working party will appear to be the road and track party, and we have received positive feedback from the bet that is now being made. It is as the leader of the Workers' Party's fraction that said: We must build the country There are many who agree with it. In addition, the Workers' Party will apply more to racial protection. It is very important, for example: for Troms County. We want people to feel safe when they travel, and business to get the predictability it needs. In addition, we want to spend more money on ports and fairways. We're going to spend 500 million. kr more to the Coastal Works. We do this because there is a need for greater investment in fishing ports and the labelling of fairways along the coast. Good transport solutions are closely linked to the aim of scattered settlement, and are a framework condition for industry, both the one we have today, and not least new establishments. Good transport solutions are equally good conditions for industry. There are many companies that are and have been harmed under far too poor road standards. We're doing something about this right now. It's from many teams, among others. from LO and NHO, said clearly that if this continues, they are afraid that companies are moving out. I don't think this is a scare shot. With regard to the Nordic countries, we are very pleased with the increases that have occurred. This applies to the Helgelands package, which is of great importance to the Helgelands region as a region of residence, employment and services. Then to Rv 80 Fauske-Bodø. This route is the main route into Bodø, and is of great value for the commercial transport and tourist traffic between Salten and E6. In addition, Narvik-Bjerkvik, where the Workers' Party considers the brewing option to be interesting, the so-called "Brusymphony", which may have potential as an export product for Norway. In addition, I have to mention the E6 Alta-Storsandnes. In addition, the Workers' Party has provided a majority to maintain, inter alia: Narvik airport. We are very pleased that the offer of Narvik and Fernes is being maintained. The working party considers it very important to have a well-developed airport network across the country, while at the same time pointing out that air transport is in many ways a public transport service on the short-haul network. The Labour Party will also point out that the joint aviation policy should be pursued. This means that parts of the surplus from the Avinor airports that are running in profit are going to cover the deficit at the Avinor airports that are running in deficit, as well as the appropriations for the regional airports. In the Communication, the Government briefed on possible changes to the regional airport structure. The Working Party will consider this when presenting a new case, as the rest of the Committee. The Labour Party sees it, as I said earlier, as very important to have a well-developed airport network across the country. That's why we want to focus on the fact that setting down small airports can often be more expensive than you know. There shall be very good reasons for shutting down an aerodrome and only after thorough processes in which all parties are well informed and, not least, involved. The working party asks in its comments the Government to consider whether a system similar to the alternative use of ferry subsidies can be established at aerodrome closure, i.e. that, when an aerodrome is closed, the municipalities, where appropriate the regions, may use the State transfers to the aerodrome concerned and the State support to the route for other transport purposes. The most important thing is that local communities and people should not lose sight of changes in the aviation structure. The stakes of the working party give rise in many areas. Overall, this will give employment to thousands of the 8,500 unemployed in the construction industry. This will ensure jobs across the country, while improving accessibility and providing safer transport solutions. Finally, I want to say two words about a fast-track museum. The majority, in which the Workers' Party is present, are asking for a matter of costs and operations that Stortinget asked for in the spring of 2004. Until the autumn of the 2005 draft budget, the Government must have information and proposals on this matter. We're in a hurry to get a clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1421	I am pleased that the Committee is largely in line with the objectives of the Government for the port sector and maritime transport. I also note that the Committee and the Government agree that a greater share of freight transport can be cooled. Maritime transport is important for housing, for business development and for the development of robust regions. Capacity problems on the main road network in Europe mean delays and higher costs for carriers at the end of the transport lines. Maritime transport provides less local pollution than road transport and should be an important element of the assessments and priorities carried out. Increased maritime transport can also help to reduce accident rates in the transport sector, as maritime transport is relatively safe. In order to strengthen maritime transport, the main challenge for ports is to become interesting and to develop into efficient transhipment terminals for door-to-door transport solutions, which include other modes of transport. Norwegian ports are, with the exception of state fishing ports, either municipal or private. This is in line with the choices made at an earlier date. Ports are not part of the State budget and are therefore not included in the economic framework of the national transport plan. I note that the Committee agrees with the Government that the public should own the infrastructure mainly as today. The government is very concerned that industry and state infrastructure planning have long-term and predictable framework conditions. Investments in ports and other land and maritime infrastructure are both heavy and time consuming. It is therefore based on the existing port structure, with an adjustment to two levels; national ports and other ports. But the users are the ones who ultimately decide and determine the port structure through their current choice of modes of transport. Therefore, it is also important that ports, through cooperation and on their own, contribute to becoming interesting in the future. The port structure will provide guidance for the State exposures in the port sector and, in particular, for State infrastructure investments. In order to strengthen ports and maritime transport, the Government, including as a follow-up to the NTP, will take a closer look at the fees and charges levied on maritime transport. I note that the majority of the Committee points out that the structure of fees must be aimed at stimulating more freight transport by boat. We will also look at the financing of the infrastructure. And as the Minister for Transport has been involved, it falls in particular within the annual budgets. Secondly, the aim is to stimulate port cooperation and port participation in local and regional planning processes. Cooperation between ports is important in order to promote maritime transport as a whole, and the representative Holten mentioned in this context the price-worthy cooperation initiative, such as: Borg port has taken in Eastfold, and which I hope will succeed. We also see a good climate for cooperation in Kristiansund and Bergen, for example. These are also ports which have a significant responsibility. Furthermore, it is important that we participate in this sector in international work and in international programmes that strengthen maritime transport. We can see that the Coastal Agency as a trade union is heavy within processes also in the European Union. Secondly, we are reviewing port and water legislation in order to design it as an even better tool for the development, operation and management of ports. The Committee says in its statement that it has noticed that the Government will present a separate case on oil protection preparedness, and I can confirm that we aim to present it around the turn of the year. Shipping is international, with a stronger emphasis on the threat of terrorism. In December 2002, the IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation, adopted rules to prevent terrorist attacks against ships in international traffic and their serving ports. The legislation enters into force from 1 July this year, and there has been a process in which ports have entered into in a very serious way. However, it is clear that this places costs on ports to a significant extent, the costs that they will have to cover in the next round, which in turn is a negative impact on other modes of transport. On the other hand, unless ports take seriously the IMO's obligations and objectives to prevent terrorist attacks and increase port security, ports will in many ways be sidelined. What is the challenge, and for which we are all responsible, is to find a good balance between complying with the legislation, keeping the ports safe and at the same time keeping the costs of transport down. The government’s transport policy, as presented in the National Transport Plan, will contribute to the development of maritime transport. In addition, the requirements for safe movement and preparedness for emergency contamination along the Norwegian coast are well complied with during the planning period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1454	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1457	The Production Coastal Agency represents a low level of competence in this country, but at the same time an important competence. Why, then, is it more important for the Government to turn this production company into an AS rather than seeking reasonable strategic alliances that can safeguard this competence? In concrete terms, why does the Council of State not consider a merger with Mesta?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1462	The size has been involved in the Production Coastal Plant and a separation. We have informed in NTP that we intend to establish the Coastal Production Plant as a State AS, and that the matter will be submitted to Stortinget. We will come back to that in the context of the budget proposal. From the government side, we have made an assessment of the different options, and it is clear that Mesta is an alternative. We have assessed it so that the experience with state limited liability companies can also be transferred to the Swedish Coastal Agency for Production, and therefore we have chosen to go further with it. Then we'd better get back to the details of the 2005 budget case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1467	SV will grant 100 million. kr more per. years to the Coastal Works to upgrade oil protection equipment - 1 billion DKK over 10 years. It's not random. We believe that it is necessary, and we are deeply concerned that in the future we will be able to protect our perhaps the most valuable and very vulnerable natural areas. On behalf of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs, Norske Veritas has recently produced a report on vulnerability, environmental threats and risks in the Barents Sea and northern Norwegian Sea. The report should make the alarm clock call. This concludes that the future risk picture tells us that, in all likelihood, a serious shipwreck will occur every eleven years and a massive oil spill every 45 years. The report has also calculated that the three ropeboats in the north do not cover the whole sea area. That's 10 pst. the possibility that the tanks will not be able to extend towing equipment to the ropeboats. In sum, that means that the ropeboats won't be able to help more than half of the breakdowns, 63 pst., to use the exact number in the Veritas report. This, of course, increases the risk of total failure and grounding My question to the Council of State is whether he agrees with Veritas' assessment and description of the risk of accidents in the Barents Sea, and whether the Council of State will follow Veritas, intensify efforts and give status to parts of the sea area as particularly vulnerable sea area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1476	As soon as this government joined, we got to grips with what was later a big message, in March of the second year we were sitting, about clean and rich seas, precisely because the government is taking seriously the increasing threat of increasing oil transport along the coast. There will always be risks associated with it. The challenge is to minimize it and be so prepared that we can deal with a situation. Therefore, the Government has taken a number of measures to improve safety and to be better able to deal with any accident. As part of that, we have also announced that we will come back to Stortinget with a big message, where we see all things in a context. In this context, we have asked professional authorities to develop risk analyses and analyses of the measures to be taken. We're going to get back to Stortinget during the fall, and the Stortinget will be there to decide both the measures and the level of funding. This is taken very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1481	In the context of the hearings related to NTP, many of the hearing authorities showed that there is a great need for better marking of the lease, especially the quick boat lead. So far, it's like every time there's been a slightly larger accident at sea, we make a ship's roof with repair and marking of the ladder right in the area where the accident has happened. I think we can all agree that this is not a good way of working. There must be a goal to be in front of, so that we can prevent the openings instead of trying to fix the defects afterwards. Is the Council willing to bet more on the marking of the ladder, so that we can get a little ahead, instead of always being behind what happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1489	My approach is, and I think it's more correct than the representative Ringstad admits, that precisely because we're constantly in the forefront, we have safe passage along the coast. Just because the Coast Guard and the Ministry of Fisheries have maintained safe traffic controllers, we have as few accidents as we have. But then it happens from time to time. Unfortunately, we have had the "Rocknes" accident, which required human life. Then you can later see that there could have been changes, and we're going to evaluate that matter. But in general, we have invested in traffic controllers, markings and not least in the measures taken after some accidents in the quick-boat ladders. So I'm going to say that we have a good preparedness. We have a good marking of the members. The annual budgets will also see this as a priority in the future. This is one of the most important tasks that the Coastal Agency has, yes, it's the main task to have safe traffic controllers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1494	I think the chapter on maritime transport in this message is one of the worst. It points to many problems and few solutions. As a result, a number in the Committee say that we do not see any good in what state instruments are intended to be associated with the most important ports. Nor has the level of costs associated with maritime transport been adequately addressed. I'm wondering how the Council of State intends to follow up on this comment from this plural. So I want to show that a minority, the Labour Party and SV, are asking for a case of environmentally friendly freight transport, port structure and a holistic system of tools to achieve the goal of increasing maritime and rail freight transport. Although this good proposal may be downgraded today, I don't ignore the fact that there are some elements in it that it might be interesting also for the council to evaluate and come back to Stortinget with. I would like his comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1501	I record the statement and see the comments made in the committee's vote. Of course, once the Storting has made its decisions, the Ministry of Fisheries, like the Government as such, will go through the setting-up and follow-up through annual budgets and by other means through the priorities of the transport sector. With regard to the ports, which I also explained in my main post, they are largely financed and owned by others than the state. The users, the municipalities and the regions are owners, and it is they who have the financial means first and foremost. The new thing is that, in connection with NTP, we put ports into an overall transport context, and in this way, investment in other infrastructure will benefit ports, and ports will be important elements of a comprehensive transport solution. The Committee and the Government want to strengthen maritime transport, but this is not only done through investments in ports. It's a complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1508	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1511	The Labour Party takes on board the fact that there is a lot of progress on the road trip across the country, and that the lag after what we should have done, what we should have promised money for, is huge. That's why we need to increase the rewards for both road, road, race, and public transport with billions of dollars during the next planning period. Of course, it is important that the parties follow up in the budgets each year. At least the working party shall follow up for its part, and then the governmental parties shall be held responsible for what they intend to do. But it is necessary, if the confidence of politicians is to be maintained, that one follows in the budget. Now, when it's for the railway, there's going to be a big bet on it. Clearly, when the railway was built in the last century, many sections are poor. Many sections have full capacity utilisation and therefore it is necessary that we spend NOK 10 billion more in the next planning period, so that we can get double tracks from Oslo to Hamar, Fredrikstad and Tønsberg. It will also provide room for double tracks around Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger, and it will provide room for crossing tracks and other absolutely necessary repairs. If we don't take it up now, we don't have that much to keep up with in the years ahead, because it's going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a In a state like Hordaland, however, it is important for business. It means a lot for people to be able to build and live and live in all these municipalities that are separated by fjords, separated by mountains - and it's expensive to build roads. But what the Labour Party is doing today, by increasing the framework, means that the important programme that Hordaland County has decided on when it concerns Hordaland and the Bergen Programme can become a reality. As we increase the framework as we do, it means that one can enforce and get a more rational development of important national road projects in the state. When one in addition increases the path to the coastal line, which the four counties in the West have prioritised as No. 1, it will be able to solve many of the challenges we have in Hordaland. Then one can also ensure that the start of the Svegatjørn-Rådal section will become a reality, and it is greedily important, even though not everyone thinks that tolls are necessary on this project. However, it is necessary when one comes to the reality that it is to be built, and everyone is in favour of it. When it comes to the Bergen programme, it is unlikely that a successful progress plan will give you the necessary permissions. Of course, the city route is the most important and has been the most mentioned, and the conversion of roadways will lead to traffic bypassing the centre. It is absolutely necessary both when it comes to the city track, as I said, and the Ringveg West and Skansen tunnel are not least important. There are three heads, I'd say, on the same troll, and it's important that all three of these elements are involved when the whole program is going to be implemented. In this populace area in Bergen is the expansion towards the west, where people well to build and bow, which is the most burdensome when it comes to the road network. Then I came to Sotrabrua, which today has a traffic of 25 000 cars every day. There is certainly no two-field bridge that has such a traffic in Norway. Obviously, it's a big tax. There's a big queue, and there's a need to do something about it. That's why I'm glad the case spokesman described it as a project that you have to come back to, maybe like a toll project, which would have to be done according to the old scheme. At least it has to be reviewed in particular. Finally, the Hardanger Bridge has been mentioned many times today, and what is in the setting, I would like to refer to: "The majority" - that is, everyone outside SV - asks that the issue of development and funding be submitted to the Stortinget as soon as possible." So one suggested that the cost of all that's going to be comes on the table. It is not such that one should install all the tunnels in the area and make it an expensive project that cannot be built, such as the Left tries to do today. There is a bridge going on as a project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1531	In the Communication on Road, Sea, Air and Railway Policy, the Government presents its strategy plan for the next 10 years. The previous roll-out of the national transport plan has been met with massive criticism, criticism of a level of ambition of another world, which it was not possible to fulfil. Therefore, this government has committed itself at a cost that can be proven to be met. We've chosen the virgin road, where there's little room for frivolous exesses. Norway is served by planning frameworks that withstand the brutal everyday life of budgetary processes. It provides predictability and stability in planning. National transport plan is a priority document and not an allocation document. The Government's framework does not prevent increased appropriations if resources are prioritised during the annual budgetary procedures. In the national transport plan debate, we meet the opposition's dream of a better and brighter tomorrow, a transport bet with juicy aisles, a high level of ambition and want to make the impossible possible. Realism in the opposition's proposals belongs to the very top air layers. The exercise is called "high jump with long run and guaranteed reefs". When the Workers' Party places the list high on what the Workers' Party has achieved in position, the dream faces a needy and sad budget day. An annual increase of DKK 3 billion over the last working party government budget reveals the conditions of hope in the budget struggle. No wonder the Labour Party and the Socialist Left dream of more money! The sociologists' view of trade is not in conversion mode. What cannot be gained through reinvigoration must necessarily be covered by major appropriations. The government's innovation and willingness to change represent a revolution in Norwegian commerce. NSB, Posten, Avinor and Mesta are exempt from State limited liability companies. Production units of the coastal works and of the railway works are given the same opportunity. Passengers and freight transport by rail and national ferries are opened up to new actors. Exclusion and diversity of actors stimulate creativity and improved resource management. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party defended and defended the monopolies and closed power environments in the Vegvesen, the NSB and the railway. The losses became passengers, user groups and taxpayers. The Bondevik government will do so differently. Open markets provide room for those with best organisation, best financial management, best technology, best adaptability and safety concept. A good and competitive rail offer has been made for more people to try out on their assignments. It will lead to critical analysis of its own organisation and stimulate creativity and sound resource management. In particular, railway organisations have been difficult to convert to a new reality. We believe that the Government must come back as soon as possible with a case concerning the separation of the Production Departments of the Railway Agency, at the latest in connection with the State budget for 2005. The government largely concentrates railway operations on the areas where the passenger base is the best, where the area button is the largest and the environmental effects are the safest, around and between the major cities and the InterCity triangle between Halden, Lillehammer and Skien/Porsgrund. It's a brave bet, and it blends well into the government's profile as the best environmental government ever. In addition, DKK 2.5 billion will be allocated to collective action in cities and DKK 2.6 billion to walking and cycling routes in the period. Environmentally friendly transport, with less car dependence in large cities, must be pursued. The new Transport Norway that the Government is building up is a good example of. Avinor has used his freedom as an AS to transform organisation and economy. The company faces exceptional challenges in increasingly expensive airport services on the regional network, imposed measures against terrorism and sabotage, and new airport design requirements. New technologies in the aviation security service also require considerable investment. Annual operating costs shall be reduced by 400 million through Take-Off-05. kr. Avinor’s employees, management and board of directors have dealt with significant challenges in an impressive way, such as a stand-alone, solution-oriented management company should. The government's tax haven, competition policy and the release of Avinor have greatly improved aviation's framework conditions. Modernization of the government has improved the conditions for users, and we experienced the greatest price drop on travel ever. This is how the Government has subdued the distance constraints in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1550	I am pleased that I came after the representative Gjeisar Kjästad, who fully confirms that this NTP from the Government does not deserve any enthusiasm. This NTP from the Government deserves only the attention that it is now making the craving that we have experienced over these years, science. It was a reasonable speech if you're going to find out what it's all about. It is dramatic because we are facing serious challenges, both in the city and on the land, on the road and on the road. There must be many people around the country who now have to note with amazement a political betrayal of dimensions, which is far from the case rapporteur for the previous NTP presented on his travels around the country, where he made fools of the frameworks represented by the Workers' Party, and put forward visions of money that would help to build the country, but which turned out to be what is now referred to as the Workers' Party's proposal, namely airlocks. So the reality for the Right has become a dangerous witness. That's what you're now trying to get away from by talking about the Little Realism of the Workers' Party. It is the Workers' Party that is to be accused of a breach of promises. But I can assure you, the Labour Party has presented a proposal that we have an idea to deliver. The Labour Party will stand by the frameworks that are now being presented, because it is important for the country to do so, and because the challenges require more than what has been given to this sector up to now. Good roads are a prerequisite for establishment, for people and for industry. We're going to give them good ways. We need to deal with queue problems, bottlenecks and serious road safety. That is why we are proposing 22 billion more than what is in the Government's proposal. We promise, we deliver, and we won't do a Oddvard Nilsen stunt in this context. It'll be possible to do something for the cities, and especially Oslo. The challenges in the metropolitan region are now being taken seriously. We'll take the Grorud Valley seriously. We take noise problems and environmental problems seriously, and we spend money that makes it possible to realise, among other things. The phosphatic diagonal. We spend money and make it possible to realize Ring 3 between the Sinsen and the Desert, which is an important prerequisite for a coherent road solution for the Groruddalen. We take up the Manglerud problems and say that the work must get started. There we have the committee with us, but it is important that it is mentioned. We have raised the question of the Mosseweg in the tunnel on several occasions. Now we've got an almost assembled committee to get this project going. But it is not this government that is to be credited with the fact that the Mosseweg project has now received a majority and strong support in the Committee. Public transport in Oslo is taken seriously through the proposal of the Workers' Party. By increasing the incentive scheme by DKK 1 billion, there will be a significant contribution to public transport in the Oslo area. With the Workers' Party's proposal, we do not limit the extension of the double track from Ski to Kolbotn, but we are spending money, so that we can continue the double track towards Oslo. We ask the Government to come back with a case on the organisation and financing of public transport, as well as to request that a programme for public transport be put in place overall in the Capital Region in the context of the Capital Message. We've raised the port question. A majority is uncertain whether what we have now been presented is good enough. The background is that it is difficult to see which State instruments are really intended to secure the public infrastructure investments needed to optimise the transport of goods to the main ports. It is an important prerequisite for making a decision. The Labour Party has made a good suggestion, so good that the government parties have to spend time attacking it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1571	National transport plan is a document that creates tremendous exposure in the counties. Thus, the treatment of the national transport plan also creates high expectations in all counties of the country. There's nothing to wonder about. Everyone needs good accessibility to perform their services and duties, and there really is a need for a great boost both on the road and on the road. This is not least true in my own country. There could have been a real downturn for the whole of Norway if the Government's proposal for a national transport plan had been undisputed. Instead, it becomes a historic boost for both road and rail. It is not often that we in the Workers' Party say like Ole Brumm: yes, thank you, both. Now we say both way and path. But I will continue a little bit on the story of Kristoffer Robin and Ole Brumm. Where are we going? asked Kristoffer Robin. Nowhere, said Ole Brumm. And then they went there. There goes also the government in this matter. I am pleased that the Labour Party has taken over the serious situation that could arise in the transport sector if we had not now made a proposal as monks. I am very pleased that we in the Labour Party receive subsidiary support for our proposal to increase the NTP framework by 22 billion kroner. I would like to commend both my own party groups on the Committee on Transport and the other members of the Committee on Transport, which provide their subsidiary support. Without the support of the Progress Party, SV and the Centre Party, it would, for example: no Eidanger tunnel in the foreseeable future. This bet will bring the railway between Larvik and Porsground from weathering to upgrading and ensure further operation on this route. And it's in the count's time! The railway line between Larvik and Porsground has a standard that belongs to old days. But it's a national railway project that Telemark has stuck to, a project that will be one of the proofs that we're still going to have a national railway in Norway, and that in turn will be a prerequisite for the interconnection of the Vestfoldbahnen with the Sørlandsbanen. We can now do this without the help of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, and with no so-called environmental party, the Left Party. The government has not provided anything to help hundreds of thousands of people in Grenland have a truly environmentally friendly communication and an acceptable travel time for example. Oslo. Today must be a real downhill for the game Right. There could have been a large number of quotes from previous transport debates in this room, where especially the Right has overheaded the Workers' Party for a lack of commitment on the road. Today, both the representative Løvik and the representative Kjästad suspect the socialists' willingness to invest in culture. The lot on the right has not been provided since they took up government offices to raise awareness, which is important for Veg-Norway. So it was just skinny bottlenecks. In the Government's proposal for a transport plan, the Right has been involved in taking out good transport projects - socially viable and important projects for District Norway. Århus-Gvammen on E134 is a good example of just that. The working party has added another 300 million. kr and will receive subsidising support so that this damaged project can find its solution without the Government. I think it is alarming to see the arrogance of the representatives of the government parties talking about the NTP. That this is a plan document and not a grant document is no news. But to make this plan an unprofessional plan that's just air money, as the representative Anne Berit Andersen does, I think I'm quite tired, not least because it's the government's own plan they're talking about. We're totally dependent on having long-term and predictable planning if we're going to get to a good infrastructure. And it's a bit of a greeting from the Right to all those who are now promised money for racial protection, road projects and railway. It must be an expression that the Government does not like long-term planning that is important and creates jobs and optimism. Finally, I am very pleased that the Transport Committee sees the need to complete the start-up road project. It hasn't always been like that. Rv 38, the entrance to Kragerø, is such a project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1590	Good district policy must have many elements in it. Among other things, a good infrastructure is of the utmost importance. If there's no roads -- and then I think of good, safe roads -- it's hard to talk about settlements and jobs out in the districts. Good, safe roads need to be provided, for example: families with children must be able to build and live in view of the future. Business must have roads so that they can transport their goods out and raw materials/finished goods in. Good roads need to ensure the proper functioning of the service provision. Hedmark and Uppland have long been at the bottom of getting funds. When I strongly want more funds for, among other things, Hedmark, it's because this county's transport goes either by road or by rail. There is no maritime or air transport. So to say all the counties have such an offer, except for the two mentioned counties Uppland and Hedmark. Hedmark also has its third longest national and county road network. This requires constant repair due to wear and tear, and it needs not least repairs. Here Rv 3 can be mentioned, where there is also large transit transport. In the case of transit, Hedmark is the largest transit country. There is transport across the national border towards Uppland, and mainly northwards on the former mentioned row 3. ==References== 90 pst. of all the goods by road go through the Østerdalen -- I now think transit. In sum, Hedmark has approx. 7 pst. of the public road network in Norway, but in the last few years it has been on a budget of about 200 million people. 3 pst. Here, there's a big difference, and with the wear and tear our roads get, the standard gets ever worse and worse. You can't take the difference back if you don't give new, larger appropriations. And unfortunately, it's just the Progress Party that wants and wants to do something that really helps. Otherwise we'll be glad that Rv 2 has come on the map with a quick start to plant, and parts of E6 will have four fields. It's just a shame things take so long here in Norway. When the need is there and there is money in the Kingdom, planters exist, machines exist, yes, everything is there, all politicians should say a resounding yes to development/improvement where necessary, throughout Norway. A good transport policy across Norway also has a lot to say for our trade balance, because large parts of the country’s production of goods depends on a good name. If we do, transport will be able to take place faster, more reasonable, safer and not least much more economically. We can make maximum use of wagon equipment, thereby reducing costs and making goods cheaper and Norway more competitive. Another element that the Progress Party is thinking about when we develop our transport policy is the safety of those who travel along our roads, whether on foot, on bicycles or driving in some way. Therefore, money to repair is of the utmost importance. There are too many road sections in Norway where it is simply dangerous to travel. There are school roads that are so dangerous that parents refuse to let their children go or ride to and from school, because the traffic is too large in relation to the road, and that the road is generally too dangerous due to its design and not least the standard. That's why we have to do something about this. A life cannot be valued in money. Cost-benefit is a good way to calculate our investments in road, track, air and water. But we also have to be able to look at the distances where accidents happen all the time. When the accident is there, it's too late to undo something you didn't do, but should have done. This is why, among other things: the greatest importance of providing more money to roads with a high level of congestion in relation to the standard of the road. These include: Consider 3 as a good example. The road should be 8,5 meters by standard, and repaired in many places. This has been understood by the Progress Party, and we are proposing to increase the planning framework for the period 2006-2009 by a total of 400 million. kr, and for the whole period 2006-2015 by 600 million. kr, in addition to the Government’s proposal. In addition to the Government’s proposal, the Progress Party has also proposed increased funds for a number of other sections of Norway. The other parties should have done the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1618	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1621	There was a lot of sore talk from the Workers' Party at the end of this debate. This must mean that we've probably trotted on a sore toe. I think this sore toe is that you see that the majority you thought you didn't really have. The Labour Party has spread through the media the impression that there is a majority in favour of an increase in the transport budget of NOK 22.5 billion. But we have had it clearly demonstrated here that the SV and the Progress Party are moving in the opposite direction. And then we're told that's the choice we have to trust. We have to trust the election! The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is I thought it was the two supporting parties we needed to trust. But as I experience it here, one at full speed is away from the totality of what you've given or will come to give your support to. In that way, there might be reason to be a little hurt because we've just pointed it out in this debate. So a little bit of St.prp. No 62, the so-called aggregation proposition, where I am the rapporteur for the vote. I'll just briefly explain some of the issues in it. The government briefs on and submits proposals on Tromsøpacket 2. A large majority of the Committee's members agree with the Government's proposal to continue the scheme for four new years - a scheme that will finance key infrastructure measures in the city of Tromsø. Further information is provided on the work being done on the Namdals project in the Nord-Trøndelag, which has received considerable exceedances. A joint committee is pleased that the Swedish Road Administration has started a process against the municipalities and county councils to find solutions to the situation based on the leaders of the Stortinget. It also briefs on the outsourcing of the production activities of the Railway Agency to be carried out in connection with the State budget for 2005. A majority have taken note of the orientation, while two large minorities have critical comments. Finally a little about the Hurtigrutemuseet at Stokmarknes. The government is briefing that they need a little longer time to be able to present a case to the Stortinget on a fundamental basis. We will have it in the 2005 budget. Let there be no doubt that the Christian People's Party will take care of the Hurtigrutemuseet on the Stokmarknes and mountain the fast route ship "Finnmarken", which has been taken ashore. We are meeting the Government's proposals in the 2005 budget, and are already signaling that we are prepared to find a solution for the museum and the boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1639	Business in the West is highly export-oriented. It is perhaps the most important export region in Europe. In fact, the whole nation depends on the export-oriented industry being given a framework of transport and communication conditions that ensure optimal competitiveness. It is therefore gratifying that several important and long-term projects have received a positive NTP report. I want to mention specifically the Coastal Path E39. Along this route are a number of the main export companies in Norway. An initiative by the county rapporteurs in More and Romesdal, Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland and Rogaland has been listened to, and the Storting will come back to that. The Kristiansand-Stavanger-Bergen-Ålesund stretch is also one of the most heavy freight sections in the country. However, transport costs and not least time costs are twice the cost of competitors. At E39 in Hordaland, Romarheimsdalen, Nyborgtunnelen and some important projects in Bergen are given priority. But most of all, it is enough that the continuation in a divided traffic lane towards Bergen and further on towards Os now seems to have its clarification. All honours to Os and Bergen municipality for constructive work and construction. Now we have to centrally follow up from the department and big business. The time between our two second largest city centres from Stavanger/Sandnes past Sunnhordland and Haugesund to Bergen is twice the equivalent distance travelled elsewhere. Therefore, the goal must be to have a free E39 between Bergen and Stavanger. Another project, which I will also draw out, is the road tunnel through Ulriken. It is also positively mentioned in the NTP. This is very joyful. This is a project of high utility value, and it can probably be realised without public funds, if necessary. Finally, for the Right as the only party that unanimously supported Hardangerbrua the last time it was up in Stortinget, it is a pleasure that now in Stortinget there is a willingness to move on with the project. That's why a big day in Hardanger, a next man, the hard man Erlend Nornes, will say more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1656	A broad majority of the Committee on Transport, including the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Advance Party and all three governmental parties, have a comment in the vote that Hardangerbrua will be in the Stortinget as soon as possible. This is very good news for Hardanger. Over 20 years of planning, waiting and hope can now hope to be added to a start-up decision in 2006-2007. Pessimism can be turned into optimism. I would therefore like to thank the case spokespersons and the rest of the committee who have contributed to this. I'm also pleased with the clarification Ranveig Frøiland had at the end of his post instead, about routes of administration. It was simply very important. Right has been an active driver of this important transport project, since the idea of a bridge over Hardangerfjord in the early 1970s was presented as something more than airy dreams. At that time, there was a build-up in the interior of Hardanger, and it was a political settlement in Hordaland that parts of the future county power revenues were to be attributed to the municipalities that had to give away parts of their natural wealth, in the first row of Eidfjord municipality. A decent and free connection over Hardangerfjord was a very sweet one at that time, and has not become less strong nor less important over the years, on the other hand. Hardanger's workplaces have concentrated mainly on power-intensive industries, agriculture and tourism. In recent years we have seen a regular race in the number of workplaces before industry, and the population of Hardanger has gone down steadily for the last 15 years. Businesses with hundreds of jobs are gone, and others have more than halved the workforce. To compensate for so many lost jobs without losing population, a more flexible labour market needs to be created, a labour market that is not shared by a fjord. Hardanger will in practice make much of Hardanger and Voss a common labour market. It is the youth who is to ensure that there is still a build-up and activity in Hardanger. Our society is characterized by urbanization, the city lures with all its offerings and proximity to most. If we are to avoid Hardanger and for the rest of District Norway becoming a place of special interest, we politicians have to take responsibility. If we want to build a settlement in District Norway, all right? From the youth of Hardanger, the signals are clear: Without the free crossing of the fjord, Hardanger is not the first choice. The county council in Hordaland has had Hardangerbrua on top of its priority list every year since 1989. There's been a big and real local involvement in the work to get Hardanger Bridge in place. It means a lot like a hub for traffic in all of South Norway, but it means a lot to Hardanger in particular. She can be built without state funding, and while the ferry ticket has to be paid forever, she can be crossed free after 15 years. Right-wing representatives will also work actively in the future to ensure that the project reaches final management in Stortinget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1675	It's a historic boost when the bulk of the population now increases the economic framework of road and rail by 22 billion kroner. In time, probably a lot of people would say. In addition to a historic promise, it is realistic to follow up on the annual budgets ahead. So this obligates, no matter who is in government. It has to be clear. It is building the country when a rate of important infrastructure such as road and rail. Upland receives a good and absolutely necessary share of the proposed pesticides. This is to the delight of many who for years have fought to get their way high enough on the priority list in the county. There is reason to thank the bulk of the population for proposing to speed up the construction of Rv4, so that once the road is completed against Raufoss, the natural continuation should be to extend Rv4 through Gran and Lunner. It's cost-effective. That the bulk of the population also takes responsibility for Rv 35 through Jevnaker is very good. The road is incomplete, but is a large bottleneck in the east-west connection in the inland, so there is still a large part through Jevnaker. The roadway has been regulated since 1996, and it is a main road. It's important to notice that it's assumed that they're extra 100 million. kr, which the majority now grants to Rv 35 through Jevnaker, shall be seen in conjunction with the Government’s 60 million proposals. NOK, which has been added to Rv 35. This is an important premise. It should therefore be possible to get a very good piece on the road through Jevnaker, i.e. Rv 35. We also get more money for the E6 through Uppland and for repairs on the Gjøvik Railway. The only thing that is sad is that the Gjøvik Railway is to be tendered. In any case, it must be set as a condition for sufficient take-offs and enough stopping points, so that it can be, namely a good and real collective offer to all those who commute from the Hadeland region to Oslo every day. Of course, the fact that Ferne's airport, Leirin, is still secure, is also very good. All in all, what is to be adopted today is good for Uppland. So I'm just saying thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1692	The Labour Party will have a majority in favour of its proposal to increase the framework by 22 billion kroner over the next 10 years. This provides opportunities for necessary investments in rail and road transport and for a commitment to public transport. In particular, it is important in a central area where the country’s tribal roads and rail transport meet. Good traffic veins are essential for both business and private transport and facilitate more environmentally friendly traffic. Social inclusion is also a good employment policy. As a representative of Akershus, I would like to highlight some of the priorities that come to my county and specifically Asker and Bærum. Firstly, I am pleased that public transport is coming up high, and that the continuation of the start of the development of a new double track on the Lysaker-Asker route is a priority. I am pleased that the Workers' Party and a majority stress that the route is completed as early as possible during the planning period, and that Lysaker Station needs to be expanded in order to get full use of the track capacity. This is also a key factor in establishing the future traffic diversion from Fornebu. A collective solution to the Lysaker station is essential for the expansion to take place at Fornebu, with 6,000 dwellings and 15 000 jobs. I therefore take it for granted that the Minister for Transport will follow up his promise in an answer to me in the Questionnaire this spring about a state contribution of up to 600 million. kr to a path solution for Fornebu. The working party will also spend NOK 1 billion more on the reward scheme for public transport. This mechanism has helped to relaunch the Colsåsbane on a temporary basis. And there are several good projects. Secondly, the government provided the Stortinget with a poor starting point for the possibility of a further follow-up to plans for the development of E18. I am therefore particularly pleased that the Labour Party and a majority on the Stortinget underline the traffic problems on the E18 in the West Corridor and that this also causes a significant environmental impact in the area. The majority refers here to the plans to realise a new, environmentally friendly E18 and to work on different solutions, including a OPS project based on approximately full user payment, and considers that this should be further explored and re-assessed at the next roll-out of NTP. I remember the current Vice President in the Right, Jan Tore Sanner, who promised in the 2001 election campaign that only the Right came in position, we would get a new E18 immediately. This opening for a further assessment, which I think is positive, is the only realistic possibility for the deployment of the E18, and it has come, not from a mountain, but from a cross-political commitment and from local drivers. Thirdly, I am pleased that a significant part of the framework of the Sandvika-Bergen tribal road will be able to complete the planned development of E16 on the Wøyen-Bjørum route. In its proposal, the Workers' Party has also increased the limits of the Hamang-Wøyen by 100 million. kr and assumes a maintenance of the project in connection with the follow-up of the route to Bjørum. A large majority will also have an assessment of the further route of Sandvika-Hønefoss in the rolling of NTP, justified by traffic hazards and poor performance. I see here the possibilities for a further expansion of E16 over Solli Height. The needs and needs of the transport sector are almost exhaustive. Everyone could have wanted more, but I am satisfied with the investment on the railways, roads and public transport for Oslo and Akershus. It is precisely the link between the years of migration in the key population areas that is important. Then it remains to be seen whether we are doing well to raise the investments in the national transport plan into the annual budgets. We must then give priority to road, rail and public transport over tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1715	In Telemark, and in the border area in particular, there was great disappointment when the Government's proposal for a national transport plan became known and it became clear that nothing would be done with the route between Larvik and Porsgrund, often referred to as the Eidanger Tunnel, in the next ten years. In almost all European countries, there has now been a deliberate and offensive effort to upgrade and reconstruct the rail network for many years, including: as a strategy to address the major land and environmental challenges associated with an increasing volume of transport. During the same period, Norway has gone in the opposite direction under changing governments and several large numbers - almost total absence of something that is close to an offensive railway operation. While the rail operation between large and medium-sized urban areas in other European countries has given a faster and more frequent train service, and with increasing traffic as a result, the corresponding lack of railway development in this country has led to the loss of rail links towards Westfold and the Oslo area by Grenland - a metropolitan area of 100,000 inhabitants on a Norwegian scale. Due to a prehistoric driving pattern between Larvik and Porsground, where the driving time is unreasonably long, and where there are major technical and safety challenges, naturally enough passengers fail and more and more take-offs are replaced by buses. A year ago, 6 out of 20 train departs from the Skies in the direction of Oslo were operated by bus on the route to Larvik or Sandefjord. In the new routes that took effect now on Sunday, 10 out of 19 departures are operated by bus to Larvik. This only shows that the train offer is being built. And the NSB said in clear terms at a very well-attended public meeting on the Eidanger Tunnel in Porsgrund on 24 May this year that future train traffic between Larvik and Grenland depends on the Eidanger Tunnel being built during the planning period. In other words, the Government is deliberately proposing that the train link between the capital and one of Norway’s most populous urban areas be closed. So this is what the Right Proprietor characterises as a revolution in culture. Both in the current NTP, in the plan we are discussing today, and in the individual state budgets, SV has proposed a strong railway effort, including in the case of the Eidanger tunnel. We are therefore pleased that today, by means of subsidiary voting, there is a majority in favour of increased investment in rail, which also allows the construction of the Eidanger tunnel to start in the first part of the planning period. This is essential for a good transport solution for Telemark and Grenland. Then both I and the inhabitants of my county are aware that it is the appropriations in the next few years' government budget that will ultimately decide when and whether construction can start. This is why it is so vital that, after the elections next year, there will be a new government and a new large majority consisting of parties that have a sincere desire to invest on the railways in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1730	The Workers' Party will increase the framework of the National Transport Plan by DKK 22 billion compared to the Government's proposals. That's very good. That these billions are distributed between road and track is positive and necessary. Now that we're getting a majority of our proposals, we're going to give transportation a real boost over the next ten years. The government parties in Stortinget suffer defeat, and they don't like it today. It is transport policy in the Eastfold region and the Oslo region that is closest to my heart, and will therefore also mark my contribution. The Workers' Party wants to bet on the railway and will require the construction of the double track between Oslo and Fredrikstad. It shall take place in the first part of the period. In this area not only the cars are in line, but also the trains. The government party comment in the setting is wrong. It can be seen that the costs of railway tunnels through Moss, including the Sandbukta-Moss sub-carriage station, are about costing. 1.3 million. kr. The railway works do not want the extraction track, and that is okay. It's going to save 160 million. kr. The station may be financed by, inter alia: parking and shops, etc. That's a saving of 400 million. kr. And then we're left with the cost of the tunnel itself, 800 million. kr. But if we look back at the NTP for 2002-2011, it says that the clearance of the areas where today's rail tracks are going has a value of 120 million. kr. Those are great areas for expansion. Moss municipality has money on book, equivalent to 30 million. kr, because they are the tolling communautaire, and they would like to spend this money on this project. I would like to remind you that the railway tunnel is part of Eastfold-packed Phase 1 which the Stortinget has previously agreed to. So, let's go. E6 can be completed in 2007 if the Minister of Transport and the Stortinget will - without further appropriations. What is needed is that today's Minister of Transport gives a clear signal that the tender papers can be sent out before the summer holiday and that the decision to borrow will be taken shortly over the summer. I ask the Minister for Transport to confirm this. It will save lives. E18 through Eastfold is the second most important transport corridor abroad. The working party also assumes that the E18 will be rescheduled within the increased funds currently adopted. I would like to remind you that the municipalities and county councils concerned have adopted an increase in tolls both with a collection over several years and with an amount higher than the usual price increase. However, if there is no service, there will be no basis for such an increase, and then the whole decision will fall away.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1750	There is yet another reason to recall that NTP is a priority tool and not a budget. As regards the budget and the increased framework in this matter, we will come back to it in the context of the budget now to the harvest. When the Committee on Transport now has a whole seven issues to deal with in one debate, it is natural to come back to a few of them, namely Inner. S. No 222 and Innst. S. No 261. It's a historic day linked to the Imarsund project. It is a major transport project that we have every reason to welcome. This happens with the help that we can now use vacation release solvents. When the Government has now submitted proposals for the development and financing of the Imarsund link in Møre and Romesdal, the principle of alternative use of savings in ferry fees as set out by the Stortinget is used. The country may also now be able to create a number of local community projects that replace ferry links with good future mainland connections. There is every reason to commend the parties involved that they have now been able to identify schemes that make this type of project possible. Int. S No 222 is there a number of issues that one could really have affected. I just want to limit myself to touching two. There is a need for permanent monitoring of the Oslofjord tunnel in order to increase the safety of this facility, which is expected to increase traffic over time. It has created uncertainty that there have been serious technical problems in this tunnel, with water and fall of stone in the roadway. Furthermore, it should also be possible to be concerned that the construction of middle parts of E6 in Eastfold is very important. This is a crisis aid of great importance. At the E6 in Eastfold, we have already experienced the need for a temporary solution, so that we avoid the problem of the encountering traffic. This may be done by using the middle parts. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee agrees that the Government can take a closer look at this matter in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1763	In my post, I'm going to get into what's called the Namdal project, in the North Trøndelag. I guess that's Norway's smallest bomber project. I know with certainty that when this project was adopted locally, it was a very controversial project. Despite the elected majority in the local government after much about and but going for the project, and recommended the Namdals project started. When that decision was made, it was of course such that one had a basis for decision that was weighed for and against. The entire basis of the decision was drawn up by the State Road Administration. In that decision-making framework, of course, there was a thorough review of what was expected to cost the entire project, and not least how much toll you would be able to get. Today we know, after a short time, that everything indicates that the decision base was fundamental error. So far, the forecasts indicate that revenue will fail at 80 million. kr, while costs will increase by 70 million. NOK, which is a basis that gives an error of 150 million. kr. I think I would say it so strongly that if we had known in Namsos what we know now, the Namdals project would never have been adopted locally. But it's adopted, it's implemented, and we have to deal with it. The discussion must now be: what should we do to get the best out of this difficult situation? My approach to it must be that the Namsos community through the Namdals project has committed itself to raising 150 million. kr in tolls. Although there was a commitment that was based on wrong forecasts, the Namsos community has to admit that it has to raise the 150 million. kr. But then it must also be that the state has to build the project that was planned. So the state has to be willing to cover the increased costs that turn out to have come because it's miscalculated. The State cannot discharge its responsibilities. We must take care of this in the further work on the matter. For the Workers' Party, this will be important in the treatment of the State budget in the autumn. What is gratifying is that the framework adopted for national roads in the treatment of the national transport plan today can make a strong contribution to finding a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1778	A few years ago, a known butcher said, "Put a slut in the well and wish you something." Well, that's where we're at the very moment. You throw some sluts into the well and want some things to mark what's important, both in the short and long term, in the individual states around our country. For my part -- I'm from Buskerud -- it's clear that there are some things that are more important than others. First of all, we're going to finish what we've started, and we're going to get a grip on something that's almost like a workshop. And when I think about the workshop, I don't least think about the Ramsrudhängen, and I think about the connection to the cross-link under the Oslofjord for Lier. The way to find a solution will be crucial in Lier, not least in terms of road safety for the soft road users. Today, traffic passes through an area where there is only a short distance from the walkway and children on their way to and from school. I am glad that there are indications of solutions to this. I would also like, when I snuck "a coin into the well", that it had been possible to complete the Road Package Drama as originally planned. But I assume that it is now possible to do so, subject to the agreements concluded between the municipality, county and state. Then there's another point that I'm still coming back to, and that's important to us in Buskerud. This is the environmental situation in Steinsfjorden, which I am also pleased to be told that you will come back to when you deal with the action programme. You don't know the exact cost of this at the moment, but at least 70 million is suggested. kr. Road development is important for various reasons. Even during the previous election campaign, I had a joy to be a passenger in a trailer that drove the Ramsrudhältingen. It wasn't much stutter, because I was thinking of those poor people who could meet us when we drove down the slopes, because we had to go all the way out on the left side of the road to get the trailer through in the narrow turns. It was a regular trailer, which was approved for Norwegian roads. Here's something that's important to prioritize and get in place. I hope that it will come as soon as possible, as proposed, in cooperation, with a partial toll financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1791	The national transport plan is important for each country, although the plan provides national leadership. For Buskerud there are many things to rejoice over. As the previous representative also had in mind: Double highway bridge in Drammen path in the weather, Kreftingsgate and Ober Sund Bru and new Kleivene tunnel are within the government's proposal. But the ministry said in response to the committee that the municipality of Drammen had broken its part of the agreement, and that the last road section of the package, which was also covered by the previous representative, Svelvikvegen, was therefore not included in the plan. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the agreements are followed up. In our alternative proposal, we're increasing the frames of other highways by 290 million. kr for Buskerud his associate. Therefore, this road can be built without touching on other projects and the priorities that the county has done. Rv 23 had 150 million from the government's side. kr for small repairs. In our alternate budget, we have a plus 150 million. kr. Then they actually have the money to complete the connection to E18, so the whole Vassum-Lier pair, i.e. the Oslofjord crossing feedway, is now in order with extended toll bases. The Steinsfjord must be afraid. With the Worker's Party's 50-million prize. kr may come a long way when it comes to replacing the road flooding. Then the kids can bathe again, and the crab trunk gets scared. It's urgent, because this is a ticking environmental bomb. The recovery of Ramsrudhänningen and Sokna-Ørgenvika has received 150 million. kr. These projects may be started and they may have to be viewed in context. But the most enjoyable thing is actually that the Ringerix course can get a start. It's on the Railway Agency's list. With the trasé choice that the Stortinge made a few years ago, there will be no path. Henfoss as a city is divided into two. That's $1 billion more. But it's possible to choose a trajectory where people live, and where we take even more care than in the previous round we had with this case, so that we're going to happen even further away from the Ramsar areas. We have to figure out a trasé choice that means that the path can be built in a sensible way. So I just have to tell you about the aggregation proposition, St.prp. No 62: The Labour Party opposes the transformation and postponement of BaneProduction and BanePartner and does not oppose the postponement of the proposal after 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1809	Case No. 7 debt development and financing of the Imarsund project. This project has a long history. It's a mile we're going to round today. The so-called Furnes Committee, the leader of the County Spokesman Kjell Furnes, presented in 1976 a position for Mr Møre and Mr Romsdal in charge of the development of rural relations on the Outer North Sea. Until now, this plan has been followed to the point and the point. According to that plan, the time has now come for the bridge and road between Aure and Tustna municipalities. The original plan was right enough so that the curtailment of the ferry route to Smøla would go over the historic island of Sunshine. This would probably be a better solution, both for Tustna's inhabitants on the island and for Smøla. But local authorities in the three municipalities, Aure, Tustna and Smøla, have come up with the solution that is on the table today. This is done thoroughly for in the message from the Government and also here in the hall today. All credit to the two municipalities of Aure and Tustna, which have taken full account of the fact that they are now being connected in a communication way. As a matter of fact, the Folkeöståst om kommunesammægning gave a plurality that, when the connection is finished, it becomes a coastal municipality from the border with the South-Trøndelag to Kristiansund. Financially, the Government and the Storting have accepted the principle of using ferry costs for the construction of fixed lines. This is the future of the highway. But it's actually been tried before in county direction in this area. I'm thinking about the Aursundet project. It was added to $30 million. kr by bringing down a stretch of suspension. The ferry was closed before the connection was built, and the builders had to take the load of a significant rerun. But in this area, one would have been used to need something to make progress in the transport sector. Therefore, it is with great faith that this will go well, that a large majority vote for this project today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1820	Hedmark has spread settlements, but here too there are smaller towns and cities that have grown relatively strongly. Should Hedmark exist, and export its products, we depend on the infrastructure to withstand this transport. We cannot produce houses for sale in Moelv or furniture in Eidskog if we do not have good roads to transport the goods out of the county. There is a great need for more money for the interior, which sorely needs a better focus on transportation. I would like to mention here the need for the consolidation of the construction of new Rv 2 and E6 as well as a deliberate policy for the Røros railway in the area of freight and timber transport, which will mean a relief for Rv 3. The aim of the Workers' Party is to move, as far as possible, passenger and freight transport from road to rail. But let me say that today I am happy that the appropriations for transportation are going in the right direction. I would like to pay tribute to the members of the Workers' Party in the Committee on Transport and to those parties which support the Workers' Party's emphasis on the need to support the development of Stage 1 Rv. The working party proposes to increase the funding for the project by 300 million. kr in the period, and I hope I can get a majority here in the hall today. The will to make a larger contribution to getting the four-field highway from Gardermoen to Lillehammer is great. In Hedmark, more than 50 pst is assessed. tolls shall be financed in order to achieve this objective more quickly than waiting for public appropriations. For E6, the start of a four-field road should be ensured in 2007. It's urgent. There have been too many accidents on the E6 in recent years on the Gardermoen-Colomoen route. Of course, I could have wanted even more money for the transport sector - not least for Rv 3, which is a transit route for heavy transport, but the proposal from the Workers' Party is a major step in the right direction. I would like to quote left-wing leader Sponheim's words that the regional policy challenges we face in the country are essentially domestic issues. And then Hedmark needs good roads. I have listened to the debate and heard the government parties chatter with the Workers' Party's proposal for increased appropriations and call it air money. Yes, here really speaks Right, Christian People's Party and Left of Experience. But I can tell the government parties that it is actually not the Workers' Party that is the worst in terms of broken promises in the field of transport policy. It's actually the government parties that do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1837	The main roads between Norway’s two largest cities face major challenges. The line E16 Sandvika-Hønefoss has been run by central politicians from most parties, all of which have expressed great concern. It is a stretch where the risk of accidents is high and prevents efficient transport for business. The Sandvika-Hønefoss stretch has a high traffic load. The traffic between Oslo and Bergen, whether it chooses to continue E16 after Hønefoss or Rv 7 up Hallingdal, and a significant weekend traffic to Hallingdal and Valdres runs here. I am therefore pleased that the passages Hamang-Wøien and Wøien-Bjørum, located in the municipality of Bærum, are part of the Government's proposal for a national transport plan - the latter project starting in the first part of the planning period. However, there is no doubt that the rest of the road between Sandvika and Hønefoss will require increased attention from road authorities. Therefore, it is positive that all lots, with the exception of the Progress Party, have joined a note indicating that the route between Sandvika and Hönefoss is dangerous and of poor performance and that the same majority is asking for an assessment of this in the context of the next rolling of the national transport plan. This note is also an important signal of the regional initiative taken to contribute to alternative funding. In order to give priority to E16 between Sandvika and Hønefoss in the next roll of NTP, it is important to focus on E16. Therefore, strong focus on the Ringerix track can interfere with this work. It's not always wise to ride two horses at once. Then you can risk sitting without both the road and the track. On this route, there is also a project that is primarily an environmental project, namely the removal of road flooding at Steinsfjorden. In this context, the majority have supported this project with a State framework of 50 million. kr. First of all, this isn't enough, the cost would be at least 70 million. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the reason that the government parties are not involved in this publishing house is not that you do not see the necessity of and are positive for cleaning up the stone fillings. The reason is that projects on this scale are not commonly referred to in NTP. Therefore, the government parties in the setting say that you are positive about the project and will come back to it when dealing with the action program. I register that the extra bet from the Workers' Party has caused it to drip extra means of transport in most regions. I don't mind that there's going to be more money in my district, but it's going to be throwing blues in the eyes of people when the Busherud representative from the Workers' Party in the Committee on Transport says to the local press that the extra be financed with future tax reliefs. It becomes strange to bet that others are going to finance one's own promises by means that you initially disagree with finding out. I suppose at least this means that the representative Eng does not believe that the Workers' Party will come into the government position with the first, because then there will be no tax relief to finance the Workers' Party's promises in connection with the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1858	When the Right Chief Speaker, Petter Løvik, in this debate, warns against realism in the opposition's proposal to spend NOK 22 billion more, among other things. on the road and rail as proposed by the Government, he may speak of experience. He represents the largest government party, which now has to admit that they are not able to fulfill many of the promises contained in the Sem Declaration. They don't do it with regard to tax relief, they didn't do full child care coverage by 2003, and they haven't done it by road and rail. The increased effort of the Workers' Party in terms of railway development is absolutely necessary in order to be able to build on the positive development of the NSB now in many sections. It is important that the capacity is built out where the railway has its greatest advantage and where it can relieve an overloadd road network. About eight out of ten who use the train travel in the triangle Oslo-Hamar, on the Eastfold Railway and on the Westfold Railway. That's why it's important, above all, to expand the capacity with new double tracks. I hope it will be possible to have a majority in favour of this, even when the annual budgets are to be adopted, even if there is now subsidized support for the framework. I think we must all recognise a collective responsibility for the fact that the necessary expansion of railway track capacity has not come before. Already at the end of the 1980s, Stortinget joined the plan of a continuous double track to Halden by the turn of the century. So far, this double track is not yet reached until Moss. However, a new rail giver cannot replace the development of the road network, even in areas where the railway will be a good alternative to the car and relieve the roads. The Capital Region is a major crossroads and will also be able to choose between trains rather than cars. It requires a modern road network, not only for capacity reasons, but also for traffic reasons - perhaps primarily for the last reason. It is gratifying that the setting opens the way for further refurbishment of E6 through Østfold, so that the road can be completed during 2007 as originally planned and for refurbishment of the E18. This applies to the country's main veins in and out of the country, and is important for business throughout the country. The representative, Odd Holten, was disappointed that the Workers' Party did not agree with the government's positive remark on civil air traffic at Rygge. Now the government is the concession authority, not the Storting. The Air Safety Authority has recommended a concession. I feel confident that the government council will then grant concession, but the government parties may not feel as sure as they are that it will be the outcome, since they need to say what they say.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1873	National transport plan is an important document, not only because it sets out the national objectives for the transport sector for the years to come, but also because it provides important signals for important transport policy measures beyond the whole country. Therefore, few documents are read with as much interest as the national transport plan and the attitude of the Committee on Transport to it. Lights and lamps shall be used to check whether one’s know-how or route is mentioned and whether the required guidance for the desired propulsion has been provided. So also in my home state of East Agder. East Agder is a state without an aerodrome, so road and rail are important, both as passageways and as internal communication in the county. For East Agder, a good E18 is crucial. E18 goes through the whole state, from east to west, and is the main communication year both internally in the state, towards Kristiansand and further west, and not least towards Oslo and the Central East. A further expansion and extension of the Oslo-Kristiansand route is therefore important. I am very pleased with the significant increase that is now involved in the development of this route. The completion of the four-field road through Vestfold is also important for us who live further south. That the OPS project between Grimstad and Kristiansand can now be carried out in the first four-year period is very pleasing after many years of local discussion about the route. I'm glad that the trasé choice is now decided, so that this distance can get the necessary quality. There is a distance where almost no repairs have been made since 1960, and something has really happened with both car density and driving habits in these years. I am also very pleased that the majority of the committee has found reason to mention the line Tvedestrand-Arendal in the vote. This distance will be one of the few, if not the only, that will not have a satisfactory standard at the end of the period. The ball is now placed with the local planning authorities. The necessary decisions and decisions must now be taken locally, so that the Committee's comment that the Government will return to this line at the next roll of the NTP can be realised. As a local politician in East-Agder, I have been very concerned about the connection between the South and Westfold Railways. I believe that this link is very important for the future of the railway as an important communication vein in the South. The link, which is to be made with a new line between Porsgrund and Gjerstad in East Agder, is strongly supported by the Railway Forum South, with five county municipalities as drivers. A prerequisite for this coupling to come in a not too distant future is the construction of the Eidanger tunnel. The signals given in the setting of the Eidanger tunnel at the end of the planning period are therefore not only important for intercity traffic to and from the Ski, but also a prerequisite for further planning and work on the coupling path.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1882	Political courage and leadership are about drying up, not promising everything and then not following it up. The Minister of Transport provided a good example of political courage in the National Transport Plan, where the Government says of E18 in the West Corridor from Oslo to Asker: "The Ministry of Transport does not give priority to government funding for this project during the planning period. Instead, priority is given to investments which will improve the capacity of railway infrastructure, in order to facilitate an increase in the share of public transport in the local transport sector in the Oslo area." So we cannot continue to plan as if ever-increasing climate emissions did not exist, and as if there were no limit on how many cars there was room for entry into Oslo City. I record that the majority of the population has not dared to be as brave as the Council of State, but instead come up with some non-binding wording that it would have been a bit nice to get to something with the E18 in Asker and Bærum. I'm comforting myself that this is probably just going to be an empty blow in the air. But I think it's a pity that we, who don't have money for this way, don't dare tell the inhabitants of Asker and Bærum that this is actually not a project we want, that we don't want more cars on this road, that we actually want to bet differently. It would have been both fairer and more political leadership. When the state actually promises, we have to dry up to follow it up. We've seen from Fornebu that the state has made clear promises of track-based collective solutions, and the people in Bærum are waiting to see if the state intends to do what it has said. So here we have to get a solution. I would also like to join the representative Heieren Hundhammer's good comments in relation to E16 and correspondingly to the representative Bjørnstads in relation to Kolsåsbanen, so I save the room to repeat them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1896	In the Government’s proposal for a national transport plan, the Eidanger tunnel is located in the second planning period, but with the important remark from the government parties that a future train offer is assumed in Grenland and that the intercity triangle is still to be Lillehammer-Halden-Skien. I would like to commend the government parties who have been willing to give Grenland the insurance that the region needs and demand. A future railway offer to an urban area of 100 000 people is a matter of course. Grenland is Norway’s largest industrial cluster with a strong need for improved infrastructure, which needs to be seen in the context of both road, rail and port. In Telemark, the opposition has created the pure cheery mood in its announced agreement on the national transport plan. I don't like to be a hit man, but I have to remind you that it is in the annual state budgets that the concrete appropriations for the Eidanger tunnel must come. When the opposition now expresses expectations of a larger future framework than the government parties, the same batches are obliged to follow-up with increased annual appropriations. There's still to be seen what the opposition prioritizes when it comes to the piece. It remains to be seen whether they agree, and what they agree on. In the past, the Progress Party has not given any particular reason for optimism among railway friends, and so have I to say about the contribution to Kenneth Svendsen in today's debate. A modern, fast and efficient railway will contribute to stronger regional development west and south through Westfold and Telemark. The Eidanger tunnel is also a prerequisite for improving the efficiency of freight flows to and from industry and further exports and imports across the border port. The Eidanger tunnel is also a prerequisite for a modern and fast train connection between Oslo and Agderbyne and Stavanger. I am not hiding that I would have liked to have seen that we could have put more money into the national transport plan. However, the plan is realistic because we stand firm on the economic framework set up by the Government. But that doesn't mean everything stays as the plan says. If, during the planning period, there is room for greater commitment to transport, projects could be accelerated. Good infrastructure is a prerequisite for a competitive business. Traffic is a prerequisite for the development of the country. In that picture, the Eidanger tunnel must have a central position. For us in the Right, it is a perfectly clear objective to further increase future appropriations for transport purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1909	I want to use this three-minute post to get into some of the other issues of social affairs that have been included in this debate. First, for the Imarsund project, which is the first project to be built where saved ferry fees and capital costs are part of the financing facility. Many years have passed since the Committee on Transport asked for a proposal on how this funding model could be implemented. Hence, it is gratifying today that we are going to adopt the first project to be built where this funding model is in place. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I might wonder a little bit that the first project to be submitted after this funding model is a project in which the Directorate of Road Affairs asks questions about whether the termination of the particular ferry link comes as a direct result of the construction of the Imarsund link. However, the ministry has scoured and said that since this is a desire from the community, the ministry supports it. It is also problematic in the proposition that there are difficulties in determining the exact savings of holiday subsidiaries in the project in question. A reassessment of this will come back after two to three years of operation. But despite the fact that it is possible to ask certain questions about this project, I will clearly signal that the Central Party considers this as a milestone, and we will support the proposal for the construction of the Imarsund project. Then go to St.prp. No 62 for 2003-2004, the so-called pooling proposition, and a few words about Tromsøpak 2. I am pleased that there is a multiplicity within the Committee that is in place to continue the system of levying local funding contributions on the placing on the market of fuels in Tromsø. This is in line with the wishes of local authorities. Through Tromsøpakt 2, important measures on road safety, improvement of the environment and the improvement of environmentally friendly transport in Tromsø will be implemented. The centre party would primarily have supported local authorities in their request in eight years' time, but realises that there are no multiples for it, and so goes for four years. Finally, a few words about the Namdal project. In the proposal, the Ministry briefs on the increase in cost estimates and the failure of toll revenue for the Namdal project. It is also stated that the State Road Administration has launched a process against the municipalities and county councils to find solutions to the situation and that the department will return to Stortinget as soon as local clarifications are available. It is important that the public contribution to the project be as expected, so that the proportion is acceptable. It is also important that the changes in the cost estimate and the failure of the toll revenue for the project do not lead to a change in the project, so that the environmental and safety option is removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1928	National transport plan is an important document. It is therefore essential that the steering signals become clear and clear, and that magnification and government have a common understanding of what they are for and that they operate with comparable numerical sizes. If this is not the case, it will be almost impossible for the Government to deal with the decisions and priorities of the Storing afterwards. Neither road nor rail is built with air billions of money or monopoly money. On one point, I need to elaborate on a comment that the Right and Christian People's Party is behind in the vote, that is, on the order of priority of the different investment projects on the Eastfold Railway. Should the double-track Haug-Onsøy come in front of the Mosse tunnel? If the local government has any meaning, central authorities must be responsive to clear local advice on major regulatory issues. In this case, local municipal councils have been clear for many years, as have Østfold county councils. It's the Mosse tunnel that needs to come first. There is reason to recall that the Stortinget asked the Ministry as early as 1997 to come back with suggestions on how to resolve the tunnel option called 2B in Moss. This case is therefore in overtime. The right bank has then also concluded that the Mosse tunnel must come in front of the Haug-Onsøy project, given that the project can be realised within a framework of 942 million. kr, as indicated by the national transport plan. And it does, even after the department's own numbers. Because of that $1,360 million. kr mentioned in the setting, the tunnel itself represents approx. $800 million. kr. The remainder is a new station and an extract track to which the Railway Agency has allegedly refused. A new railway station may be expanded and operated by private stakeholders, and consequently there is no need to allocate funds specifically for this purpose. I expect the Minister for Transport to return to Stortinget on the first occasion with a priority and order that follows up the clear local decisions. Otherwise I registered with interest that the representative Svein Roald Hansen expressed joy that this setting made it possible to realize the completion of the four-field E6 throughout Eastfold by 2007, as was the original plan. Yes, there may be several original plans, but the original plan for the then Stoltenberg government was that the four-field E6 through Østfold should be completed by 2016 or 2017. So it helped to get a new government, and I'm very happy about that. I'm also very pleased that there has been an increase in the rate of development of E18, for E6 and E18 are the two most important years of travel to and from abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1939	Since I began to follow the policy, there have been few issues in my region that have engaged as much as the so-called Namdal project, with people's reactions, lots of demonstrations, etc. Why has the so-called Namdal project created such an enormous commitment to Namsos, a small town with well over 12,000 inhabitants? Well, it was because it was thought that a bombing project in such a town with very modest transit traffic was not a realistic project. First of all, you were not supposed to have tolls there. It was also thought that it was an unrealistic project, and therefore an action was launched to stop the idea of establishing this bombing project. Now a project was adopted, with hardly a majority both in local government and in county councils, based on a number of figures that had come in from the state road system. There were figures relative to development costs and figures relative to traffic base. Those who conducted this action already questioned whether the figures for the traffic base were realistic. But once the state has determined, you have confidence in the numbers, and the decision base that was on the table was what you had to deal with. Then it turns out that once the project has been started, there are, first of all, large exceedances of development costs, and, in addition, the traffic base is much smaller than what was foreseen. I think that if those figures had been known today, probably both local government and county could have made a different decision in this project, because it has led to the citizens of Namsos, if the state does not intervene, getting a far, far greater cost of this road project. Now I have registered that the Council of State has told Stortinget that they are questioning whether these types of small projects are suitable for toll financing. I register that with interest, and I think we should learn from it. It may be that we should learn that such small projects should we later finance without tolls. That's why I also trust that the Council of State, when we come to the budget, is actually trying to find a solution where the Namsos community takes its share as provided for in the decision, and that the State is willing to join the rest, so that you can implement this project as originally planned, and that you don't come up with a bad solution where walking and cycling routes, noise protection and a number of other things are put aside, and where you just build bridges, tunnels and the most necessary roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1950	National transport plan carries happy tithes to people in Akershus and Oslo. In fact, the two states only get 17 pst. of national roads, while they should have had 25 pst. by population. In return, there shall be a joyous railway effort on both sides of the Oslo Earth, at a price of DKK 5.7 billion. We are thus in the process of completing a quadruple track between Oslo and Asker and between Ski and Oslo, including Ski Station and Lysaker Station, which will connect the Fornebu Railway. Between Eidsvoll and Hamar parallel tracks shall be built on site and the Alnabru terminal shall be rebuilt. Larger collective proportions in and out of Oslo mean a lot to the urban living environment. There's a frame of $22.5 billion for other public transport, of which Oslo tends to get the brother. A total of NOK 2.6 billion will be used for walking and cycling routes. The sum of these measures will strengthen the green element of Oslo’s urban development. It is important not least for children's growing-up environment - in a number of tens of thousands - and is important for families to also live in the central areas of Oslo. On the way, the E16 Vøen-Bjørum shall be completed and the project for the Rv 150 Ulven-Splitten-Sinsen Cross shall be started during the first four years. E6 out of Oslo towards Østfold will be completed with four fields in the first four years, and here we will plan the Manglerut Tunnel, which is important for the environment out there. It's also relevant with the start of the Fossum Diagonal. The Bjørvika tunnel has been integrated into the national transport plan and the Mosseweg in the tunnel as OPS project has been accelerated to allow policy decisions to be taken in 2005. These two projects will open up to the development of Harald Hardrådes, Sigurd Jorsalfars, King Sverres and Håkon Vs medieval town in Bjørvika. It provides exciting opportunities for cultural development, where the Opera will also be adapted, and it will also open up the development of a fjord city, with business development and housing. It's a $30 billion project if we count on the Opera. Today it's sun over Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1964	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has put forward proposals to increase the scope of the transport plan by 22 billion kroner in addition to what the Government proposed. I hope this gets a majority today. It provides an opportunity to see the link between value creation in society and better and more road and rail. I am also pleased, as a representative from More and Romesdal, that there is a great deal of excitement in the Stortinget to get an increased investment in racial protection. I believe that an increased investment in transport will in general affect more projects in my state. More money for the E39 Stavanger-Trondheim is important for the entire Western region, as is the E136 Dombås-Ålesund. I have noticed that the Committee is concerned that one has to consider getting in Tresfjordbrua at the next roll-out of the national transport plan. It provides a basis for this project to be realised in a reasonably near future. In More and Romesdal, a cooperation project is working very constructively to achieve faster solutions to necessary road and tunnel projects. Samples AS and Sunnmøre Veginvest AS are very good cooperation projects which, hopefully, by virtue of their importance can be solved through upcoming rollouts of NTP. This includes a complete upgrade of Rv 70 from Kristiansund to Oppdal. The Storting is also making some premise today - I think it's the setting - in order to implement a very important tunnel project between Kristiansund and Averøya. Of course, it is not mentioned in the setting, but it is important that one does not set absolute limits for the toll collection period, but that for this project, and perhaps also other projects, a period of about 20 years can be set. There are things that we have to come back to. It is also important, I think, what is being said about the calculation rate, that it is set so that good projects, like this one I mentioned here, are not stopped. It is gratifying that the Committee on Transport addresses this issue on a general basis. The system of passports must also be set up in such a way that good ferry relief projects with a high share of passenger transport can be realised. The Averøy tunnel is a good example of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1979	Road investment is both important and sensible. Better measures will reduce transport costs for business, reduce traffic accidents, and reduce transport costs for people most and facilitate commuting. So maybe road is one of the best investments we can make. I'm happy to belong to a party that takes these challenges seriously, and that one wants to invest in it without losing the car list with tolls. The state is currently levying car-related taxes that are several times higher than those expected for road construction, road maintenance and road administration, and therefore it should be unnecessary to finance them by means of tolls. Many road projects and bridge projects have been completed with tolls in recent years. From Hordaland I would like to mention two projects, Askøybrua, which were toll-financed by 93 pst. from the bilistane, and Nordhordlandsbrua, where the bilistane had to pay even a little more, 95 pst. This is why it is particularly unthinkable that new toll projects are planned in this area, with the exception of full toll financing. Then, among other things, I aim. to E39, where a long tunnel is planned between Nyborg and Nordhordlandsbrua, and where the Western Council plans - there are plans - that 80 pst. to be financed by tolls. There is in many ways a provocation against drivers in this area, which has been burdened with tolls and tolls from the early 1960s. But this tunnel is an important project, he wants to cut down the journey time from North Hordland to Bergen, and then on the entire Coastal Route, with almost ten minutes, which of course will have a lot to say for business. But it's not just a short, good path and short distances that are important. What counts for business is to keep costs down overall. It's alpha and omega to be competitive. If you are going to drive a train from Trondheim to Stavanger, via Ålesund and Bergen, it costs per. today 5 500 kroner for tolls and ferry costs. If you want to return, you will have $11,000 in return. So this comes in addition to high fuel costs and high car costs. It is important that one is observant of this and that one does not impose new costs that cause business to lose out on competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e1990	As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and There is broad consensus in the Committee that the overall objective of Avinor is to facilitate safety and environmental-friendly and efficient aviation throughout the country. Avinor faces major challenges in the years ahead in terms of investments in security. This applies both in relation to security at all aerodromes and in relation to new requirements for the design of aerodromes on the Short Path Network. In this context, an overall committee shows that the analysis carried out by the Swedish Aviation Agency in 2000 shows that the single investment that would provide the best short-term safety is the introduction of glide paths on approach to aerodromes. The Committee assumes that both the Government and Avinor give this work priority. As regards the Ministry of Transport's economic governance of Avinor, an overall committee emphasises that if Avinor is to manage the large investments in the upgrading of security in the coming years, the company must be given stable and long-term framework conditions. The government has announced for the current year, and also for the following year, that, with regard to the framework for the purchase of services on the short-range network, it is unilaterally defined by the Ministry, while negotiations with Avinor are due from 2006. For the future, a model of negotiations must be established. It does so with other state infrastructure companies. The minority, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, want a long-term framework agreement with Avinor, such as that of the Ministry with the NSB. The Committee has discussed the issue of cross-subsidisation of Avinor. Cross-subsidy has been the foundation for financing airports in Norway. The Committee has chosen to postpone this issue until the Government comes back with its own notification on the VAT system in the transport sector. With regard to the major conversion programme "Take-off-05", the Committee shares a majority and a minority. However, an overall committee emphasises that safety must be given the highest priority and no conversion measures can be implemented until safety is adequately ensured and until those measures have been approved by the Air Safety Authority. SV has concluded that the aviation safety service in Avinor should be separated and assigned as a separate administrative unit under the Ministry of Transport. We believe that it is wrong that what goes directly on aviation safety should be organised in a public limited liability company. Direct political control should be exercised. With this I address SV's proposal in case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2011	The representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2014	We, who are concerned with industrial development, value creation, well-being, safe trading conditions and environmental development, see the importance of good transport development. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the environment and security have been given so much space both in the message and in the setting. I'm glad that public transport is so high-priority. The objective of ensuring that a greater part of the transport is carried out by rail and sea must be followed up. The development of the railway network and its current port structure provide a good basis for this. In my own country, there are many positive transport measures in the plan. Realisation of the projects mentioned in the NTP will provide a better basis for development, both in the districts and in central parts of Hordaland. The Western economy has a strong export-right activity and depends on good transport conditions. The E39 will bind the West better together as a strong nutrient region with great value creation. It has been interesting to follow the development of the Bergen programme, which has been made through hard work for many years. Effective and environmentally sound public transport is important for Bergen and the surrounding region. For us, the urban track is the answer to the public transport challenges in the city. The urban railway can be the backbone of public transport in Bergen. The West Ring Road will relieve the central area of Bergen of unnecessary transit traffic. The Skansen tunnel will relieve Bryggen in Bergen. We have a common responsibility to punish and care for this unique cultural tax. Getting car traffic away from Bryggen and into the mountain will be an important measure to reduce the load on the ground and the building mass. Jarnvegen can get double tracks and shut down intercity traffic, and the road tunnel through Ulrikken, which has now been given the work title "Arnatunnelen", can be realized with tolls. This road tunnel will short-distance east-west between Arna and Bergen centre by 15 km. This will reduce fuel consumption by several million litres, reduce driving time and reduce pollution and traffic load in Åsane, which currently has a lot of unnecessary transit traffic. In order to implement the traffic measures referred to in the NTP priority order, local and regional cooperation and cohesion are important. We got a good example of cooperation when the leaders of the Western states presented their common priorities for the transport project in question. I have also registered with pleasure the willingness to cooperate internally in the county. This promises good for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2037	In this debate we have heard that there are unresolved transport and transport needs in all states. That's the way it is in my county, North Throne Team. The Namdals project is one of them, and I'm glad that the government will now negotiate with the local authorities to find a solution. However, it is a project I am happy to be coming at the beginning of the first planning period. Rehabilitation by tunnel through Gevingåsen on the Nordlandsbanen and Trønderbanen. This tunnel increases the crossing capability and shortens the journey time on the Trunder Railway. In this way, the railway helps to link North and South Trøndelag to a common, efficient working region. The more disappointed there is reason to be over the Progress Party, which will cancel this project, at best push the project forward in time. Here, the Progress Party counters the interests of the Trondelag and prevents the emergence of a common working region. We need a more integrated region in Central Norway, and the government will make a good contribution by building the Gewingåsen tunnel in the next planning period. Sometimes one can sit on the back bench and wonder if the decisions of Stortinget fatter will be implemented. Today there's reason to wonder about it. National transport plan is not a budget decision. It's a planning document. But outside the counties, the Workers' Party has marketed that there will be a number of new projects beyond what the Government has proposed, because the majority in the UK will spend more money. This is how expectations are created, but will they be fulfilled? When I look at who is behind the majority, I draw the conclusion that the Labour Party, SV and the Advance Party will hardly cooperate on the annual government budgets in the years to come. This means that the majority will not be able to finance the new projects. Nevertheless, the Labour Party has promised something for the next parliamentary term that they will certainly try to implement if they come into position. But then we have to see the promises in the transport plan in connection with promises in other sectors. I do not doubt the good will of transport policy. But when I look at what the Workers' Party has promised in other sectors, my doubts increase. NOK 3-4 billion for municipalities, DKK 2 billion for transportation, NOK 1-2 billion for hospitals, DKK 1 billion for culture, and nearly DKK 1 billion for school in increased hours. Then I have not mentioned that the Workers' Party also supports giving teachers 2-3 billion kroner to raise their skills over a few years. This corresponds to the annual increased frames of between DKK 8 billion and DKK 10 billion. It shall be financed at the current level of taxes and charges. The advantage of sitting on the back bench is that you have a good view and can observe what's happening. I draw the conclusion that the social security money Worker's Party is now a promise, is still very uncertain. Today's decision requires no more than that there is a prioritisation of different projects - i.e. a planning document. Financing comes first in the annual budgetary decisions, but expectations have already been created.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2052	In Norway, by 90 km of motorway is missing in relation to the traffic base. It is particularly important that NTP has promises to support the deployment of E6 and E18 through Eastfold. A forced expansion is absolutely necessary, in view of the enormous traffic problems that exist in Eastfold. Kilometers with cows along the E6 and many unnecessary deaths and mutilations have been the case for a number of years, as a result of serious road accidents. 80 pst. of freight and car traffic entering Norway through Eastfold. The economy depends on having rapid export routes out of Norway for its goods. Unfortunately, large extra transport costs compared to competitors in Europe have been the daily business life, as a result of the inability of undeveloped roads. It is gratifying to see that the four-field E6 is ensured by 2009 through Eastfold. Depending on some assumptions related to the progress of the financing plan and the local physical planning, the road can be completed in 2007. This is ensured through DKK 2 billion in the period 2006-2009. It is gratifying that the transport corridor between Oslo and Svinesund is a very high priority, with a total investment framework of SEK 6.6 billion for both road and rail over the decade. That the E18 is secured significantly more money than previously foreseen, 260 million. DKK in the period 2006-2009 and a total of 1050 million. kr for the entire ten-year period, giving room for both the completion of new E18 past Ashim and the acceleration of the distance between Momark and Ashim, starting in the first four years. The deployment of E18 westwards from Ashim takes place in the last part of the planning period. Only three years ago the situation looked very dark to Eastfold. There were gloomy prospects for completing the E6 and E18 by 2015. In three years the situation has turned upside down. Important clarifications have now been made in relation to the progress and financing of E6 and E18. The Ministry of Transport has analysed the costs of a tunnel solution in Moss. It includes, inter alia: an estimate of the tunnel costs to 800 million. kr, railway station to 400 mill. kr and other adjustments to 160 mill. SEK - a total of 1,260 million. kr. There is a large gap between the local promoters and the ministry on the estimate of costs. Procurement competitions and private solutions can significantly reduce this amount, pointing out local forces. It would be okay if the department and the local authorities were agreed on terms and sizes. Rail, as it is today, is an obstacle to food and urban development in Moss. It is therefore important for ministers here today to record that local authorities and businesses have jointly developed a plan for the end of the Moss rail marit. Finally, I would like to mention the importance of granting concessions to civil aviation on Rygge. The aerodrome will be a complement to the main aerodrome and provide the inhabitants of Eastfold with a nearby aerodrome, as all the other counties currently have. A civil airport has been one of the state's most priority infrastructure projects in the County Plan. In the past, the Government has underlined the importance of the civil airport at Rygge for a balanced population growth in the East.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2071	It is gratifying to have such a great commitment to the debate on transport. There is no doubt that good road and track solutions are essential for both value creation and settlement throughout the country. The debate is marked by a major competition for many and good projects. During the debate on the projects, we also see a deeper ideological distinction between the Workers' Party on the one hand and the government parties on the other. While the government parties are committed to getting more and more out of money through modernisation, through outsourcing and through less bureaucracy, or to borrowing Petter Løvik's words, from desk to excavator, we see on the other hand the Workers' Party, which wants to stop modernisation and compensate for the lack of modernisation by spending more money. I want to give Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt honor to her honesty. She says that the 22 billion dollars you want to spend more on road and track, you want to get them in by increasing taxes. On the one hand, it facilitates business by building more roads, but at the same time it increases taxes and affects the framework conditions for the same businesses. There is no doubt that this will lead to tax increases, because the 12 billion kroner promised by the government parties in tax relief in the next period, Jens Stoltenberg has already spent three or four times, so that this can only mean increasing taxes for people most and increasing taxes for business. When I choose to take the floor, it's also on the basis of the representative Vidar Bjørnstad's visit to me and the Right in terms of my and Right engagement to get a solution to the west corridor E18. I am very pleased that the government parties and the Workers' Party are now united in pointing out that we have a traffic and environmental challenge in relation to the E18. It is also shown that there is an alternative with an environmentally friendly E18 solution. But there is no doubt that there have been many counterpowers. The representative of Vidar Bjørnstad's party has been one of the counterclaims locally, at state level and centrally. I am pleased that this is now history, and that the Workers' Party has joined with the government parties and the Right in pointing out the need for a solution in the case of E18. Let me finally challenge the Advance Party. We have tabled a proposal, No. 4, where we point out that there must be a better distribution between road and track than the Workers' Party has opted for. My question to the Progress Party is: Is it the case that socialists are now supported both by the detection of increased means of transport and by the distribution of socialists? If there is more money, the Progress Party will do more if we support our proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2086	I'll draw attention to Innst. S. No 222 for 2003-2004 and Tromsøpakte 2, to be adopted today - an important issue for Tromsø and Tromsø County. From the municipality of Tromsø and the municipality of Tromsø, it was said that it was a partially different package. They wanted higher investment from the state. They wanted an 80 pst. bet on vulnerable road users and environmental measures and 20 pst. bet on a car. Tromsøpakt 2 was to be a continuation of Tromsøpakt 1, but this time it was the journey of the soft road users. The decision taken today in Stortinget is a 50-fifty distribution between the car and soft road users. I am very sorry that the proposal that is being adopted today lacks the great environmental profile and the angle of the soft road users that it could have had. We could have used the opportunity to complete a number of walking and cycling routes, which had been necessary for the municipality of Tromsø. On the other hand, I am pleased that Tromsøpak 2 is being adopted today, even some wing clipping. NORUT Societal research has evaluated the scheme of the local petrol tax. 75 pst. priority over the bomb. In addition, they may have to look both long and well before they find greater digestion for a fee. That's because you see and have seen the results, the reasonable administration, and you also experience a small commercial leakage. Therefore, I am very pleased that the fee would allow an extension of four years, although it would be more reasonable if it had been eight years. Anyway, this is a little bit on the way. SV believes that the petrol tax should have been exempt from VAT, in line with the toll system. But we accept the reimbursement proposal that is being adopted today. I believe that this is a system that creates unnecessary red tape. I hope the Stortinget in the future will introduce municipalities that want to bet on soft road users and on the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2099	I have listened to much of the debate today, from the office. I have with wonder noticed both commissioner Petter Løvik's railing over the plural proposal, the Council of State's evasive response when Jorunn Ringstad called for the need for road maintenance, and case-speakers Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt's open lack of understanding of the very special challenges and extra costs of inhabitants and businesses in ferries. The center party claimed 30 billion more than the government for the next period of time. I want to remind the Right that Petter Løvik's own party has presented a bill of $12 billion in tax bills. Mostly it's for those who think over 350,000. So $12 billion in ten years is $120 billion. Right in the western state, led by Governors of the Rogaland Mountains, from the Right, have asked for extra frames. Business emphasizes the same thing. Better logistics than tax havens was the birthplace of three business leaders after each other when the Rogaland bench met the NHO in winter. Western cooperation has been in the United Kingdom to tell us that they give priority to the coastal route. But they are careful to stress that this should not be at the cost of internal strokes. The central party's proposal would have resulted in 790 million for the planning period. kr. to the secondary national road network in Rogaland. In addition, it would have our means to the tribal road, rail and ferries, and in the same way means to the other Western states. It is a great crutch for us that today it is actually being operated on with figures like 8 000 to 10 000 unemployed before the construction sector, which could have been in the process of building the country. We thought it was bad that we should not think more long-term and invest in any longer term. It is right, as Jan Tore Sanner says, that this is about ideology. It's about whether we're going to spend more and more of our common costs on property and tolls, or whether we're going to finance more by being tax-free. Let me underline: there are important projects in the inner part of the Western world that fuel attention: Ryfast, Finnfast and Hardangerbrua. There are people who have been drilling large extra costs for years, who are still experiencing column running and night-riding routes, and who are fuelling a better future, for the benefit of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2112	I take the floor, not to extend the debate, but to correct three incubators who have crept into the vote. This applies to page 99, third paragraph of the first column. There, SV has fallen out of the majority. We're going to be in the majority of the committee. So that's page 118, second column, section eight. There, SV has also fallen out. This applies to the second column of page 133, sixth paragraph, which is a note from the Workers' Party. There shall be SV with the Workers' Party. I have listened to the debate which has been a long one. There have been many people who have meant something. That's the way it is when you debate traffic. I am pleased that we have come to the conclusion that it should be voted in a subsidiary way, so that we can get a majority position on the basis of action plans. It creates at least uncertainty. Just to make it easy for the representative Svendsen of the Progress Party, I would like to stress that a prerequisite for a subsidiary vote is that proposal No. 4, from the Right and Christian People's Party, first fall. The rapporteur has asked for a voting order which will allow the first vote on Amendment 4. I also want to repeat that wish. It's actually so that if the Right wants more money to go, the Right proposes it. So really simple is that thing. So to everyone who's talked about the uncertainty. The only thing that's certain is that the voters should have their say. There is nothing this big business decides, which is completely unaffected by the fact that in 2005 there will be a choice. I'm really happy about that situation, because then we can get a social choice in many states. I think that's good. I think most voters know very well what the different parties stand for, and they can use their ballot to get through the bet they want. If you burn the most for rail and public transport, you vote SV. If you want to pave the way for Norway, you vote for the Progress Party. It shouldn't be so hard. It's easy for people to choose. With these small comments, I thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2132	The President sees that there are still representatives on the list of speakers. In the name of propriety, we should be done by noon. 16th@item: inlistbox Then the grand meeting will be over at noon, and then Odelstinget will begin. I just mention it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2135	When almost all the representatives have been up here and sent their mandatory greetings home, I will come up with some general considerations. Prior to the 1997 elections, it was the opposition that had achieved a positive impact on a greater economic investment in the transport sector. The government then, which had resigned from the Workers' Party, would not accept. Oppositions won the case. The transport plan was dealt with, but when Bondevik came into government after the election and was to have the first state budget through the Stortinget, it was supported by the Progress Party and the Right. And less was allowed to travel than the Workers' Party had initially proposed in its proposal for a national transport plan. In all years since 1997, appropriations for transport have been lower than those for current government parties and the Progress Party. For half of these years, the Progress Party has been a supporting party for changing governments. How much credibility does it have in relation to the party's presentation of itself as a party of transportation? Today, the situation is parallel to 1997. The opposition wins the vote on a transport plan that needs more investment than the Government has planned. At the same time, however, the Labour Party says that the increased investment can be financed within tight budgetary frameworks by re-priorities that are not currently specified. What is the credibility of the decision on the transport plan? Is it symbolic decisions for use in the election campaign, and which are put in the drawer when reality comes after the election? We know that today's government parties are increasingly leaving funding and maintenance for the development of the road network to users through multiple bombings. If they get their will, in a short time there will be at least one bombing in each municipality. If the Workers' Party has government power after the election and has to coordinate its policy with SV, I am afraid that today's decision will become a purely symbolic policy, not a real policy. The coastal party wants a bomb-free Norway. We think it's a long-term investment that our descendants will have greater joy and benefit from than even more shares in Coca Cola. A bomb-free Norway means better competitiveness for business, and thus greater opportunities for a business growth that can improve the welfare society in the future. The Coastal Party supports all good investments in transport, but if the years of transport in Norway are to receive the quality that the country needs, then a billion bet is needed over the next few years, which must not be negotiated in the annual budgetary negotiations. There is no such broad agreement in any of the blocks. Let us hope that it will be possible after the 2005 elections. Otherwise, the Coastal Party opposes the sale of Norway bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2148	I was not supposed to take the floor more in this matter, but Sanner managed to get me to do it anyway. If our proposal for a decision had been adopted today, it would have saved Norway 340 deaths in the next ten years. It had saved the North for 480 muddy cities in traffic over the next ten years. The government doesn't want to be in on that. It's very important for us to bring down those deaths. I'm recording that Sanner is not so busy about it. In our proposal, we have been committed to the full deployment of E18 through the state of Sanner, Akershus, without tolls. We have proposed full deployment of E6 with four-field roads from Svinesund to Trondheim. We have proposed the full extension of the two-field motorway from Trondheim to Kirkenes. So Sanner, who is head of the government fraction of the financial committee, claims that the Progress Party is for tax growth, along with the Workers' Party. I wonder if Sanner has not been involved in the treatment of the revised national budgets and the state budgets in the past, when he can make such an eye-catching statement. Then he says we have to point to NTP containment. Now I've been in the treatment of NTP for multiple days and multiple nights, where we've written about NTP, and we've been dealing with NTP in committee meetings time and time again. I have not heard from one of the government parties who has made any proposal on the question of containment. If Sanner, who is so central to the financial committee, doesn't know that the containment will be dealt with by the different budgets, then both the government and the Right have a job to do with Sanner. It is also interesting that the representative Sanner, who is the leader of the fraction I have mentioned, comes here and takes the floor in this case, where his co-representatives say that when we deal with this as a final majority proposal, it is an "airlock" that is immaterial. It is interesting to see that the Financial Committee attaches such importance to participating in the treatment of airlocks as it does. Maybe it's not an airlock anyway. As regards proposal No: 4, it says that "if during the planning period there will be a higher annual budget framework than the St.meld plan framework. No 24 [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2163	The representative of Svendsen should for the time being try not to speak directly to his co-representatives in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2166	I would like to thank you for the debate so far, towards the end. I have three comments for some specific articles before I say anything in general. I think it is so inconceivable from the Right and Sanner to talk about modernising just as a competitive postponement and conversion into a limited liability company. There are many other ways to modernise too. If you look at the companies that are represented here at the lodge today, there are many of those who have converted as state-owned enterprises -- year after year and time after time -- and we think it's possible to continue without postponing competition. So this is the one with the highway ferry. Yes, I understand that there are extra costs, but I have a little less understanding of that now that we have received tolls on the other side as well. And then we're in the middle of the game and we say that any savings on the start of the competition - and I stress, if any - will go to the improvement of the offer and, if necessary, the reduction of the tariffs. Then to the representative, Sahl. I think he must have seen himself in the mirror. He's talking about wound pain. But I can't understand where that wound is in the Workers' Party today. On the contrary, I think we have a good sense of humor and self-confidence all over the line. We're very naked. So I'll give you a little warning. When we politicians don't believe in each other, don't think we mean what we promise, we share in creating political contempt. The politically despised frame not only the others, but also one. So when the government party thinks they've been brilliant in putting the envelope of "air billions" in some of the country's newspapers, they don't just frame us, but they also hit themselves, because they're framed by political criticism. So to this with plan and budget. We have plans in many areas. It's never common containment. One might think that the Right thought that when they were in a compromise, a compromise, a subsidiary vote that gave multiple plans, it was real money, but when others do, it's not real money. So this isn't even going to be a good idea. Either we need to resign from the entire planning institute, or we need to believe in the plans and not be the first to undermine them. Of course, the budget is something other than that. I would like to thank the Council of State, which has said that it will follow up the plans. She gets a lot of work. I'm glad that there are many billions to distribute for many good purposes. I'm sure she'll look forward to it. I bet it's being followed up in a good way. So it's not like the truth owns the one. From time to time the truth, or the result, can change in a democracy. The center party, SV and the labor party would have had multiples in this room if it had been a choice today. I don't think the result of an agreement between the three parties would be so very different from what is going to be a result today. The center part would have had a little more to do, and the SV would have had a little more to go. The representative Kjästad said he had a dream about a better and brighter tomorrow. Yes, I have, "and the dream will come true".
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2195	What got me to ask for the word once more was Heidi Sørensen's proposal for a sequence of votes, which we will, of course, strongly oppose. Sørensen assumed that if the Right wanted more money, we had to suggest it. Yes, we would very much like more money to go, and hope there will be room for it in the years ahead. But at the same time, we would stress that the biggest criticism and the most fair criticism that has come against the NTP in this period is that we have not been able to follow up the action programme. So we're going to put a realistic line right now, which we hope we can get over. When the Progress Party now says quite clearly, in the previous post, that they don't intend to follow up if they get any more power, it's just a clear sign that here's some things that aren't related to this collaboration. And when we in the Right go strongly against the order of SV when it comes to voting, it's because if there's going to be multiple numbers to go beyond the limits that the Government of Mein is realistic, then at least we in the Government Party must also be allowed to express how we will distribute these frames. So I hope that here the vote will be put up so that everyone will have the opportunity to express their vision, including the government party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15.ana.ud16e2204	After six hours, the President believes that most people have been given the opportunity to express their views. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1-7. This cancels this morning's meeting, and a new meeting is scheduled to be held at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3359]] We then start by dealing with case number. 8 on today's map.
