ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e28	The representatives of André Kukkestad, Olav Akselsen, Jorunn Ringstad, Gunn Karin Gjul, Elsa Skarbøvik and Per Erik Monsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Hordaland County Bente Gunn Håtfuft has taken the seat. The called alternate of the Hordaland County of Rita Tveiten is proposed to be elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Leif Lund. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e64	On behalf of the representatives of Haakon Blankenborg, Signe Øye, Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen and myself, I allow myself to propose measures and instruments to prevent discrimination and social dumping in the enlargement of the EEA area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e69	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e93	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen State Council Electiond Svarstad Haugland State Council Ansgar Gabrielsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Olav Akselsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e112	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. Norway has just experienced a new tragic shipwreck — one of Norway’s largest. 18 lives have been lost. Accidents have also led to material damage and environmental damage. When such tragic things happen, it is important that we try to figure out what has happened, what was the cause, and what can be done to avoid similar accidents in the future. An accident like this also shows that there are a lot of instances responsible for shipping. In this area, Norwegian law also applies in parallel with international rules. After the accident, there have been allegations of a lack of coordination and cooperation between different public authorities, including the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. that important information which was known for one instance was not known for another. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Maritime Affairs is whether something will now be done to improve the cooperation procedures in the relevant bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e123	Let me say first of all, of course, that I agree with what Akselsen says, that it is a very tragic event that happened just outside the archipelago outside Bergen. That an accident can happen in the middle of the day, in quiet weather with good visibility, and with a large, relatively new boat, appears almost inexplicable and incomprehensible. Now there is a maritime explanation, requested by Jebsen Management, to clarify all the facts in this matter. I have good faith that in this case you should be able to clarify all the facts relating to what was the direct cause of the accident. Unfortunately, though many perished, it was also surviving, and the very proof – the ship – lies in the springstones. But even if all of that is clarified, there will still be many questions that we have to ask ourselves, including: related to the different responsibilities of public authorities. It is quite obvious that it would also be natural in this case to have a review of the things that the representative Aksensen points to. It's the Coast Guard, it's the Maritime Cartwork, it's the Losing Service – all the parties that have been involved. But before we draw conclusions about how we're going to pursue the further investigation, we're going to have put all the facts on the table. There will definitely be concrete assessments of the involvement, communication and possibly lack of communication of all departments. And there will be surveys that will go beyond the general maritime declaration under Section 484 of the Maritime Act, which has been carried out. It is the responsibility of the public authorities, of course with the Government as the Supreme Authority. We have to take that responsibility, and no stones should be dirty when it comes to bringing to mind what was the reason why it could happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e130	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Minister of Industry is now confirming that such a review will be carried out, and that one in the hope of future will have better coordination between the various departments involved. It is important that after such an accident, you get the most knowledge of what happened, and that you clarify the timing of the event. Unfortunately, in Norway's history one has had a good deal of bad luck that we haven't done, and that has actually been under investigation for 20 to 30 years. It's important that it doesn't happen in this case. There have been claims that the rules in this area are a little fuzzy, and because there is a ship with a flag other than Norwegian, it is actually a lot up to the government of the flag State to evaluate the type of research to be carried out. Is it really such that this accident, which occurred almost in Bergen port, cannot be fully investigated by Norwegian government powers? If so, will the Minister take action to bring about better international legislation in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e137	First, there have been some accidents in Norway's history that we're still struggling with, where investigation commissions have been set up, but where you haven't been able to finish the case, precisely because you haven't been able to document what happened de facto. In this case, as I said, I have very good faith that this could happen. So to the question of the flag state, we have, through international conventions, joined and actually engaged in the very flag state principle. It is clear that the third largest shipping nation in the world is very interested that we should also be able to investigate accidents occurring in other waters where Norwegian ships and Norwegian seafarers are involved, so it is a principle that we are absolutely going to have. That principle does not deprive us of the possibility of doing investigations far beyond what Section 484 of the Maritime Act says relating to maritime declarations. There is already in this specific case contact between the Maritime Directorate, which is an underlying agency in relation to my department, and the flag State Antigua and Barbuda, and we have made an agreement on a joint examination of this. Besides that, the Maritime Directorate will also go further on the technical side of the ship itself, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e144	There will be three follow-up questions – first Heidi Sørensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e147	For rail and aviation, we have a standing accident commission. I would first like to ask the Council of State whether it is such that it could also have envisaged a standing accident commission for shipping, and whether the Council of State interprets the international legislation to the point that it is possible. The intention of having a standing accident commission is perhaps not primarily to investigate the major accidents, but to investigate all the near-accidents, in order to be able to carry out a much better prevention work to prevent such tragic things as what we have experienced outside Bergen. Another thing that has emerged from this loss is that when ships enter Norwegian waters they are not required to have up-to-date maps, and there were no up-to-date maps on board ‘Rocknes’. Such maps are now available electronically. Will the Council of State do everything in its power to ensure that it is required to make these maps available?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e154	There were several questions. First in relation to a so-called standing accident commission: I think it makes sense that we have a supplement to what is the minimum description in the maritime law § 484 attached to maritime explanations. It is essentially a practical matter whether or not to have it in a joint Commission, because it is clear that very special competence is required in this area. The possibility is present, and it is not international legislation that prevents it, we just have to adapt the international legislation that is. In the Sem Declaration, the Co-operation Government has a formulation related to working towards such a joint Commission, and there is no problem with international legislation. As for the fact that there was no relevant mapping on the bridge, as the representative says, I cannot here and now join it, but it is quite clear that the relevant, good mapping is very important for the Norwegian authorities, and the Stortinget grants large amounts of money annually to update this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e162	Kenneth Svendsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e165	Let's hope that the maritime explanation finds out what happened to the tragic accident of the "Rocknes". But as Heidi Sørensen was in the house, we have an air transport accident commission, which we have now expanded to apply to trains. There are many unanswered questions related to ‘Rocknes’, including: as regards the relationship between the various etatas, the Coastal Works, the Coastal Cartwork, etc. The Progress Party has previously proposed the creation of a standing emergency commission, and I also understand that the Minister will now assess this. So my question is: will the Minister take the initiative to include these areas in a disaster commission for transport as a whole, so that we can avoid more tragic accidents, both of this nature and in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e170	I think it's pretty important to be clear when you're going to attack this case complex like that in general, that accident commissions could never be a final assurance that the worst possible thing could happen. But what's important is that we learn from what's happening, and in all areas of transport, it's really through major accidents and near-accidents that we have improved the legislation. The Ministry of Justice is working on this matter that goes on an overall commission for all areas of transport, but it is clear that ships and seas are a little different, as accidents occur under completely different skies than our own, where our own seafarers and our own ships are involved, and that means that the international conventions must be involved in this work. But we are working on the matter and will promote a cause for the Storting during this year linked to a joint accident commission, and, as I said, there is no international legislation that puts an end to the declaration of will that we have in the Sem Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e175	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e178	As the Sleipner accident, this accident has focused on the need for good enough navigational charts and good enough labelling of traffic controllers. We've decided that this will work out quickly. So it turns out we're hanging out years later when it comes to getting the electronic charts. These are non-allocations. Every year when we deal with the budget, we get a lot of enquiries from the mapping team, and they've told us this. What is now proposed is too little. Probably we are now three to four years behind in relation to our goal of getting electronic charts across the coast. It's about small amounts, a few tens of millions, in relation to the enormous losses and damage that result from such an accident like this, both human, material and in terms of cleaning up the environment. Will the Council of State contact those who make the maps, and those who mark the fairways, with a view to increasing the appropriations immediately after what has now happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e183	If the only thing was that I should contact them to get them involved in increased appropriations, I guess I almost didn't need to call them. Let me say this so that this which is on updating maps, including electronic maps, is done continuously. But I think you should be very careful to pull it up as a crucial element in this ongoing matter. As far as I have seen of the maritime explanation so far, it may well indicate that the ship was not exactly where it should have been, but it must not lead you to believe that if you had an electronic map, everything would have been very different. I would like to remind you that this happened at the entrance to Bergen with the unloading on board. It is obvious that the whole seabed, including along the Norwegian coast, is sufficiently documented, but I know that the Ministry of the Environment is working on this in relation to the Cartel. That, of course, will also be reflected in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e190	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e193	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. During the last few weeks, we have been able to read and hear in the media about the use of the money of the Norwegian Sports Association and about the alleged cuts in the tippers and the dissatisfaction of the special associations in the same matter. There can hardly be any doubt that here are both truths, misunderstandings and misinformation. One of the reasons for this is that there is very little transparency about the appropriations in the sport sector, both in terms of money allocation in the sport sector and in terms of sport policy priorities. The size has only added 340 million in the last two years. Healthy crowns without the Storting knowing whether they have benefited from the wide-ranging sport and children and young people. That's why I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture, who is also Minister of Sports: What will she do to increase the transparency of the sporting appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e202	First, I have called the board of the Sports Association to a meeting today. I look forward to that. It has been quite a matter of debate, as the representative also mentions. I am busy that there should be a lot of openness about the permissions of sports as well. The admissions to sport have their own characteristics in relation to all other sectors by going directly through the State Council and beyond the Storting, but it is not the same as not being open. From my point of view, I have followed up the intentions expressed by the Stortinget in the debate on the Great Britain Communication on sport and in the debate on the change in the key. The Stortinget pointed out, among other things: that it is important that the increase in funding is to a large extent directed to children and young people and to facilities, and that we look at facilities in areas where there is a dense population. That's exactly what we've done. So I want to have an open debate. I also want to be open about how the Sports Association uses the funds. We have previously given money to five different posts, and we have also followed up the Storting note that we have to make sure that the money goes to what the Storting wants. The National Audit Office has also pointed out that there has not been a good enough follow-up to where the funds are going. I want to make sure that this happens, and I look forward to the meeting I will have with the rental in the Sports Association today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e209	I thank you for your answer. In the time I've been sitting on Stortinget, it's not free for me to miss both visions and goals for the sports sector. This applies in particular after the tipping key was changed and a lot of fresh money was added to the sector. After this media focus, it becomes very clear that we need this openness and this discussion. The condition of the Grand Duchy is important for the top-notch to be recruited, and this should also give the Grand Duchy a chance to think something about. Will the State Council promote a sports communication and develop a sports policy for the Stortinget in the near future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e216	If Stortinget asks for a sports message, I have nothing against it. But it's not that long since the Storting had this for treatment, in the previous period. I then thought that the representative Woldseth should go back and read the message and also the debate that was in Stortinget. Then a few clear answers to the questions asked by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e222	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e225	As the Council of State should know, there has been a significant change in sport Norway following the sports announcement, namely that we have received a changed key as a result of a proposal from me and Per Sandberg from the Progress Party. We are therefore very concerned that the reinforcement contained in the change decision for the key should benefit from the sport. Therefore, it should be in place with a new sports message, says the Progress Party. My question to the Council of State is: On the basis of the uncertainty that arises from the many media headlines, and the strong use of words that has been between the Council of State and the Association of Sports, can the Council of State assure the Government that the fresh money from the key is distributed and will be distributed according to the intention of the Storting? It is a question that should be answered yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e232	Yes, I have, and so will I in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e237	Magnar Lund Bergo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e240	Fertiliser mining is probably no sport, it is at least not beautiful, and I will describe the debate on sport policy in the last 14 days as a game-making policy. SV does not want to pick up on the shelf choir and change the principles that are currently being allocated to sport, which we have had since the 1940s, in the light of the heated and uprooted debate that we have had about 30 million. kr. However, we believe that an assessment of the appropriateness of the current system may be sound, or whether the Storting should make the allocation of tipping agents. We would like to take part in that debate, but we believe that the initiative for such a debate in SV must come from sport even after the discussion on sports. Would the Council of State welcome such a debate if sports asked for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e247	Yes, absolutely. I stick to the system we have today, and I pursue the policy that both big business and government have our own, as well as sports and special associations so far. If there is a demand from the special federation and the sports that we do something about how these funds are to be distributed, there will be no resistance to it from my side. I look forward to such a debate with great optimism. I have nothing to hide. All the funds that come in have gone back to sport. I have followed up the direction lines that Stortinget has given me. Such a debate seemed like I can only be positive, because then a real set of focus is on how the funds are used, and what the Storting wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e252	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e255	The change in the key that the bulk of the population received against the votes of the government parties means that Norwegian sport will receive nearly DKK 1 billion each year. It's the government that distributes those funds. The idea behind this was that the sport itself should have a significant influence on how the money was used. Now there is a violent conflict between the top elected body of sport, the Board of Sports, elected by the Sports Council, the special federations and the sports councils through their representatives there, and the Department. Does the Council of State see that this is a serious problem, and will she extend far to meet the sport in relation to how the sports board itself wishes unanimously to distribute the money? Does she also see that there may be a democratic deficit that DKK 1 billion is distributed without an open political debate here in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e262	First of all, my comment that changing the key happened against the Government's will: I want to remind the former government council that when he put in government, there was no change from the Labour Party. That they changed their position after he left the government, I did not think I was particularly impressive. But I like the money, and I'm glad that the sport gets these. I want to listen to what the sport says, and then I want to listen to what the whole sport says, not just to what some leaders in the Sports Association say, but to all the specially-connected, whole sports movement. I have seen that Giske is trying to act like a mercenary between Kran and me. No need for that. I have responded to the attack from the sports president, and I will have a meeting with him. I have invited you to a meeting and look forward to it. But what's obvious is that even the Sports Federation must be aware of what they're using. It is also quite clear to me that when I increase the rights of the Sports Association in two years by over 40 million. kr, I will not cut down. That's why I thought the language used by the Kran and the Sports Association, which Giske has hooked up to, is quite unique, but I think we're going to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e269	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e272	I would like to ask the Minister of the Church a question. It has emerged in the public debate that the League of Missions has a desire to refuse homosexual membership and has also issued guidelines to its 108 local associations to follow it. In the public debate, it has also emerged that some people believe that this is a theological issue. Some would argue that this is not a theological question, but a question of gay rights, a question of tolerance and respect, a question of combating bullying and discrimination against people who have a different orientation than the majority. But this is a question in the public debate. My question to the Minister of the Church is: Does she agree that this is a theological question, or does she think that these are issues that are the subject of public debate by different social actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e282	When it is theologically related to homosexuals, it is clear that living together as a homosexual in the various religious environments is different from the Bible, the Koran, or whatever it may be. That it's a theological question, there's no doubt about it. But then it is also obvious that this is a debate that engages strongly. The nature of theological position of the different church communities has also been reduced in relation to State aid. I follow that debate carefully. To me, it's pretty obvious that exactly homophilic in relation to the Bible and the Koran is a theological question, where I'll believe that part of the Norwegian population is against homophilis, they interpret the Bible that way, others he interprets so that there's nothing in the way of living out their homophilis. We have to respect that. It's theology, it's not politics. But when it comes to the rights of the homosexuals, otherwise, it's a political question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e289	This answer was, with all due respect, not good to get wise. In Valgerd Svarstad Haugland's own government there is a member named Dagfinn Højbrätten, who is also the leader of the Christian People's Party, who has publicly said that he believes this is a theological question. It is a union he himself is a member of, and he has not wanted to distance himself from this. It's a vision that most people don't think belongs to a modern, tolerant society. I accept and respect that different people may think this is a theological question. But my question to the Minister of the Church is: Does the Council of State really think that it is right of a government council in which she herself sits, to hide behind the fact that this is a theological question, instead of going out to the public and saying that this I believe is not right, I do not agree with the statutes of my own local association at this point, they have the right to believe it, but I personally will disagree? Does not the Minister of the Church think that this will be a natural reaction of a member of the Bondevik government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e296	I respect that Dagfinn Højbrätten has chosen to answer the question as he has done. And I think that when it comes to the political issues in relation to homophilis, like, among other things. The law of partnership, all parties must have a position. But when it comes to some of the theological questions, in the Christian People's Party – as in the SV and the Labour Party – there will be different interpretations of theology. This is not a political question; it is a theological question. The fact that he did answer that way, I respect. I don't intend to overdo his answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e301	There will be three follow-up questions – first Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e304	It's a little strange to hear the Council of State from the Christian People's Party try to distinguish between theology and politics in this way, considering that it's a party that actually has the word "Christian" in its name and thus has a policy based on theological. Obviously, there are many things that can hide behind theological arguments. You can hide women in cans with theological arguments. You can marry twelve-year-olds with theological arguments. But there are equally strong political issues that a Council of State must be able to address. My question directly to our Minister of Culture and the Church is: Does she think it is wrong that churches exclude homosexuals because of their lay? Does she think that those questions are political, and that, as the Council of State, she has a responsibility to fight for equivalency even when the theological arguments are used for discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e311	I would like to repeat that it is free to answer the theological questions or one. I have a lot of understanding of the commitment these questions are going on, but I want to fight to my dying day to let people know what they want from their own interpretation of the Koran or the Bible. It's important to have respect for the fact that people can mean different things. I'm probably more liberal than many people think when it comes to these questions, but I still want to keep fighting for people to have the opinion they have on theological questions. When it comes to including the Christian People's Party and the party's name in this way, I would like to stress that one of the things we've been working with in the party is that it's a political party, we're taking our stand on the political issues. That our members and our voters have a lot of different views on these issues, yes, we live with that, but it is also important to stress what is a political party's responsibility in relation to its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e318	Heidi Sørensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e321	The Prime Minister launched an anti- bullying campaign for work in his New Year's speech. I suppose that would also apply to those who were discriminated against or bullied because of their sexual orientation. Now, on the other hand, we have been told by the new leader of the Christian People's Party, and the government council, that this has not been commented on. It's not like the Council of State said here, that it's okay to mean what you want. But the Council of State has refused to comment on the question of whether it is possible that the League of Missions discriminates against people with a different sexual orientation than what is considered to be the normal. Is it true that one can hide behind the fact that this is a theological question, in order not to address an important issue of equal rights, discrimination and bullying?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e330	I'll try to repeat the answer that I've given, that it's important to have respect for different positions here. Then it's about bullying -- bullying against homofiles or bullying against those who have a conservative view of homophilis. This is where the bullying goes both ways. I have great respect for the fact that gay people want to fight for their dishes both within church communities and organizations, and I will not stop the fight they are conducting to get their dishes. At the same time, I also want respect for those who stand for something else, and I have in no way intended to overdo Dagfinn's High Course in relation to his answers to these questions. We are also trying in the Christian People's Party to emphasize what is theology, and what is a political question. I would like to repeat that with us there is a different view of these questions, as it is probably also in the Labour Party, Right, SV and the other parties. That's what I thought we had to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e337	Ulf Erik Knudsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e340	I record that on the SV side you are very concerned with the Christian congregations. I could demand the same commitment with regard to the Muslim communities and the female discrimination contained in them. It's far worse than I think the gays are going to be exposed to in Norwegian Christian life. I want to focus on another side of this matter. On the part of the Progress Party, we are concerned that politicians should involve themselves as much as possible in the internal lives of individual communities and how they practice their religion. I'd like to ask the Council of State if she could do a little homage around what could be promoted by matters for the Storting in order to make a clearer distinction between the political system, corruption and government, on the one hand, and the churches on the other, so that politicians get less opportunity to interfere in Christian life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e348	I have to admit that I had not asked myself exactly that question. It should also not be done in a spontaneous Question Time. But at least I can promise the representative one thing, and it's not like there's any suggestion to cut out state support every time some church community thinks something that we're not in, or that we might be halfway in, or completely disagreed in, or some times even in. The point is that one of the things that is most intolerant in this discussion is when one shouts to remove state support immediately says something that we don't like. In the name of tolerance, we will accept that people have different opinions both in relation to theology and in relation to what they preach, as long as one remains within the Norwegian law. That is what will be the basis of the policy that this government will pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e353	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e356	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. We've been told in the last few days that the Spanish shipyard Dragados is unable to complete the delivery to Statoil's Kristin platform in time. Instead, Aker Stord has to step in and take care of at least 150 000 extra hours. This is particularly interesting because it was just Aker Kværner who lost in the competition with Dragados, and it has been claimed by several that the reason they and other Norwegian shipyards lose is that they are too expensive. The history of the Kristin platform does show that this is not quite right. My question is: does the Council of State think it is a problem that missions go abroad, with negative consequences for the Norwegian shipbuilding industry and thus Norwegian jobs, and it turns out that the foreign yards are unable to deliver?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e365	In principle, I could have answered with one word: yes. The fact that sometimes later it turns out that Norwegian companies have made unwise decisions is something one cannot vaccinate against. It will also happen in the future, I think that's quite obvious. When it comes to whether this matter is to be ruined under the category of unwise decision, I do not think we have seen the final judgment, but one should not ignore the fact that Statoil has made an unwise decision. In that case, it won't be the first. After all, this company has made a series of unwise decisions that have ended up requiring former social democrats to leave the group leaders, so it is a company that is not unaware of misconceptions. If they've done it in this case, there's no reason to claim now. The representative talked about these 150 000 hours, which she called extra hours of work. I guess that's not right, but it's moving 150,000 hours, as far as I know, that's being added in one place and subtracted from another place. But I do not overlook the fact that in this case it turns out that the premises that Statoil had for its decision are not fully met, and in this way it is clear that it is unfortunate for Statoil and for the Norwegian companies that could otherwise have had this whole contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e372	I am pleased that the Council of State agrees that this is not a good thing. What I'm a little concerned about is that it's not just about tendering prices, it's also about what the final price can be. I'm very interested in what the bill looks like when this is finally done. I hope we don't see the same thing in other big contracts too, because when we fight to build out, it's snow white, the Kristin platform or anything we're very much for, we're going to participate in an international competition, but it's going to happen on equal premises. One of the reasons we're going in to expand both here and there is that we want to secure Norwegian jobs. So I wonder if the Council of State will take an initiative towards Statoil, as it seems that we are quite in agreement that this is not the best case for Statoil, in order to do that one can to prevent similar things happening in the future, and to learn from this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e377	Without underestimating its own influence on the maths in Statoil, I think that organisation is quite capable of evaluating the projects it is carrying out, and possibly the mistakes it is making. I fully agree with the representative Brustad when she says that it is not only the tender sum, but also the final sum that matters. The point is that at the time you award a contract, you don't know the final sum. That's what's hit not only Statoil, but also other companies. Statoil may have been one of the major exponents for differences between the totals and the finals. You don't know that. Even politicians don't know that. What is quite obvious is that no one has any greater interest in the fact that there is a high degree of agreement between the total and the final sum than the company awarding the contracts, and that is Statoil. And I feel pretty sure that the figures in Statoil have a very high degree of attention to it – not least for the sake of the political attention that the matter had in front of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e382	There will be three follow-up questions – first Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e385	The Kristin platform is one thing. The other thing is Snow White. Stavanger Aftenblad reports today that Statoil is also under ban – the contract period will not be held, and one will thus have problems delivering this before the unvarert entered into Finnmark. So this is going to be a problem that actually just increases. Now, government councils view privatisation as the great goal of all business as a driver. SV was in its time against the privatisation that happened in relation to Statoil, and as well. The working party and others are floating through. Does he have any countermeasures against Statoil, which is privatized as the largest owner, sitting on the sidebar without being able to take control and actually now seems to mess up some contracts? In addition, will the Council of State, on the basis of the EEA Agreement, which forces us to some extent, consider whether it is possible to break up the contracts, so that the Norwegian authorities actually have more contracts linked to the Norwegian base?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e394	Let me first give the representative Langeland the right that SV was against privatisation. Among the things he mentioned were other things he was opposed to. He was against expanding Snow White at all. The deserted, barren landscape that lies on the Milky Island, was to be exactly as it was yesterday. Fortunately, SV did not get the will there either. The development of Snow White has really led to the vitalization not only of the Norwegian shipyard industry, but of the entire industry in the north. So it's a very good project. Let me put it this way: if the representative of Langeland believes that it was during the partial privatization of Statoil that the abomination occurred, he is very bad at the history of Statoil. The big scandals in Statoil happened before the privatisation, precisely because there was no one looking at the cards. The fact that Statoil and other companies are now being checked every day and every hour of the day at the Norwegian Stock Exchange and on stock exchanges internationally makes the vigilance much bigger, and the consequences become dramatic at the moment you can't stay on track. I have full confidence in what is happening in Statoil, but we are not yet in the world where you can implement the project for 47 billion kroner without something that you have not foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e399	Next follow-up question - Olav Akselsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e402	I don't think this matter has so much to do with the ownership or organisation of Statoil, but it has a lot to do with Norwegian jobs. What we know is that because these two important assignments went abroad, thousands of Norwegian industrial jobs have been lost. Petroleum slova has two clear arrangements to operate oil business in Norway. One is that it will be the property of the people and will benefit everyone. The second is that in the light of this natural resource, we will build our own industry. This means that it is an obligation for anyone who engages in petroleum activity, whether oil companies or politicians, to ensure that it is possible to drive industry out of these resources. What has been the trend in Norway is a strong dialogue between all those involved, including politicians, where politicians have met the demands of the industry and arranged for the development of fields. It has also been done in one of these two cases. It has also been common for one to put a certain pressure back. My question is: is it that the Minister of Industry does not feel any responsibility to try to save Norwegian industrial workplaces in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e408	I do not know where the representative Akssen should get the impression that you should not feel any responsibility. We have a definite responsibility to facilitate Norwegian companies to win contracts that are out of tender. There is no doubt about this. We have benefited from that responsibility over the course of these two years, by the fact that the framework conditions for operating that type of business have changed significantly positively, which means that we are now actually experiencing a very optimistic attitude in Norwegian business. Yes, in fact, the latest survey shows that no country in Europe has a more positive and optimistic business with regard to the future. As regards the petroleum law and the premises relating to its own industry and the property of its people, that is quite right. That's something that we of course fully support. But the representative Akssen knows very well that one of the mechanisms for controlling Statoil fell away when the government, with the Akssen, proposed the partial privatisation of Statoil – which was also a very sensible move, but then one of the mechanisms was lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e415	Next follow-up question - Morten Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e418	There are opportunities to ensure that missions in Norway go to Norwegian enterprises and secure Norwegian jobs. It seems to me that the authorities of other countries are more active in using such opportunities than this government has been. Less than a year ago, Stortinget decided that a guarantee should be given to build four gas ferries. It was primarily to ensure jobs in Norwegian yards, where there are major problems right now. It's said that we can get 5,000 unemployed in the yard industry this year if nothing happens in particular. Many months have passed since the decision, and no ferries have yet been ordered. One of the possibilities to ensure that this comes to Norway is to use research and development contracts, which will give us an advantage over others in this technology in terms of both research and doing the job. My question is, how far has the Council of State and his department come to ensure that the construction of the four gas ferries is made in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e425	It is absolutely right that there are significant challenges in the shipbuilding industry. A contract volume of DKK 2.5 billion was concluded in 2003, while industry’s capacity is 12.5 billion. That means you have a big challenge. It is a challenge for the entire European shipbuilding industry. We have a number of concrete projects that are now in the process of being materialized. Now it is not my department, but the Ministry of Transport that deals with this matter related to the gas ferries. As far as I've been aware by the Minister of Transport, it's a decision just around the corner in that way. In addition, we have a project for assessment that comes from Fosen, which is in the same street, a research and development project. I think it is very important also to take on board the yard industry on the basis of such an angle, that there are new innovative processes we are setting in motion to bring about new development. It is very positive, and it is very good projects that lie here. I hope we can finalize it relatively quickly, and hopefully with a positive starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e432	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e435	I'll ask the Minister of Industry a question. The impact selection has recently provided thorough evidence that traditional district and industrial policies are working. Bondevik II has reduced the level of ambition in this field, despite the fact that prior to 2001, SND contributed to 6 000 new jobs and municipal nutrition funds to 1800. The main actions of the government, general tax laws and the TaxFUNN, have a clear centralist effect, according to the Impact Selection. The same thing has the exemption of state action. There is a great deal of distance between the Minister of Industry's point of view that the toolbox is becoming empty, and the effect of the Effektsvarktion (Effektsvarktion) indicates that there is room for action here, but it says about political will. Is the government willing to reconsider its lack of industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e444	Let me first take this with centralization. Now, as far as I remember on the move, without having the entire statistics on the hard disk, it has been a continuous so-called centralization since the war. At least this government hasn't been sitting since the war. A little over half of Norway's municipalities experience a decline in the population. If there's one thing I'm not sure about, it's that if you're going to be able to hold back the removal power, it demands the creation of profitable jobs. It's also the main device of what we do in relation to business policy. Let me say it this way: I definitely feel that what the government has done these two years, has been a very successful project. We now experience that through the feedback that comes from the industry. We have done exactly what has been the recommendations, what we should address, in relation to the fundamental challenges. The challenges were linked to the price of the crown, and they were linked to the level of interest and tax relief. We have reduced taxes by 20 billion through three budgets. That has been the very basis for the optimism we are now experiencing. If you had granted NOK 100 or NOK 200 million more to SND, there's probably no one in this room that can say with your eyes up there that it would have been a brilliant alternative. It's not what has been recommended by international organisations, from the OECD and others, it's been the very basic things. Now the situation is that we have succeeded in this, and the effects of this are seen every day. Now we're moving on by establishing a new innovation policy to go with the whole country, the coast around. Then we will also address the challenges that are specific to some areas that have not been addressed in the past, but where you have just sprinkled some cinnamon like hist and piste. Now we are launching five-eight major projects in one week to just meet what Meltveit Kleppa is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e452	When I listen to the Council of State, I find first of all the reason why I should ask: does the Minister of Industry at all want to get involved in what the effect selection very clearly points to, i.e. the centralist effect that the Government's policy leads to? Secondly, does he want to see the new Innovation Norway get funds according to the heavy equipment that is now being built, and also in relation to the demand for it in the various regions? Let me give you an example: the Western Council had met the previous week, actually the same day that the Effect Selection revealed its setting. They ask for the same as the Centre Party has long pointed out, namely the possibility of stimulating local advantage and the possibility of stimulating knowledge and skills as a basis for new jobs. And they're asking for more power. Is the Council willing to follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e457	As far as I remember, the Western Council had six points that we were given. I seem to remember that at least five of those points fit almost correctly with what's in my own party's program. I want to remind you that one of the most important things they took up was keeping resources locally related to their own tax receipts and related to resource allocation, and not collecting everything until you distribute it again. But the most important thing, and of course the Western industry is concerned about, is the conditions for operating this industry. That's what this is about. The impact sample and other samples point to what we all know, namely that there is a centralisation and also a regionalisation in the country. The size allows large amounts of money each year to try to counteract this – you can't just say that you've succeeded in the last 50 years, we have to admit some of this reality. The most important thing for me is to try to establish profitable jobs in the districts. That's going to be the assumption for settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e462	There will be follow-up questions – Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e465	Hallgeir Aalbu, Chairman of the Power Selection Committee, clearly says that we need more district policy in Norway and not less. And when I have the pleasure of traveling around and visiting businesses in the whole country, I hear the same thing: we don't just need tax havens, that's enough, but what we need is an active business policy where we get help when we're in wave valleys. That is why we in SV are very happy that we have got the Government and the Minister of Industry to join a seed fund that will be used for underprivileged areas where you are struggling. My question to the Minister of Industry will be as follows: Does the Minister of Industry see that some parts of the country need special treatment during periods when they are in wave valleys, and is it also willing by the Government to follow up the thinking that was shared with SV when establishing this Seed Fund for Deprived Areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e473	There is no doubt that the term ‘one must have more district policy and not less’ is a universal concept to be followed. But that doesn't mean we have to send a few million kroner more around hist and piste. I feel quite convinced that an alternative application of some of the billions we, for example. sent in the last 30 years, had had a far greater impact on establishing profitable jobs than the way we have done it. That is why one of the most important issues we have now, through what we have started with the innovation project that we are presenting next Tuesday, is precisely to look at the imperfections that are in the district market, and what are the obstacles to the creation of viable jobs. After all, billions have been sucked down in the last 30 years to achieve that goal, but without success. That's why we have to look at an alternative application for some of these means.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e478	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e481	The impact sample also has some points of view on the use of agricultural transfers, which are about the same. 20 billion dollars a year, including the protection aid, and there is a point of view that these funds could produce far better results if they had been spread across more industries and industries and not so closely linked to agricultural policy. From 1976 to 1997, 500 billion in 1997 were spent on agricultural aid, and during that period we had the largest migration of Norway’s history from the districts to the central districts. Will the Council of State go in and look at the assessments made by the Impact Committee in this area, so that we can get more out of taxpayers' money in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e488	One cannot underestimate the fact that the representative points out that 500 billion have been spent on agricultural transfers. So I'm sure the views will differ as to whether you've been successful or not, but it's at least an undeniable fact that the decline in the number of annual agricultural work has been constant since the war, between 2,000 and 3,000, and it still has, in fact, regardless of the level of appropriations. I don't want to go into what is specific to agriculture. I just want to say that in relation to the projects that I now intend to launch in total, which relate to innovation, innovation, the creation of jobs from Lindesnes to Nordkapp, a completely natural part of it will be to cut back to the means we use in this device in total, not necessarily specifically in relation to agriculture, but also an alternative to the same purpose that might be even better to achieve the goal of housing across the country based on profitable jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e495	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e498	I have a question for the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Ansgar Gabrielsen, but first I have to go into the Ministry of the Environment's field, and this is about electronic navigational charts. We can't get better electronic charts than the survey is, and it's up to 200 years old. The transfer to electronic navigational charts comes from paper maps, and the users of these electronic navigational charts are also the responsibility of the Minister for Maritime Affairs. Then the question is, isn't it time we set up a maritime disaster commission, after the "Rocknes" crash? We have not yet reached the conclusion, but it is indicated that the sailed after electronic maps and old measurements. It's an old demand from the fishermen that we have a breakdown commission. Isn't it time for it to be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e505	First of all, the representative Bastesen said initially, that electronic navigational charts are no better than the measurements that have been made. It's a useful reference from a coastal expert man. Because if you convert a lot of old paper maps into electronic maps, they don't get any clearer for that reason. Of course, it's important to measure, and it's also using a lot of resources. But it is quite obvious that getting this electronically will be an advantage not only for the measurement you have, but it will be important for the continuous update. Therefore, it is an important aspect of the safety aspect of maritime transport that we have electronic mechanisms that allow us to upgrade continuously, so that one stage does not sit on information about measurements that do not come to the knowledge of those on the bridge. That's a very important point. So to this with the accident commission – I have responded to that in the past. The Ministry of Justice has a case here to deal with. But in the Sem Declaration, we have talked about and expressed our willingness to see all these areas in one context. As far as shipping is concerned, there is therefore an additional dimension related to international conventions that we must also take into account, as I said, precisely because we are a large maritime nation and are concerned that we should also be able to follow our ships, our seafarers, in all waters – no matter where anything happens. So we're going to look at the possibility of a joint accident commission, but of course we're also going to reserve the right to go beyond any coastal state, based on the fact that we're the flag state of our ships.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e514	I am not reassured by the Government's haste in this matter. We've been demanding a maritime accident commission for many years. We're a shipping nation, and it should be in place that we get a breakdown commission, in line with what we have in aviation. We're not an aviation nation, but we're a shipping nation, so can the Council of State ensure that this matter is proceeding?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e521	That's actually one of the points, what the representative Bastisen says: we're not an aviation nation, but we're a maritime nation. That's why there are some additional dimensions we have to take into account when we're going to set up these kind of commissions. Let me say it so that I will not forge any conclusion on what the Ministry of Justice is doing, but it should not surprise me if the people who are sitting and working on it have read the Sem statement. I believe that to a very great extent will fulfill the Bastisen's desire in this area, an area where the Bastisen's commitment is highly affordable – and I share it fully – namely, safety along the coast, not only for seafarers, but also for fishermen. Both the Bastisen and the undersigned have seagoing times as fishermen, and we know how important it is with charts. We take this seriously, and the responsibility of getting this also electronically, I do, and I take that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e528	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e534	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 7, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, has been withdrawn. Question 11, from the representative Signe Øye to the Minister for Oil and Energy, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 17, from the representative of Mr Liones to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice, who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Justice, the question is moved and answered in response to question 5 to be answered by the same Council of State. In addition, question 19 from the representative of Marit Arnstad was raised by the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e552	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The Tibetan Buddhist Tenzin Delek Rinpoche was sentenced to death by the Chinese authorities on 2 December 2002 and has since been imprisoned. Rinpoche was strongly committed to the social and religious rights of the Tibetans, and the judgment seems related to this. The Chinese authorities have been violating human rights in Tibet for decades. What will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to the Chinese authorities as regards the human rights in Tibet in general and the situation of Rinpoche in particular?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e566	The government is still concerned about the human rights in Tibet. The situation in Tibet is therefore a central theme of our dialogue with Chinese authorities. During the autumn UN General Assembly, Norway addressed China’s policy on the treatment of prisoners, freedom of religion and the death penalty. The importance of protecting the cultural and religious identity of Tibet was also underlined. As I stated in my answer to questions from the representative Ballo in the Question Time on 9 April last year, Norway has on several occasions expressed concern about the lawsuit against the Buddhist monk Tenzin Delek Rinpoche. During an appeal in January 2003, he was sentenced to death for two years. The suspension shall be counted from the date of the arrest, which was in April 2002. We have also been engaged in the case of Tenzin Delek Rinpoches in recent months. For example, we took this up at political level during Norwegian-Chinese consultations on human rights last November. As late as last week, our ambassador in Beijing raised the question of the conditions of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche in contact with the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The ambassador stressed that Norwegian opinion is concerned about the matter. He indicated that the two-year postponement of the death sentence will expire in April, and that we fear that he will then be executed. From the Chinese team, it is stated that when the postponement is over, the prisoner's case will be brought to trial in a court that will either order the death sentence to be executed or turn it into a prison sentence. The vast majority of such judges are turned into prison sentences.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e579	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. I am pleased that initiatives have been taken in various ways to draw the attention of the Chinese authorities to the fact that you are aware of the matter and that you are concerned about human rights in Tibet. So on March 17, it's been 45 years since the 14th. The Dalai Lama was driven in exile in Tibet, and on October 4th it will be 15 years since the Nobel Committee announced that he had been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. What I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether the Norwegian authorities are working closely with foreign authorities, whether they are members of the EU or internationally, to increase pressure on Chinese authorities to respect human rights in Tibet, and whether it is in agreement with the strategy that, among other things, is taking place. The Dalai Lama has set out to improve human rights for the people of Tibet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e586	I am happy to say that there are several people who are engaged along the same lines as Norway, and that there is therefore a significant international pressure on this issue. We have noticed that once the EU has addressed itself in the same ways that we have done, the Chinese show that Norway has also addressed this issue. So I think you could say that we are contributing here to a common international pressure that is particularly important in that matter. What lies at the heart of the issue, namely the Tibet situation in general, I think I can assure Ballo that there is also one thing on the Norwegian agenda that we are discussing with the Chinese about, where we are making clear what our positions on those issues are.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e593	What you see when there's an international commitment, perhaps especially in relation to the major powers, is that there can often be financial interests related to the exposure. We've seen it in Iraq, we've probably seen it in Afghanistan, and we've seen it around the world. It is obvious that in the case of Tibet, there will be few interests both for Norway and for larger nations. It will simply be the human rights as those on the map. However, this could conflict with Norwegian interests, for example. in a relationship with China, which is a great power in itself. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs comment on the extent to which such implications are involved, and thus to a lesser extent engage in countries like Tibet to improve the conditions of the population there?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e602	There are no assessments that can control how we operate other parts of the policy. I dare say that we have a profiled dialogue with Chinese authorities, among others. as regards human rights issues. That's why we have a formalized human rights dialogue with them. It's not going to come to the fore to pursue other parts of our policy towards China.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e610	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘In several cases, the Information Society’s fund increases the fixing fees dramatically. For an area to a sports field in Lom Municipality, the fee will increase from NOK 300 per person. year to NOK 55000. In the municipality of Nord-Fron, OVF has land leases with farmers. Farmers have invested large sums of money in the tillage of the land and have contributed to the increase in value. Now they are offered only five-year contracts and a fee increase of several hundred percent of OVF. Does the Council of State consider this acceptable, or should the OVF take into account other than market value?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e619	I have obtained background information from the Information Service Fund on the matters to which the representative refers. I can so inform you that the sports ground in Lom and the area here have been rented out since 1949. The rental price was then NOK 100 for 25 deks. The rental price has changed twice during these years, and has been NOK 300 since 1978. Otherwise, during these years the area under hire has been extended to 46 deches. The leases expired in 1999. The question now is the condition for a new lease or purchase. I am aware that negotiations are in progress on the purchase of the area. In connection with this, the fund has not presented an absolute demand for a purchase price. Because it is a purchase, the fund has also not presented a specific rental requirement as the representative refers to. In Nord-Fron, there are eight gardeners in the Weikledal Valley who have had 20-year-old land leases with the fund. The terms of these leases are the result of the leases. The leases were concluded between 1981 and 1982, and the fund has now offered new contracts, with a deadline of 10 February this year. As we can see, contract negotiations are under way both in Lom and in North-Fron. During such negotiations, there will naturally be different views of the parties on prices and conditions. Based on the information I have received from the fund on these matters, I cannot see that there is a basis for me to instruct the fund on the intended solutions. I assume that the fund is handling these contract negotiations in line with the guidelines that apply to the management of the fund. On the basis of the question asked by the representative, I would also like to remind you that there is a broad political agreement on the guidelines for the management of the Fund. These were last submitted to the Stortinget of the Stoltenberg government in the spring of 2001 in connection with the Storingsmessage on the economy in Kyrkja. The management of the fund was discussed in this message. In this respect, it is a fundamental principle that the Fund should be managed in a commercially justifiable manner. It was also underlined in the message that market prices and normal market conditions should apply when selling and renting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e632	The information I refer to in my question comes from the chairmanship members of Lom Municipality and from the Bonde and Small User Team in Nord-Fron. I therefore have reason to believe that they are correct. I am not going to use this talking room for any reason to process or act as a lawyer for the sports team in Lom or for the farmers in North-Fron. But I use examples as an illustration of a business culture – yes, I would say almost on the verge of a greed culture – that has developed dramatically lately. So for farmers, an increase of 30 dollars per year is required. Depreciated at 150 SEK per month. dekar and offer for only five-year contract periods. As late as 1999, Statskog fixed on behalf of the Information Society's fund that only losses of forest production were to be made on the basis of the rental price. I am very aware that the Information Service's fund is an independent legal entity, and is aware of the fund's purposes and role. But the government has a management responsibility for the fund and gives the fund guidelines for the work. Does the Government believe that this business culture in relation to landowners, parties such as Lom sports teams, is in line with how a fund wishes to act?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e641	What it is natural for me to point out in the answer to the question from the representative is that the fund has submitted an offer for a purchase price in Lom and about the rental time and the rental space in Vegkledalen. It's not finally settled, but one is in negotiations. And for me to intervene in the negotiations, I don't think I'm particularly wise. When it comes to the guidelines that the fund is working on, it is the Stoltenberg government that has presented them to the Stortinget, and the Stortinget has adopted these guidelines. Then I think we should be careful to override the political deal that was actually in the Storting when this was handled. Then you can always draw out singles. But I'm surprised that the fund manages the resources that they have, for the benefit of the community, for society, that this is an offer that has been made for negotiation, and that the parties finally arrive at a deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e648	As I said, I do not want to conduct proceedings here. You can discuss whether this is an exit offer or a requirement. At least one feels that the Information Society Fund here represents a business culture that is not consistent with the social responsibility that everyone knows that the Information Society Fund has. Because if you go to the Information Society's fund's web pages, it actually says: ‘The aim of the Information Society Fund is to raise societal awareness of investment based on the ethical fundamentals of the Norwegian Church.’ On the web we find that not least the Christian People's Party has been very busy with this, among other things. by Elsa Scarbøvik from Stortinget speaking chair in his time. And when one is so busy that the investments are supposed to be societally aware and based on ethical fundamentals, it badly harmonizes with the business culture that is shown when it comes to sports and farmers in North-Fron. I have a feeling that we might be driving a little bit of a mix of cathedral and stock exchange where the stock exchange wins. Does it not appear that the Council of State is in need of a new review of the guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e660	I don't see any urgent need for a review of the guidelines. I would also like to ask the question of what is social-esthetic when it comes to managing society's resources: giving individuals special advantages over others, or not. I think the fund is trying to manage these resources that the community owns, in the best possible way for the community, and that it also takes into account the implications of the different issues. There are now negotiations on this, and I did not think we should draw any conclusions until we see what the outcome of these negotiations is.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e671	I want to ask the Minister of Culture and the Church the following questions: ‘On January 20 and 22, 2004, in the newspaper Oostlanden, we were able to read about a couple who wanted to baptize their daughter in the Våler Church. The priest said no, and the reason was that a non-believer should stand the father of the child. In the Elverum church in the neighbouring municipality, it was possible to get the child baptized with the same father. Does the Council of State see that this can cause frustration, and that the word people's church loses something of its importance?'
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e680	For the Norwegian Church, general provisions on infant baptism are laid down. When fathers are involved, you can read the following: ‘The fathers take on important tasks in relation to the Christian custody of the child and shall be chosen for the eye. The pastor is responsible for ensuring that parents choose such fathers as the rules. For fathers, only persons who are members of the Norwegian Church or other Christians who do not reject infant baptism can be chosen. If it is appropriate to refuse to be a member of the Norwegian Church, the matter shall be referred to the Bishop.’.» So when it comes to a father standing outside the Church of Norway, it follows from the predictions that the priest must at some point exercise a certain understanding. In practice, this rarely poses a problem, but it may seem that priests disagree as to whether a choice of fathers is consistent with the regulations. Every year between 40,000 and 50,000 children are drenched in the Norwegian Church. The child shall have a minimum of two and a maximum of six fathers. There are so many who get father tasks every year, and I find it hard to see that the case in Våler will change the people's experience of the Norwegian Church as a liberal and inclusive church.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e692	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am somewhat unsure whether the Council of State answered my question well enough. It will probably ring a bell at the Council of State when you get baptized a child with fathers in one church, but not in another — that is, in relation to the discrimination perpetrated by individual priests. And this doesn't just have to apply from municipality to municipality. After I delivered the question, I have heard that it can also happen with the clergy within the same congregation – that there is a difference between how priests care for this job, that you create a difference; one priest accepts the father, the other does not. And what I really asked the Council of State was whether she's aware of this, and whether she wants to tighten the law, or whether one does it even more liberally, so that everyone can accept fathers who necessarily don't have the same Bible faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e699	First of all, I don't want to bring a directive from the department on who is to be approved as a father. I think we should leave it to the Norwegian Church. And I referred to what's in the Treaty of Child Baptism. The main problem here was not, as the representative said, that one was non-threatening. The main problem was that it was one that was not a member of the Norwegian Church. So there's a couple of priests who think that it's not consistent with being a father, while others don't. I think this is a rare case. I have also seen some newspaper headlines on this matter. I have experience in how the media can angle different things, so I don't see my great faith in a part of what's there. But I think we should be so liberal that we can say that priests consider it a little different with membership of the Norwegian Church in relation to the approval of fatherhood or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e706	I thank you once again for the answer, which is still somewhat unclear in the practice of this important task. I'm not sure if those who carry their child to the baptism just choose fathers because they want the child to have a Christian assignment. I think that parents -- and I'm talking a little bit of my own experience -- also think about what happens to the child if they get away, and what the fathers can do. I don't think it's just acting in the Christian faith. I also think it comes in some practical tasks, tasks and problems, and that parents think a little bit about it. And that's the liberalism in view of the fact that others can do well as fathers, not only those who individual priests accept as fathers and other priests do not accept as fathers; it must be something more up to parents to judge – what you want, and who you want to have as fathers for one of the dearest things you have, namely, your child.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e713	I understand the supplementary question that the representative is raising, but then I have to remind you that we have the responsibility for baptism, to which the priest has to stick. It says this with membership of the Norwegian Church in terms of father's responsibility, which the priests also have to stick to. That many parents want to have fathers who can also take care of their children if something happens, I understand, but baptism is not for parents to have a safety net if an accident occurs with parents. Baptism has a special function, and it is also clear in the instructions what requirements priests can set. I don't think this is a big problem. When I said that we have between 40,000 and 50,000 baptisms in Norway – there are many who are elected fathers – I don't think this is a big problem. I think we should be so liberal that the slight inequality we have in the assessment of fathers, we must be able to live with
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e723	I have a question for our Minister of Agriculture: ‘The cross-border leakage of organic products is increasing. While looking for environmental goods in Norwegian shops with lights and lamps, Swedes offer a wide range of meat, dairy and bakery products in addition to a number of care products. Despite significant support for organic production, between 60 and 80 pst. of the meat and milk in Norway as ordinary shops. What will the Council of State do in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e732	I am not aware that border trade is to any significant extent linked to organic products. However, it is my clear position that Norwegian consumers, in the same way as consumers in our neighbouring countries, should have the opportunity to choose between a variety of different foods and qualities, including organic products. It's a goal of 10 pst. the agricultural area shall be organically operated by 2010, provided that it is a functioning market for organic products. This objective is used as the basis for the ministry's work. Publicly, therefore, all stages of the value chain are actively pursued in order to increase both the production and the placing on the market of organic products. As the representative Hedstrom points out, market developments still appear to be the largest bottleneck for the desired development. Our efforts have therefore increasingly been focused on solving this challenge. In this work, we have an active dialogue with market players to find the most agreed and effective measures possible. Among other things, we believe that the public has a special responsibility to contribute to more information for consumers on organic farming. At the invitation of the market actors, we have taken special care of this. Experience from the autumn information campaign on TV and online shows promising results in terms of consumer uptake and market interest. In 2004, the information work will continue and develop in dialogue with market players, and will include: be able to provide a basis for market participants to follow-up more closely with their own product-specific information. In addition, a number of market-oriented projects have been launched linking the entire value chain from land to table. Several ecological projects have also been launched within the food value added programme. I can also mention in particular that there is a temporary incentive scheme for meat with support for operators who contribute to organic meat production coming all the way out to the shops. This has been done precisely to meet the challenges related to the placing on the market of low volumes of organic meat production. However, I would like to stress that it is not possible for public authorities to regulate the production and placing on the market of organic products. We depend entirely on the efforts of market players and consumer demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e741	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no doubt that Swedish shops have a much better selection of eco-labelled organic products. You can get organic frozen pizza, organic beer, organic milk chocolate and liquorice, and you can wash your hair with swan-labelled shampoo and conditioner. In Stroemstad, there is a consumer business that is one of several hundred eco-labelled shops in Sweden that have a variety of samples, where also Norwegians flock more because they are not satisfied with their needs in Norwegian shops in the vicinity. What you notice – I have been there myself – is that the products are not only easily accessible, but they have a tempting appearance and a good taste. In Sweden, to take an example, 20 is pst. of the total number of litres of milk sold, organic milk. In Norway, I think it's between 1 pst. and 2 pst. This is proof that the Swedes have been successful. Is it not time that we in Norway, if these information programmes and incentive measures mentioned by the Council of State, do not have the desired result – this is not a new problem, since we dealt with the agricultural notification in 2000, was this a known problem – now trying to move on to new ways of achieving results?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e748	Well, I think we're totally dependent on going new ways, because we don't succeed in getting up the consumption increase for organic products that we want. Now we're producing a lot of organic products, but it's also true that Norwegian consumers don't demand them to a large extent. At least we should sell a lot more like organic products. There may be many reasons for this. We suspect that part of the sales channels – the large processing links – are not fully in the interest of marketing and bringing this to the shops. I also fully agree that we have too bad a deal around in the grocery stores we use. That's what we're working on, and it also does that when we're going to have negotiations on the agricultural agreement in the spring, we're going to focus on the entire ecological side to see if we don't have to move tools here and press over on it to get organic products out in the shops. It may be – if I am going to reflect on why Sweden and perhaps Denmark are ahead of us in this regard, and it is enough right – that the tension between organic production and traditional agricultural production, which is clearly more industrially influenced in those countries, makes people even more confident about organic products in those countries than in the small-scale and local food production that we have in Norway in conventional agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e755	I thank the Council of State for the additional response and have only a brief comment on this. We will then look forward to what is coming from proposals in this area in connection with the agricultural settlement and the agreement to the spring. There are significant subsidies and support schemes linked to organic production in Norway, and you can then question how right it is to set aside the large amounts for this, when more than half of the production is sold as ordinary goods. I hope that, not least for the sake of those who are involved, and the motivation for those who are involved in it, more practical solutions will be found in Norway, as well as what has been achieved in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e762	I fully agree with that. We've been pretty good at increasing the area. Now the ecological areas are increasing to 3.7 pst. We have said that it is good economics to change, but we cannot deal with the market side, and Norwegian consumers do not demand enough. I fully agree that it is not sustainable over time to invest so much resources in producing organic production, if that is how Norwegian consumers do not want it. That is why we need to make a effort there, because there is no reason to believe that there should not be as much interest in this in Norway as it is in our neighbours in the East and the South. That's why we need to think a little bit differently and maybe take a new grip, and that's what the department is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e770	I have the following questions for the country's Minister of Justice: ‘There is today a great need for more prison sites in Agder, especially in Kristiansand, where prison is unsuitable for long-term atonement. Today, police districts only use 20 years’ work to transport prisoners to prisons in other parts of the country. Crime is high in Agder, and from various professional teams, there is evidence of the lack of prison sites in the region. Does the Council see the need for more prison sites in Agder, and is he in favour of the plans to establish a new private prison in the district?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e779	We've been in a row in Norway for a while. For this reason, there is a great deal of pressure in prison places, both in relation to the implementation of legally enforceable unconditional judgments and in relation to detention centres. At the accumulator count per year. On 31 December 2003, there was a decline in the housing queue. The trend from the previous census, per cent. 30 September 2003, which also showed a decrease, has remained. The country is divided into six criminal care regions. The South-West Crime Region includes both the Agder counties and the Rogaland counties. This region has relatively small pay queues and has been transferred to a significant number of judges from the West Regional Criminal Office. The South-West region also has few violations of the so-called 24-hour rule in the placement of custody inmates at the time of registration. There are more judges in line and more pressure in prison places in parts of the country than in the South West region. This is particularly true in Hordaland, in the east and north of the country. The government has worked systematically to expand the number of prison sites between 2002 and 2004, in particular in those areas where the pressure on prison sites is high: the conversion of six sick cells in the Skien prison to ordinary places, 15 temporary places at Ullersmo prison, the conversion of Vardåsen camp at Kongsvinger to prison with 82 new places, the use of duplication, among others. in Bergen prison, 23 new places in Oslo prison from the summer of 2004, 60 new prisons, including the use of modular prisons, in Bergen prison, Trondheim prison and new Kingswings prison during the second half of 2004. In June 2004, Tromsø will be expanded to 25 new places and 14 temporary places in Tromsø will be continued after the decision of the Stortinget. In further efforts to establish more prison sites, priority is given to those areas with the highest needs. According to the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 2003-2004 in the United Kingdom, i.e. the 2004 budget, is the planning of a new prison in Halden, the expansion of the custody capacity in Bergen, several prison sites in the north, among others. through the evaluation of a new prison in Inner Salten, in the municipalities of Faauske and Sørfold, which will be given priority in this exercise. This implies that any new prison sites in the Kristiansand area must be awaited until other projects have been completed. I understand that Agder Police District wants a sufficient number of custody places nearby. Kristiansand prison has a caretaker covering that represents about half of the total population. two thirds of the places, and have a favourable location. In today’s situation, with both accomplices and pressure in custody places due to the 24-hour rule, criminal services should be able to offer police posts within the deadline, but this means that the space offered may result in additional transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e796	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But I would like to repeat that from several competent teams in Agder, it is pointed out that the lack of detention places is a significant problem in the South. In general, I would also like to note that I find it totally unacceptable to pay cows due to lack of detention facilities. I also see the lack of cells as a plug in crime policy today. Affliction cows make people lose confidence in the criminal justice system. For most people, it seems pointless that in Agder, relatively large police resources should be used to transport prisoners out of the country, because there is a shortage of prison sites locally and regionally, while private actors are willing to build a new prison to address this problem in the South. I hope the Council of State sees the logic of such reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e809	I see the logic of anyone who is proud of his profession and his job and happy in his part of the country. But I'm going to see the country as a whole, and in that context, for example, I want to see the country as a whole. show that at the turn of the year the payroll was 2597 persons in 51 persons in the south-west region. Other regions I don't want to mention the number, but those numbers are big. Of course, the queue is unacceptable. That's why we need to increase our capacity to reduce it. But to answer the question more in principle, the ministry and I are in principle not negative about private building and renting out prison buildings, as long as the prison is run by the state through the criminal justice system. With regard to the plans to set up a prison in this area in private and rent it out to the State, some legal issues first need to be resolved as to how this can be implemented, including: in relation to the rules on public acquisitions. This is now assessed by the Ministry in relation to the plans for a new prison in the Inner Salt, i.e. the Fauske-Sørfold project. However, lease financing will also entail costs that need to be seen in the context of budgetary priorities as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e818	Jet thankes the Council once again for the answer. But I am not among those who believe that crime in Agder will go down particularly in the future when the Council of State refers to the reconciliation queue there. I believe that the need for more prison sites, both nationally and nationally, is likely to increase rather than decrease in the future. I therefore believe that there are many good reasons to welcome a private initiative to build prisons in the South, in order to better meet both the future and the current needs for settlement capacity. Finally, let me ask the Council of State straight out: how on earth is what we've been doing in this country when criminals are in line for the simple reason that there are no available prison cells? Is it not time for us to really address this serious social problem, for example. by allowing private developers to escape?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e827	The Bondevik II Government, where I am the Minister of Justice, has, during 2002 and including the current year, provided approximately 400 new places. It is a significant capacity extension. It is also the case that those to be accommodated are taken into account according to the following priorities: 1st caretaker2. strict and serious crimes3. violence Many of those who are in line are of those who knock on the door and can report directly to open accolades. But it is clear that we do not accept the queue, no matter who is standing there, and therefore we are implementing measures to increase capacity. That is why we are also trying to shorten the queue for those who have milder reactions, for example. by using community sanctions and conflict advice. But I do not accept the reconciliation queue, which is why I have also used considerable energy to get to the approx. The 400 places that I have now prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e844	We go to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e851	This question, from the representative of Ingmar Liones to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister of Justice who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e854	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘The tragic loss of ‘Rocknes’ has led to major challenges both in terms of saving lives and in reducing environmental damage. What lessons can be learned from the collective effort associated with the crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e863	The ‘Rocknes’ accident in Vatlestraumen outside Bergen on 19 January was deeply tragic. As Minister of Justice, I am responsible for the overall coordination of the Rescue Service. I am very grateful for and proud of the efforts that have been made. No simple institution can do this task alone. Therefore, the interaction between public, private and voluntary resources demonstrated during the ‘Rocknes’ accident is crucial for our rescue response. The Government transferred responsibility for state preparedness for acute pollution to the Ministry of Fisheries of the Coastal State on 1 January 2003. This led to clearer responsibilities and has facilitated better coordination and exploitation of resources. The oil protection action of the coastal plant following the Rocknes accident has shown that this was a correct decision. I would also like to add that increased oil transport along the coast of North Norway has resulted in a number of new measures by the Government, including the strengthening of the tugboat equipment and the design of a maritime traffic centre in Vardø. A number of measures have already been put in place to identify the cause of this tragic loss. There has been a maritime explanation, which ended on Sunday 1 February. The maritime authorities shall examine the matter together with other authorities. The prosecution authority has also opened investigations. I think it's so natural to wait for this process. The Ministry of Justice is empowered to establish an independent investigation commission. The Ministry has not yet taken the initiative to do so, but the Government is following this issue closely. On Friday, the Main Rescue Centre will call on the actors involved to evaluate the rescue operation and to draw further experience. There is still a search for the dead, as it is known to all of us. I can assure you that the Government will do its utmost to follow up this matter until all unresolved questions are clarified. Work has already been undertaken between the departments concerned to look at the management of the accident by the authorities. The Ministry of Justice is also working on amendments to the Maritime Act. A key issue is the creation of a joint accident and accident-to-air and train commission. The government parties already went to Sem for such a joint commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e886	I would like to thank the Council of State for its answer. I noticed with pleasure the Council of State's response to a joint accident commission. Yesterday I had an interesting view of the sea in the area from the Alv Island northwards to the Ågotnes, which became the hardest frame of oil spills after the tragic loss. The sea surface oil is now removed, but the pollution and environmental pressures along the shoreline are still present. Municipalities are then given a significant responsibility for the clean-up work. So I want to ask the Council of State, first of all, will the cleaning work continue until the beaches are cleaned? And secondly, can the municipalities expect to cover all the additional expenses that they are incurred unscrupulously because of the rescue operation and the clean-up work?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e895	The Coastal Plant has the overall management of the oil protection operation and has had special responsibility for the maritime-related part of the action. The inter-municipal sample of acute contamination in Bergen manages the beach action. The Coast Guard has informed me that it is per year. On 30 January, more than 300 tonnes of oil emulsion — mixture of oil and water. The emergency phase of the oil protection operation ended on 30 January, at 1 p.m. 12, and parts of the resources were transferred to the beach action. All of the oils on the sea have been removed. Beach action is still in progress. It is uncertain how long it will take to complete the beach action. A gradual degression will take place and the preliminary forecast is that work can be completed within a period of one to two months. This oil protection operation is a state action. Consequently, it is the State that pays, and the municipalities will therefore not be given financial responsibility. The costs of cleaning up will later be addressed to the responsible polluter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e902	I would like to thank the Council of State for the additional response. It is good that we now have a time perspective on our work – that it can be completed within two months. Yesterday I received a detailed review of the work of the operations management in Bergen. The tragic loss has led to a full-scale testing of the overall preparedness, and the operating lease has resulted in detailed logbook of all operations associated with the licence. The Council of State mentioned in its first answer that a work has already been started between the department concerned to look at the treatment of the accident. From this point of view, I would like to ask the Council of State whether an evaluation report on the rescue operation and the clean-up work will be prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e911	In connection with the Memorial celebration in St. Paul's church in Bergen last Friday, I have put myself into the work of taking the dead out. I can inform you that in the event of special events, the Main Rescue Center calls on the actors involved to review the actual course of events surrounding the rescue operation. The first Friday such a gathering will be held in Bergen in connection with the ‘Rocknes’ wreck. A report will be written after such serious accidents, which, in accordance with common practice, are public. The coastal plant and the inter-municipal body for acute contamination in Bergen have a plan for evaluation. It is a longer run, as the oil protection operation is still ongoing, and there are many parties involved in part evaluations. Work is already under way in the Government between the departments concerned to look at the management of the accident by the authorities. First Friday, a meeting will be held at the Prime Minister's office on that occasion. I am registering the wish that a publicly available report on the cleaning-up operation will also be written. I would like to convey this wish to the Minister for Fisheries, who is responsible for the Coastal Plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e922	Then we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e928	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Proposals in one’s presence are a very important security for people with mental illness, and many have been helped by the proximity of the offer and, with it, have been released for a long time. The daily places at Hadeland DPS have been laid down, and Petershagen in the East Toten is threatened with closure. How will the State Council explain that this is in line with national plans and the psychiatry escalation plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e937	The representative of Brørby addresses a central issue in his question of the Roadmap to Mental Health, namely the need to strengthen services and to make a change. I allow myself to recall the premises that form the basis for the escalation plan. The county plans were through a comprehensive approval process. They were assessed by the State Health Authority, and they were finally approved by the Ministry. All county plans were approved by the Ministry before the hospital reform came into force on 1 January 2002. Regional health enterprises are obliged to continue their work on the approved county plans for strengthening the provision of services in the field of mental health protection. The starting point for the approval of the county plans is St.prp. No 63 for 1997-98, on the escalation plan for mental health 1999-2006. There were two main strategies, to which the Stortingen agreed, first of all a structure and, secondly, a significant restructuring of the service provision. The last assumption is considered essential for the success of the escalation plan. This could mean that hospitalised treatment services will be closed, relocated or transferred to municipalities. These were some of the challenges that Uppland County also faced in its time in its planning process, among others. in the Hadeland region. The Health Authority's assessment of the plan for Uppland County was that less attention should be paid to day-care facilities, and that more offers should be given outpatiently and so-called outpatiently. In this context, it is important to point out that the Stortinge has provided that, in particular, provision is to be made for strengthening the provision of community services to the mentally ill. The tasks of municipalities are to establish a good housing offer for the individual. In addition, municipalities shall develop necessary services such as home and recreational services and activities. The roadmap for mental health, as I have explained, places a strong emphasis on the conversion of the service provision. Conversion will often mean that something is being built up and something is being built down. At the same time, attention needs to be paid to the individual user and the implementation of a reduction must be avoided before any action on compensation is taken. I have made this crystal clear to regional health businesses. Health East has informed me that in this case, every patient concerned has been offered follow-up after the entry into force of this Decision. Individual plans have also been developed for each. As far as Petershagen is concerned, I assume that the relationship with the individual patient is adequately maintained, with the establishment of compensation measures in the municipality or in the specialist health service, as I have imposed on the companies. Propositions for the budgets for both 2003 and 2004 specify that regional health businesses need to assess the number of daily places to use alternative resources if this provides better provision for patients. In this context, it was shown that the entire 80-90 pst. of the total resources in Norway in the field of mental health protection are related to day-care services. More outpatient and outpatient activities from the specialist healthcare service will in principle also contribute to a better underpinning of municipal responsibilities, so that assistance can be provided more closely to the home environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e956	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree with the Council of State that there are still many challenges in psychiatry. After the 24-hour offer in Hadeland was closed and the nearest 24-hour offer, namely Petershagen, is also threatened with closure, patients feel like throwing balls in the system. It's completely incomprehensible to them that this is going to happen at a time when we're talking about a escalation plan in psychiatry. So the patients feel that it's a slowdown. This creates the anger, frustration and great insecurity of people who may need more than anything else predictability around them and their frameworks. It is a fact that 33 daily places on the Toten and in the Hadeland region are now listed or listed. There are currently no good substitutes visible. I do not think it is very reliable to assume that the municipalities, with the local economy they have, should be able to replace these alternative offers. Therefore, I challenge the Council of State again: Will he clarify even more clearly and once again to Health East and Hospital Inland their responsibility for not leading to fewer psychiatric places in Uppland?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e967	I see that in the cases where a change is to be made, something is being done to establish something else instead, there is a communication problem, because the escalation plan in its name signals that everything should be stepped up. But it has not been decided by the Storting. The size has said that it must be a significant change. The answer to the question from the representative Brørby is in the letter I sent to the regional health companies before Christmas, which is also referred to in the 2004 governance documents. I quote from the letter of 9 December 2003: ‘The Ministry will use the 2004 governance papers to clarify the need for proper care of individual patients in the event of changes. This also means that no degradation can take place until alternative offers are built up and thus made available.» The information I have received from Health East suggests that in the case of Hadeland this is established through individual plans. The representative Brørby seems to have other information, and I will, of course, double-check this. But it's a clear assumption from my side that that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e979	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think the Council of State is very concerned about, and also molested, to call it that, to the health care companies to make the psychiatry plan a success. So it's a fact that no one goes on demonstration trains for those who are mentally ill. The change in service provision has at least resulted in less proximity and greater frustration. And once again, it's a challenge for the State Council: when we evaluate the national targets, he'll make sure that the number of psychiatry sites in Uppland is not 25 pst. less, as indicated in the plans in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e986	I think it is important that, in a nuanced debate on these issues, we recognise that we are using between 80 and 90 pst. of the means of daily accommodation, while the aim is to obtain a greater degree of district and municipal treatment, with a greater emphasis on outpatient and outpatient services. Locking the development to the same number of daily places within a single area would be contrary to these objectives. But what's important is to keep the big picture in mind and at the same time see the individual patient. That's what's meant by the way I've approached this in relation to the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1002	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1008	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the post-Rusreform II conversions, it is reported that chronic drug users have to leave institutions they have been in for a longer period of time. This applies, inter alia, to: at the Fredheim Foundation in Hedmark. The municipalities of residence no longer have the finances to pay for the housing, and the clients are referred to housing they do not master. What will the Council of State do to avoid this situation where long-term abusers are referred to a scheme they cannot live with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1017	Initially, I want to clarify some aspects of the drug reform to which there may be some uncertainty. In implementing the drug reform from the turn of the year, the state of regional health establishments assumed the county responsibility for the treatment of drug users. As a result, 32 municipal institutions were owned by the regional health enterprises. In addition, there were 42 private institutions in which the regional health establishments entered into the former county agreements. Overall, 74 institutions were included in this drug reform. For the operation of these institutions, regional health enterprises have been transferred in total about 10 %. DKK 1.3 billion. Of these funds, 1,1 billion were transferred from the municipal and municipal budgets. These were funds previously used by county authorities and municipalities to respond to drug users. The municipal self-payment for residence at county treatment institutions for drug users has been lost, as the former county responsibility for the treatment of drug users is now defined as specialised health services and provided by the Special Health Service Act. Therefore, funds previously granted to the municipal self-payment for residence at county or county institutions were agreed upon by the county municipalities, deducted from the free income of the municipalities and transferred to the regional health enterprises. As a result of the drug reform, regional health firms have been given responsibility for multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug users. However, municipal responsibility for drug abuse interventions as a result of the social services law has not changed as a result of the drug reform. Municipalities continue to have overall responsibility, as demonstrated by the Social Services Act. The Fredheim Foundation is an institution that is not subject to the drug reform. The company has not had an operating or purchasing agreement with any county municipality, nor has it participated at any county level. The extracts from the free municipal income are only related to self-payment for residence at county institutions or private institutions with which the county municipalities have agreed. Municipalities that have used the Fredheim Foundation for the purchase of services are assumed to have done so in order to discharge their municipal responsibility for social services and care measures for drug users. If, as a result of the drug reform, resident municipalities claim that they no longer have the finances to pay for stays at the Fredheim Foundation and other institutions not affected by the drug reform, this is not a direct consequence of the drug reform. The Russian reform suggests that municipal responsibility for overall follow-up and responses to drug users does not change, but continues. I expect the municipalities to discharge their responsibilities under the law. As a useful tool in particular to care for drug users with long-term and complex needs, the drug reform introduces a legal right to individual levels, precisely to ensure a comprehensive range of services, to be developed through cooperation between levels and involving the individual user. The municipalities are a central player and contributor to the achievement of the objectives of drug reform on a more comprehensive and reinforced treatment provision for drug users.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1034	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for his answer. Some of the views expressed here by the Minister of Health in relation to Rusreform II, I share and am aware of. But I think there's a lot of uncertainty about how this new drug reform will work. We had a feeling during the discussion of the matter that this could be a reform that made A and B clients. And I imagine here we're dealing with some B-clients: it's the elderly, tired, chronic drug addicts who need a living and living that's based on their protection against drug abuse, a home where it's 24-hour and follow-up. The municipalities are unable to establish this around them. We have large urban municipalities that also have problems getting there, including: in Hedmark. I want to ask the Minister of Health: is it such that here we need a one-and-a-half-line service that means that we don't get this caste ball function and many human tragedies besides being a drug addict, by not being able to live in a housing facility?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1041	Let me first establish that the Stortinget was quite close to Christmas and adopted the drug reform, and that it is my job to carry it out now. We are a little over a month into that year the drug reform has begun to work, and it is of course too early to draw conclusions on how it will work. But I fully agree with the representative, Lutvold, that not least the fact that the decision came so late in its implementation, makes it very exciting as to how it will work. It suggests that we have to follow developments closely. I don't think we're going to start discussing changes in the reform adopted by Stortinget. However, the intention expressed by the representative, Mr Glötvold, should be respected. The fact that there will be an overall offer, a more coherent chain, is one of the main intentions of the reform. I pointed out that the use of individual plans is an important tool in coordinating action against individual users.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1046	Yeah, we're probably pretty much in agreement on the last one, the Health Minister and I. But I think we have to expect the state, which is now responsible for the health issue, to take an initiative. The state is also responsible for the financial framework of the municipalities, and many municipalities have at least the feeling that much of the drug protection now, in terms of budget and economics, has been brought from the municipalities to the state, and the municipalities do not have the resource for them, among other things. to purchase services such as those of the Fredheim Foundation. This causes some to fall outside, and we know that, among other things. clients at this institution were moved out before Christmas. Three of them were moved out in the harvest, and two of them are already dead, because they were unable to live alone and manage themselves, and have been drinking in their hearts. It has been black on white in the local press. I therefore hope that the Minister of Health can take an initiative and engage in dialogue with the municipalities, firstly to clean up the economy here and how it will be used, and also to see if it is possible to establish something that is close to a one-and-a-half-line service for those who need a home and a lasting offer of life out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1051	Let me again stress that the local authorities' responsibilities under the social services law are established. It is not that the drug reform adopted by Stortinget has weakened the financial capacity of municipalities to purchase services of the kind of institutions that Fredheim represents. These are institutions which are not subject to the reform and for which no funds have been drawn from the local government budgets to transfer to the enterprises. So it's in this context to set up the smith to blame for the reform. But when that is said, it is with the starting point and the responsibility of the municipalities, a task both for the municipalities and for health companies, which now have special responsibility, to provide a coherent and coherent treatment chain, both in the structure and in the direction of the individual user.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1059	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘The consumption of electricity decreased sharply in 2003 compared with the previous year. It might be interesting to look at what's causing the decline in consumption, and not least it might be interesting to get along with the consequences. Possible explanations may be that high electricity prices have shifted consumption to other, more polluting, energy sources. What alternative energy sources have been the consequence of the high electricity prices in 2003 and what impact does this have on pollutant emissions?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1068	An important contribution to the security of supply of the Nordic energy system is the adaptations that consumers and producers make when market conditions so warrant. In 2003, such adjustments led, according to the NVE, to a reduction in the use of electricity of a size of 6 TWh compared to 2002. About half of this can be explained by the fact that temperatures on average were higher than in the previous year. The high prices of electricity in large parts of 2003 led to a particularly strong focus on electricity consumption. Many therefore chose to apply other heating options where possible, in order to limit total heating costs. The 2003 sales figures indicate that oil in particular replaced electricity. Unfortunately, the figures are still very uncertain, while the sales figures for oil products are relatively good. Compared to the previous year, the use of fuel oil and fuel kerosene increased by about 2 TWh in 2003. The increase in oil sales may have contributed to increased CO2 emissions and NOx emissions of the order of 750000 tonnes and 600 tonnes. In addition, the increase in prices led to an increase in the production of power from power producers who rely on higher prices than normal to have profitable output. In the short term, when hydropower generation fails, it will not be possible to replace it with equivalent environmentally friendly power generation. It is therefore to be expected that emissions of CO2 and NOx from power generation in neighbouring countries have increased in 2003, compared with 2002. I have now mentioned the short-term effect of last year's special situation on the power market. The longer-term effects are of greater interest. At the time of the most strenuous power situation, the authorities implemented measures aimed at contributing to energy conversion in the short and long term. Both through a dedicated information campaign and an immediate response mechanism, investment in new equipment appears to be emerging. This is particularly true for heat pump technology, where more than 30000 heat pumps were installed in 2003. There is a substantial increase from the level in 2002, where it was installed approximately. 20,000 heat pumps, which until then were a top year. The price of heat pumps has also fallen significantly. The development is also positive for pellet stoves and management systems, which were part of eligible technologies. In addition, Enova has been allocated increased financial resources to support projects in the field of new renewable energy production and energy saving. Together with other measures for an environmentally friendly conversion of energy production and use, it will help to strengthen security of supply and reduce environmental impacts from energy production and use.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1081	My question was about the consequences of what happened last year in relation to polluting emissions. I'm a little disappointed, because there was really nothing new. I had at least expectations that we could have got the information you've seen in the media, also given by the Council of State, where it turns out that last year the Nordics doubled their CO2 emissions. I understand that the Council of State has difficulty talking about the consequences of its own energy policy. However, I believe that there is a double standard of environmental policy in accepting such emissions at the same time that one does not propose to do anything in relation to the power situation in the longer term. The NVE has therefore said that in 2010 we can lack more than 40 TWh of electricity in Norway, which will mean that CO2 emissions will then increase radically compared to last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1088	I believe that after the year 2003, morals must be that one does more to produce environmentally friendly technology. I am pleased that the Workers' Party supported the Government's proposal to increase the allocation to Enova, which makes it possible to generate new renewable energy, whether it be windmills, waterborne heat or other types of environmentally friendly energy. It's also true, as the representative refers to, that if nothing is done, we're going to get into an even worse situation. We will in no way underestimate the challenges now ahead of us, namely being adequately equipped with environmentally friendly energy, so that we do not have conditions similar to those we experienced in winter 2002/2003. That's where it's important to get started. I have presented a security of supply message, with a number of actions in several points, a ten-point list, to address this situation in an offensive manner. I hope that the Storting will be able to join those measures on a broad basis, so that we can build the security of supply that enables us to deliver enough power to both private households, industry and government at an acceptable price.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1095	I would like to thank the response and the willingness that the Council of State seems to have to be involved in negotiations and compromises in the Stortinget, to ensure that in the future we will have an energy balance both in terms of prices for the electricity customers who are acceptable and also in terms of securing Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs. Norway is, in the western European context, energy nation number one. We have resources that, both in the short term and in the long term, will lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions, which is a global source of pollution, and it is therefore so important now to facilitate the effective use of these resources by Norway. The working party is also of the opinion that the sooner we can start developing technology in relation to CO2 management, the better it is. But we don't think we're doing it on the drawing board, we think we have to start building gas power plants in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1104	I have to agree with much of what the representative Klungland now said. But with regard to his belief in the creation of gas power plants with CO2 technology, it is my ambition and the Government's ambition that we should contribute to the generation of this technology, if possible earlier than the so-called Gas Technology Committee has foreseen. We want, through international cooperation and also by drawing on the significant research environments we have in our own country, to contribute to the deployment of this technology, so that the use of gas in an environmentally friendly way can also be part of the strategy for better security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1116	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘It has over time been determined whether CO2 can be injected into the Gulfak field to increase oil production in the field. A CO2 injection would probably provide a higher degree of recovery than water injection. Statoil has provisionally chosen to proceed with water injection. CO2 injection into Gulfaks would provide Norwegian industry with significant experience and competence in CO2 management and would contribute to significantly reduced CO2 emissions. How does the State Council feel that the CO2 management project can now be jeopardized?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1125	I would first like to say that Statoil and the partners in the Gullfak field have not scrapped this project for the injection of CO2 for increased oil extraction. Statoil is currently evaluating two methods of increased extraction from the Gulfak field: water injection and water and CO2 injection. The water injection project will provide lower extraction rates from the Gulfak field than a project with both water and CO2 injection. At the same time, the costs of water injection are significantly lower than the costs of water and CO2 injection. Statoil and the partners in the Gullfaks field today consider water injection to be profitable and have decided to continue this project. However, Statoil continues to consider injecting water and large amounts of clean CO2 into the Gulfak field to increase oil extraction. CO2 injection will increase the extraction rate, but it is uncertain how much more oil injection of CO2 will provide. Therefore, the Gulfak area rightholders will continue to work in the spring of 2004 to ensure the quality of these calculations. Injecting CO2 for increased extraction in the Gulfak field will require significant investments on the Gulfak platforms, in CO2 transport infrastructure to Gulfaks and in CO2 capture installations. Statoil has assessed deliveries of CO2 from sources in Norway and internationally, inter alia: pure CO2 from Snow White and Danish coal power plants has been evaluated. A challenge is paradoxically enough to find sources that can deliver large enough amounts of pure CO2. I think CO2 injection for increased oil extraction in the Gulfaks field is a very interesting project with a good environmental profile. It is therefore important that the rightholders carry out thorough work before a decision is taken in the project. There are aspects of this project in addition to the purely business economy. Both environmental and resource considerations would be interesting if the project were realised. The Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Directorate of Oil are now looking at precisely these aspects of the project. I will therefore follow this matter with great attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1140	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It seems like the Council of State and we in the Labour Party agree that it would have been an advantage if we could have carried out this project, with all the benefits it has for the environment, as the Council of State said, and I would also say for technological development in the future, also in relation to jobs. That's why it's important to try to realize it. I am glad that the council says he will follow the matter closely. My question will then be: if there is a need for government agencies to do something, as we have done in some other projects that have not been economically profitable here and now, but which could perhaps be socio-economically profitable, will the Council of State be prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1149	I am pleased that this project has such a great interest in Stortinget. As Sylvia Brustad said, this also has interesting perspectives in itself based on purely technological considerations. So it's a application of technology that can have a wider application both on our own base and internationally. I think we're going to do this in the right order. Licensors have agreed that they will continue the water injection project without anyone wanting to put aside a project where they have both water injection and CO2 injection. Of course, there's tension about how this comes out purely economically. I hope for my part for a positive result. I hope that the companies also look at the pages that Sylvia Brustad has taken up, namely the technological aspects, and that you also look at what is not necessarily related to the bottom line in the accounts, but that has to do with strategic issues. Should this not succeed, I would of course be interested in a dialogue with the companies on further progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1160	I thank you again for the answer. In fact, I interpret the answer to the question that the Council of State is prepared to go in here too – it must be with changes in framework conditions or economic incentives that enable this to be realised. If my interpretation is right, I'm very pleased with it, because I think that as a society we have a lot to do in trying out such a project, also in view of the great challenges we have in the future in the environment. If that way you can get more oil out, it'll be a win-win situation. If my interpretation, as I said, is correct, I am pleased that the Council of State seems to want to prepare for this project if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1169	It is difficult to address these issues more specifically, as the circumstances of the framework conditions or other economic aspects of the case have not yet been notified to the authorities. But what I warn you is an interest in following up this project. Should there be signals from the companies that the involvement of the authorities will be necessary for the project to be realised, I am interested in a dialogue with the companies about this, but it will of course depend on the extent to which such support will have to be provided and the way in which it must be provided. Dialogue is important in this. Sylvia Brustad has every reason to believe me right when I say that I will be very interested in the conclusions that the companies, the licensees and the operator will reach, and if the authorities' contributions are necessary, I will also be interested in having a dialogue on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1184	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1190	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘According to the Newspaper on 26 January, Skagerak Energia wishes to apply for a concession for the construction of a ‘pure’ gas power plant in the border region. The following day, the newspaper states that the Council of State ‘can’t guarantee that the government will cover the extra costs that a CO2-free gas power plant will have in relation to a conventional power plant’. What other incentives does the Council of State see being used against potential gas power plant builders in order to start the construction of CO2-free gas power plants if the additional costs are not met?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1199	In the Gas Communication, the Government drew up a policy to facilitate gas power plants with CO2 management. The main points of this strategy are: State aid for technology and product development. Support is given to the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy for research and development projects. The Government will facilitate an investment aid scheme for full scale gas power plants with CO2 management from 2006. The government will establish a state-owned innovation company for environmentally friendly gas technology in Grenland. The Government aims at comprehensive investigations of State participation in the development and operation of CO2 infrastructure and at facilitating the use of CO2 for pressure support, possibly landfilling. As a follow-up to the Gas Communication and the decisions taken during its examination, I will come back to the Spring 2004 Stortinget with a plan to set up an innovation company in Grenland. The company should include, inter alia: be entrusted with the management of the country’s gas power plant investment with CO2 management and will be established by the end of 2004. The Government will establish, as soon as possible, a support scheme for the construction of pilot plants for gas power plants with CO2 management and aims to promote a case to this effect in the context of the revised national budget 2004. At the same time, detailed assessments shall be made of the concrete design of support schemes for gas power technologies with CO2 management. In particular, the design of the aid schemes needs to be assessed in relation to the relevant international legislation on which Norway is bound. I also see it as natural that the innovation company, which will have special competence in this area, is involved in assessing and designing mechanisms that can provide the best possible incentives to trigger both research, testing and the use of such technologies. There are several interesting initiatives in Norway to bring new technologies from the research stage to practical testing. That announced the project from Skagerak Energia is an example of this. Of course, because there are several current projects in this area, it is important for me to be able to assess the projects in context and give priority to what both technologically and economically presents itself as the most interesting and most competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1223	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought was very defensive. I think this government is acting in a strange way in such cases, and I'm going to give some examples. The government says it's dependent on increased power generation, while at the same time it's almost everything that will increase significantly. The government also says it's for increased use of gas, while it went to the Socialist Left Party to stop all developments in this area. Last but not least, it says it is for gas power plants, at least with CO2 management, but we see little initiative from the Government to get this done. Will the Council of State give me a simple explanation of how this is linked? And will the Council of State look well at any new gas power plant concessions where you have CO2 management?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1232	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal is on the Energy and Environment Committee. He does not always agree with the majority in Stortinget on how to deal with these matters. But as the Council of State, I have to deal with what is the majority decision. I have been asked during the spring to submit to the Stortinget assessments on how to possibly bring a natural gas pipeline to Grenland. I want to relate to that. I have also been asked by Stortinget to present a separate action plan on how to finance pilot projects. I have also said, with the support of Stortinget, that we will bet on gas power plants with CO2 management. All these conditions I understand that Øyvind Vaksdal does not agree. But he can't come here and say that I'm not doing anything, when I've submitted a gas message with an offensive strategy for this, and in addition, I announced that in the spring of 2004, I will come up with concrete measures to implement that strategy. The fact that the Progress Party does not agree that we should have a gas power plant with CO2 handling is nothing new. But these constant accusations that the Council of State does not follow up are both premature and not consistent with what I actually do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1241	I once again thank the Council of State for the answer, where he referred to the decision of the Stortingen from last year. I will then refer to the Stortinget decision taken on 9 March 2000 that Norwegian gas power stations should be subject to the same framework conditions as others in the EEA area. I assume, of course, that the Council of State is doing its utmost to ensure that the decision of the Storting is followed. In my view, when the Norwegian authorities impose much stricter emission requirements than in some other countries in this area, it should be obvious that the authorities cover the additional costs. Does the Council agree with me on this, and what will he do specifically to follow this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1248	This Council of States follows on to the point of punctuating all the decisions of the Grand Duchy that were taken in 2001. Progress, actions, initiatives are fully in line with the Storting decision – of course. So that the Progress Party does not agree with this is not something new. But I assume that even those representatives who are being voted down and who do not then get a majority of their opinions will have respect and understanding that the Government and the Council of State cannot follow any strategy other than that which the Storting is always supporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1257	I have this question for the Minister of Education and Research: «According to the Council of Culture Schools, having children in cultural schools has now become significantly more expensive in many municipalities. As a result, some parents will not be able to afford to send their children to the cultural school. There is reason to believe that this will affect children with a minority background. A development with more expensive places and still long queues undermines the idea that the cultural school should be an offer to all, including minority children. It will mean different access to cultural competence. What will the Council of State do to prevent such development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1266	In the questionnaire last Wednesday, I informed about a study conducted by the Norwegian School of Culture Council and the County of Southern Trondelag. This showed that of the 386 municipalities participating in the survey, 180 increased parental pay by an average of 17 pst. in 2004. It may also be stated that the parental payment rate, which until 1 January 2004 was not more than NOK 1600 per year. has not been adjusted since 1993. NOK 1 600 in 1993 is NOK 2 093 in 2004. As is known, the earmarked grant for the municipal music and cultural schools was transferred to the income system only from 1 January 2004. It is therefore premature to say something about this transfer of responsibility to the municipalities has led to changes in participation in the music and cultural schools. However, increased parental pay could contribute to increased capacity and shorter queues in municipal music and cultural schools, which have actually taken place in about 80 pst. of the 20 experimental municipalities where the grant became part of the framework in 2000. However, it is premature to say something about the effect of any increase in parental pay on the provision of music and cultural education in the other municipalities. I am generally of the opinion that the municipalities, as a principle, are best able to allocate the resources and determine the amount of the user payment for the various offers, among others. the payment of parents in the municipal music and cultural schools. I've got per. There is currently no indication that a system of framework financing and greater freedom for municipalities to design the offer ‘frames children with a minority background’. On this basis, I also have no plans to reintroduce price caps or designation of the allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1279	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that she repeats some of the answers to Trond Giske from the previous question hour. I just want to say that in 1993 the average payment was less than NOK 1000, so since then there has been a significant price increase. There may be a lot of evidence that the payment is already too high, and that many are concerned that even more people will not be able to afford it when the roof is raised. And I would also like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that the municipalities can report that the tone is now a closure rather than an increase in capacity. I realize that some of the problem here is that the state has not taken its share of responsibility until the grant was put into the framework. This means that the hourly allowance has been at rest for many years, while the municipalities and their parents have taken their share of the split layer. I would like to ask the Council of State: what will she do to enable the state to take its share of responsibility, and not just push everything over to municipalities and parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1290	17 pst., which is the average price increase in 2004 among the municipalities surveyed, is less than the general price increase since 1993. And since then there has been a price cap that you have not been able to adjust the prices in relation to. I also believe that setting such a ceiling on the part of the State makes it more difficult for municipalities to design offers that are locally adapted to the needs they have. They know we're very different, because the demand for music and culture schools is very different around the country. It has also created capacity problems. Participation in music and culture schools has increased despite warning of the opposite. Personally, I must say that when you look at private consumption for leisure time and other things in our time, I do not think that a price of 1500 kroner – 2000 kroner per year is a very high price. In terms of art and culture at school, and in terms of music schools, I would like to refer to a message we have submitted on, among others. the cultural schools, which are currently being treated in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1301	I thank you again for the answer. I want to draw attention to the minority children, because they belong to families that are among the poorest. It may be that both the Council of State and I can afford to send children and grandchildren to the cultural schools, but the poorest will definitely not afford it. It also shows differences in offers in urban areas in Bergen where there are rich parents, versus where there are poor parents. But again to the minority children. It is a fact that we find few minority children in the cultural schools today. There may be a lot of reasons for that – price can be one. Furthermore, it is a fact that only a few cultural schools have offers that meet minority children. The explanation might be that we all need to start with the familiar things, that is, with the cultural expressions we know, and then move on. I want to challenge the Council of State whether she sees the need for development projects that can stimulate multicultural meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1312	The minority language is not poor by definition, but it's clear that some are poorer than others. Municipalities are free to have special arrangements for that. When we in the state do not determine the price for the municipalities, the municipalities determine the price. There may also be variations in the price, of course. I can agree that there may be a need to develop offers in many places, perhaps especially in relation to the perspective of the representative Valle here. In the message I referred to, some measures are outlined to develop in the music and cultural schools. I think the multicultural perspective is a good example that development should also take place locally. Because here you can imagine that there are completely different needs in Oslo than there will be, for example. other places in the country, where the element of minority language pupils is much smaller. With regard to the situation of minority speakers in Norwegian school in general, I would like to refer to a comprehensive plan we have recently put forward to strengthen the integration, performance, progress and recruitment of minority speakers – including in the cultural fields, which is a very important area simply because it turns out that there are systematic differences in their disfavor that do not stem from their abilities and talents.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1326	The question is as follows: ‘There is also a debate in Norway on the use of skates, hijab, in working life and in school by Muslims. In the school area, the use of skates must be seen in conjunction with the need for better integration. Both through provisions of the Training Act, such as: deals with the working environment of pupils and, through regulations on rules of procedure, which all municipalities are required to provide to each school, the use of prominent and clear symbols by pupils can be regulated. What action will the Council of State, responsible for schools, take in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1335	The Education Act regulates matters in primary and secondary education. The law does not provide for rules governing the dress of students when they are at school, but provides for rules of procedure. Such regulations shall be laid down by the school owners and the schools themselves and shall, inter alia, include: contain rules on behaviour and measures to be taken in the event of a breach of the rules. Skaut or hijab can be viewed as both a garment and a religious symbol. It has not been common to regulate any of the parts in Norwegian school. Norwegian school does not impose any specific requirements on students about dress up. We do not use school uniforms, but assume that the dress of the students is appropriate and sound in relation to the learning situation, i.e. that it must not hinder the schools in their learning assignments and thereby deprive them of their right to training or pose a health and safety risk to pupils and teachers. The Ministry has no evidence that the use of skates or hijab is such a problem for training in schools in Norway. If problems with skates or other clothing occur in some cases, I would recommend that the schools themselves try to solve this in a dialogue with the parties involved and/or through the school regulations. But Skaut or hijab is also a religious symbol, which raises other and more fundamental questions related to religious freedom. In principle, I think that is very important in order to consider imposing restrictions on the right of people to practice their own religion. As I see it, there are no such strong reasons in Norway now, and I therefore have no plans to change legislation, for example. to prohibit the use of skates. In this respect, I recall that the ongoing debate on the use of ice skates in school is largely the result of a French debate. However, French school has quite different traditions and current problems than Norwegian school has. French school, like the French state, is secular, and the consequence, therefore, is that all religious symbols should now be banned, if necessary, not just skated. In my opinion, there is also much to suggest that France has far greater problems of integration in its schools than Norway has. Moreover, those who wish to ban skating in Norwegian schools should also consider how the French ban can be implemented in practice. I am, of course, aware that the debate on skates also contains other facets, such as. equality, forced use of skates, etc. This is a difficult area, which, incidentally, also has the transfer value to our home clothes codes, and which I think the municipal minister has handled in a good way, precisely by appealing to an open and nuanced debate. This does not mean that a multicultural and multi-religious society is free of challenges and potential problems. The Government will present a major communication to address the challenges of multicultural Norwegian society. The report will assume that Norway has a complex population with different backgrounds, ethnic origins, religion, culture, language and way of life, and that this is both desirable and natural. The notification shall be a declaration of value in the sense that it shall discuss concrete issues relating to majority and minority issues and between minorities in different areas such as working life, housing, education, health, etc. In this context, the use of religious symbols in schools could also be a topic. If we are to succeed in including different minorities in Norwegian school, we must meet them with respect for their way of life, tradition and religion. That doesn't mean that we, who make up the majority, need to agree with all the choices they make, but that we respect their right to make choices other than those we would make, including for their children. There may be grounds for recalling that there are ‘Norwegian’ minorities who also choose a way of life and an attraction that is far from what the majority of the population is doing. We have e.g. a living Catholic monastery tradition here in the country. I consider such diversity as a enrichment, and consider it to be excluded that we should introduce rules that made it impossible for a nun, regardless of the headgear, to work in school. I also point out that the Ministry of Education and Research has recently presented a strategy plan to strengthen the performance, progression and recruitment of minority speakers in Norwegian school, to which I also referred in my previous reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1361	It was nice to get a supplementary answer. I thank you for that. There is reason to stress that those who come to Norway and settle here must also show respect for Norway, the country of which they are seeking to become residents. There is also reason to stress that, from the point of view of the Advancement Party – that is a view that many other parts too – we are talking about a political uniformation rather than expressing a particular religious conviction. In our opinion, the use of skates highlights, underscores and maintains considerable differences between student groups. The government and the state council have recently presented a strategy plan, with which I stand and wave in my hand here, for better training and greater participation of language minorities in school and education. Does the Council of State really believe that the use of skates by Muslims in school promotes integration into Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1370	I don't have any evidence to claim that it works against integration. I can see that there may be cases, and I will not rule out the fact that in France you are facing current problems and a current tradition and history and principles that make it more topical to discuss this there than I think it is currently in Norway. If I were to look back at the signals I have received about problems related to clothing in Norwegian school, most of the messages I have received are probably related to completely different types of clothing, and which we associate with Norwegian dress codes and expressions. I do not think we in Norway by considering banning this in Norway now, actually solving a current problem, but that it will be more a reflection of a debate going on in another country. The purpose of integration is not equality. We believe that to get a good school, it must be a diversity school, where there is respect for different expressions. I would like to remind you of the evaluation of Reform 97, which points out as a main problem that Norwegian school is not really enough to deal with diversity, diversity and minorities, but too much is directed towards an average that does not exist. It will be even more real in the future than it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1379	France may have a different and more obvious and pressing problem than what we find in Norway. But the problem is here, and it is now. The same strategy plan for better integration and participation of linguistic minorities identifies many measures to improve the learning environment and value base, to create social inclusion, and at the same time underlines cooperation with the family and parents. Does the Council of State believe that Muslim parents who require their own children to use skates in Norwegian school – what I and my party would call political uniformation – give credible signals that they want the most integration possible for their children in Norwegian society and in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1386	I cannot rule out that there are parents who force their children to do this against their will. This is part of the debate we have now. But we don't know if it applies to everyone. It's not like you per. definition does not want integration even if such a religious symbol or expression is used. But I want to make it clear: to the extent that dress suits, whether religious symbols or not, interfere with the school's learning assignments and thus deprive students of the right to training, the school has an opportunity – even an obligation – to respond. I can mention as an example that it has happened in some schools in Sweden because in one specific situation it was disruptive to the learning assignment. This did not apply to rollers, but to blurs, which made it difficult to carry out the communication necessary for proper training.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1397	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘There has been an increase in unemployment among workers in the fishing industry in recent years, without substantial involvement of the administrative authorities. For too long, policy has been governed by interests and by people without adequate knowledge of the specificity of the fishing industry and the problems of the fishing industry and communities. The last example of this is the proposal to remove the system of taxes on products. What is the intention of the Council of State to do to improve the situation of the fishing industry and communities in Finnmark?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1406	First of all, it is not right that the government has not engaged in these issues – we have done it for good. The fishing industry has been struggling with low quotas over several years, major challenges in terms of market barriers, particularly in the EU, low cost-effective operations, high interest rates and high dollar rates, as well as overcapacity both on land and sea. The reason for the high unemployment rate in the fishing industry in Finnmark and other counties is complex and very often of an international nature. The fishing industry has gradually become more global. Foreign buyers compete for fish with local enterprises, and further processing takes place abroad. In addition, the landing of cod from Russian vessels has recently fallen dramatically. Developments are pushing forward the need for changes in the policy-created framework conditions, as well as adaptations and industrial transformations. The government has met these challenges with a tight economic policy. Interest rates have fallen, and a debt-reduced fishing industry has benefited from this. The Crown Course has also been greatly reduced thanks to government policy choices, which benefit an export-dependent fishing industry. After two years, the Government may indicate that economic policy has contributed to significantly improved framework conditions for the fishing industry. Then the fishing industry also expresses an emerging optimism for 2004. At the same time, we can rejoice that there are examples of companies that have positive results and that have invested in cost-effective technology and operation – that is, not everything is completely black. The Government may also indicate that the structural and operational arrangements for the coastal fleet adopted last year appear to be functioning in the manner intended, which over time will improve the profitability of the coastal fleet. New ways of regulating fishing through vessel quotas provide improved conditions for the fishing industry in Finnmark and allow fishermen to obtain a higher price for the fish. The tightening of the delivery obligations for the trawler fleet is another means of ensuring that the raw material is delivered to the processing industry. A significant contribution to cost-effective operation will be better raw material listening to industry throughout the year. Only in this way can industry supply the market with quality products 364 days a year. In Iceland, for example, the filet industry with three shifts in order to achieve profitable operation and meet competition from low-cost countries, while the Norwegian fillet industry uses on average less than six hours per engine park. 24 hours. I believe that the new regulations on fishing, and preferably long-term supply agreements between industry and fishermen, should provide more continuous operation, thus improving profitability and improving the survival of the vessels and businesses. However, we do not avoid the industry facing both capacity challenges and structural challenges. But at the same time, it will be of great help in the future that the cod quota has increased this year. The royal crab also makes a significant financial contribution, especially in eastern Finland. Research and innovation are priority instruments for the Government. For example, Innovation Norway and the Norwegian Research Council are important tools for the renewal of the marine sector. The fishing industry is undoubtedly facing major challenges. That is why I set up a working group to propose, by 15 June at the latest, improvements to the public framework conditions that can contribute to an improvement in the profitability, competitiveness and value creation of the fishing industry. So my approach is that we need a stronger industrial perspective and a stronger industrial focus in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1434	It is possible that the government has done a lot. The 800 unemployed probably also think so, and the 20 companies that have gone bankrupt in the last year probably also agree that the government has done a lot. It's true that the high interest rate and the high interest rate have fallen, but it's too small and too late. When the bankruptcy is a fact, it does not benefit with high or low interest rates and low interest rates – then you are bankrupt. When you talk about profit, it's nice to think about talking about ear. A 50 can be a lot, and when it's $7 a kilo, for example. after the bankruptcy, it is formidable. But they went bankrupt because of high dollar rates and high interest rates. The decline here was too late, and it was too small. The question is: is there any policy in this area or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1445	I have tried to draw up a number of measures that have been taken to improve the future framework conditions for the fishing industry and which will undoubtedly lead to better operation. Therefore, the industry itself expresses increasing optimism and satisfaction at the fact that the Government and the Storting have taken decisions that will improve this. But if you just get lost in the past, we can't solve anything. In fact, I think that both in government and in industry, we should be able to think about what is best in a district policy context, and develop a policy that makes us get profitable industrial businesses and profitable industrial structures instead of going from crisis to crisis, as this industry has done for too long, because we have had the wrong focus. Profitable businesses and ships provide safe jobs and viable coastal communities, while unprofitable businesses only provide lasting trauma. The policy we are now pursuing will provide sustainable and profitable jobs, but we cannot help but see that the industry faces structural problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1450	I have a question. Fishing vessel operating arrangements have been applied to three counties, as a sampling scheme. Does the Minister for Fisheries not understand that there is a distortion of competition when that testing scheme does not apply to all? After all, vessels are purchased from sample-fills of the counties that are not included. I come from Northernland myself, which is not included, and there are many other states that are not included. Does the Minister for Fisheries not understand that this is a distortion of competition and is extremely unfortunate for those affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1457	Firstly, I understand very well – I come from a fishing company myself – the problems you face when you are hit by bankruptcy, which is what many of the fishing forces in Finnmark and along the coast are facing. I have a great deal of understanding for that. That is why I am also promoting a policy to counteract future unfortunate developments. As far as the operating arrangements are concerned, I must say that I am a little surprised that the representative Bastisen asks me about this, because the operating arrangements would be implemented throughout the country. There was strong opposition to it, so I suggested to Stortinget that we try it in Finnmark, because Finnmark wanted it, and they've got it. So opened the Stortinget so that we could try it in several states, but not throughout the country. Then I also offered it to Troms and Sogn and Fjordane, and we got a better basis for judging it. Now you also come to the Stortinget and want me to introduce it to the whole country. If you had listened to my recommendation, this would already have been the policy of all states. But Stortinget hasn't allowed me to, sir. President!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1467	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: «The small and medium-sized companies in the salmon and trout farming sector clearly have the economic problems of overproduction and high interest rates and crown prices far better than the largest companies. The largest lay down slaughterhouse and processing plants and centralise the administration to a greater extent than the smaller ones. How will the Council of State influence the experience of recent years in the field of aquaculture policy in such a way that the structure of companies, ownership and production regulation contribute better to many, safe and profitable coastal jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1476	I am of the opinion that in terms of farming, as well as the whitefish sector, there is a varied size and structure that best meets market demand. However, in order to maintain and create many, safe and profitable jobs, it is necessary to have a framework that is both predictable for economic operators and which, at the same time, creates flexibility for industry in order to adapt to the market in the best possible way. And that market is constantly changing. Breeding is and becomes an export industry, with more than 90 pst. the output is exported. We are now producing more salmon than the amount of cod caught together by Norway and Russia. It is therefore very important to review the changes that are taking place at all times in the market for farmed products and the increasing production that is both in Norway and in other countries. Keywords in this context are increasingly demanding customers who require price, delivery security, food security, etc. The salmon industry in Norway is also becoming, to a greater extent, a knowledge-based industry, depending on the continued international presence of actors in research and innovation at all stages of the value chain. There are, to a large extent, major actors who have had the ability and ability to invest and who also have the ability and ability to generate profits into new species in the future. But that's where the small and the big have to have the same conditions. Major players, in my view, will have more than a small opportunity to invest in several stages of the value chain and thus ensure that a greater share of the return will be in Norway. Unfortunately, too much of the yield in the marine sector remains in other countries, not least in the EU. It would therefore be appropriate to allow a certain concentration in the industry, while maintaining diversity through smaller companies. For the past 10 years, the fisheries authorities have provided for a varied structure of business and ownership in the industry so that they can best meet competition internationally. The government has no plans to change that. Furthermore, I have paid particular attention to making a clearer distinction between what I call shop and politics. It therefore appears natural to leave it up to the individual economic operator to carry out economic assessments that enable companies to meet competition and find a structure and strategy to meet market challenges and provide business profitability. The marine industry is highly competitive and if it is to survive, the cost level has to be reduced. I have repeatedly argued that good business policy is good district policy, and unprofitable jobs only create trauma in the districts. My main focus in this context is to ensure that we have measures that are cost-reducing for industry. It is important to facilitate simplification and to ensure that management is service-oriented, so that the level of costs can be reduced. Therefore, I have no plans to introduce new measures that will damage value creation, damage profitability and lead to further relocation of jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1495	The council says he's busy getting profitable companies, the unprofitable create only trauma. I am also concerned that we are now learning from the experience we have had in recent years. Nils Williksen from Vikna became this year's salmon exporter. He said to the Address Paper: "Show me a remote-controlled farm that operates properly. They do not exist!’ The local cluster of small companies at Vikna is doing well despite the problems that it has been with the krone price and with overproduction. Despite these losses, the companies operate well. The question then is: shall not a person try to stimulate the type of enterprise rather than those who, in the opinion of the Council of State, create 'only traumas in the districts', in local communities where there is now a real need to stimulate the optimism that exists? I think this is an industry that really has the future to do, but a different policy is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1502	I stress that it is both large and small companies, the varied structure, that can best meet the challenges in the market. Unfortunately, there are many examples that even small producers have gone beyond the end, so it is not clear that all small ones are without problems and all big ones have problems. And these are complex causes, not least overinvestment at the end of the 1990s has led to major problems now. We also see that integration in terms of production, slaughter and further processing is a challenge, and we see that small producers from time to time choose to join together in larger structures. But it's a varied structure that can best do this. There's no fasit that says "big" is the only thing, or "small" is the only thing. I have to remind you that we are going to operate on an international market, and for that, muscles are needed, not least in terms of product development and market work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1510	The unique experience is that the largest companies are loss projects. They've been, they've lost jobs, and they've lost many, many billion dollars. Some companies, of medium-sized enterprises, even increase processing. Salmar, for example, is up to 65 pst. processing. More capital is needed in the industry, and funds are needed to develop smarter processing. Because I think we're good at processing more, and there's a lot of people who believe it. But then it is necessary for the state to help with both the capital needed and the means of conversion. In my opinion, support from the state must go to those who have now shown that they really have the right to life, those who have positive ringing effects along our coast. I think the experience that has now been gained suggests that we in the Grand Duchy should have a fresh discussion of aquaculture policy, based on the experience that has been gained over the last three to four years, along with what has been done in the past, while looking forward to the opportunities that are. Is the Council of State also interested in having such a debate in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1517	First, I think it's important to hold on to the fact that it's profitable in each company that can best generate capital, and that's what best helps you have a competition that develops the companies. My policy is that we should create profitability and create robust businesses whether they are small or large. Thinking that the state should be able to make the industry profitable by itself, I think it is a misguided policy, but I feel that the policy that the Government is now pursuing has a general broad commitment and increasing support in the farming industry, and I am pleased with that. In the case of a possible evaluation in Stortinget, I am aware that Stortinget has a Document No. Eight proposals for treatment, which I understand, may result in the Ministry of Fisheries providing a key message and highlighting various trends, development scenarios and policy issues during this year. I will, of course, deliver that if the Storting will, and I perceive that they are about to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1524	Question 17 has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1530	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In December 2002, it was decided to carry out a test scheme in which six airports received a 90 pst. reduction of the initial charge for international routes. In Møre and Romesdal, Kvernberget and Årø are covered by the scheme, while Vigra is not included, despite the fact that an airline has indicated that they will start flights from Vigra if this airport also receives this reduction in charges. Will the Council of State help Vigra Airport also get a 90 pst. reduction in the initial charge for international traffic?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1539	The airports selected to participate in a test scheme from 1 January 2003 had almost no international traffic at that time and had no capacity available. The sample was made to create new traffic and revenues without a significant risk of reduced total revenues as a result of the fact that the discount scheme also had to cover existing traffic. The Ministry has placed a significant emphasis on the transparency and non-discrimination of the discount scheme so that all airlines have the same opportunity to make use of it. In the selection of airports, it was also considered that a discount on the start-up charge was necessary in order to increase the volume of traffic. When the scheme was adopted, it was a prerequisite that it was a probationary system that was to be evaluated after a period of time. However, with the limited experience we have with the scheme so far, it is in my view necessary to allow the testing scheme to work in any case until 2005 before it is possible to draw clear conclusions. For the sake of order, I mention that every company that establishes a new route from Avinor's airports today has a derogation from the initial fee for two years. It is only after this two-year period has elapsed that the 90 p.m. discount has an independent meaning. For the same reason, it's per. today no companies that formally benefit from the 90 pst scheme. Having said that, I believe it is natural that one in the final evaluation of the scheme examines the effects of the discount scheme on traffic at neighbouring aerodromes that are not covered by the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1546	A press release of 20 December 2002 from the Ministry of Transport states that the Ministry of Transport assumes that the scheme will be evaluated after a certain period of time. The Council of State has now indicated that the testing scheme will at least work until 2005. Then it might be interesting to hear: Would you not want to make a continuous assessment of the situation by the Council of State at all? Do you want to wait until after 2005, which you could get the impression from the Council's response? Furthermore, it's actually a company that has announced that you want to start flying from Vigra Airport. This is a company that is not established in More and Romesdal today. It is also a company that has purchased some aircraft that are in such a category that they cannot land on, among other things. Åø airport because Boeing 737-800 requires longer runway than Åø can offer. I would like to ask the Council of State the following question: will the Council of State not at all look at this situation in order to increase foreign traffic from Vigra?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1553	As I said in my reply, it is that every company that establishes new routes from Avinor’s airports today has a derogation from the starting fee for two years. That means, as I said, that only when this two-year period has expired will you start with the 90 pst experience. Discount. When starting this scheme from 1 January 2003, it will in practice mean that we do not have experience with it either in 2003 or 2004, but we are beginning to gain experience in 2005. It makes no sense to carry out an evaluation of a system that in practice has no effect until 2005. We need to take the evaluation when the scheme has begun to have an impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1558	Governments are always talking about evaluation. The problem is the distortion of competition between aerodromes, and in addition, it is actually an airline that will start operations from Vigra Airport if this scheme is applied there as well, i.e. a new company with new routes abroad in a district that is very dependent on exports and good links with, inter alia. Both England and the continent. My question to the Council of State is whether she can confirm the following, as I got the impression from the answer here, that from the Government and the Department you will not do anything to help Vigra airport get this opportunity to establish these foreign routes by 90 pst. reduction, waiting for an evaluation and going out in 2005 before doing anything at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1563	The possibility of establishing itself lies there today. Two years without this kind of charge, I would say, gives a good opportunity to establish itself, and we don't know if those routes exist in two years. I believe that the system that Avinor has today provides a very good opportunity for new routes to establish themselves, be it at Vigra or at other airports. Finally, we cannot evaluate a system that has not been implemented in practice until about a year. Therefore, the evaluation cannot be carried out until good by 2005. Of course, I would like to welcome several companies to Norwegian airports, including Vigra.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1573	This question, from the representative of Marit Arnstad to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1576	I will ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: «The Pension Commission is in favour of establishing some form of compulsory occupational pension. In line with the same position, the Right-Rapporteur in Stavanger now requires that private companies that are going to compete with the municipality for assignments must have pension schemes for their employees. How does the Council of State view this, and how can it prevent employees’ pension schemes from becoming a balancing item in the competition between municipal and private actors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1585	There are clear guidelines on how to address the issue of employee pension schemes in cases where there is competition between municipal and private suppliers. The general rule is that applicable competition law and EEA law impose certain requirements. This means that if, for example: a municipality is required to require social security schemes, such as pension schemes, to be included in an offer basis by private operators, in a manner that satisfies the principle of non-discrimination and proportionality. The principle of non-discrimination includes, inter alia: that there are no conditions that are more difficult to meet for foreign operators than for Norwegians. The principle of proportionality means that no more burdensome conditions are to be imposed. If the municipality meets these requirements, it will be possible for the municipality, within the current legislation, to impose different types of requirements for an offer. But I believe it should be up to each municipality to decide what conditions they want to impose on a calculation basis in a tendering procedure within the framework of this legislation. I therefore see it, for example. not as appropriate to regulate the conditions to be included in the calculation basis in a tendering round. In my view, such legal regulation is contrary to the principle of local self-government. I also trust that private suppliers who may assume responsibility for former municipal employees will respect the rights and needs of employees without the need to regulate this in the form of the law. The question raised by the Pension Commission is whether to introduce a general occupational pension for all, both in the private and public sectors in Norway. It is a question that I believe we should address as part of the work on the suspension of the Pension Commission. It does not necessarily relate to the question of the requirements to be imposed by the municipalities or the requirements to be imposed by the State primarily on the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1594	I thank you for your answer. Let me stress that the Central Party and the Government have different positions when it comes to the principle of the launching of heavy welfare services. However, I had hoped that we could be some, for the first thing about the principle that competition should take place on equal terms, and the second thing about adding their rights to the goods. In fact, whether employees are linked to a pension agreement or not will make a significant cost difference between two or more equivalent actors. For example, the Pension Commission calculates: with the municipalities having to set 10-15 pst. of current salary payments to cover future pensions. Is it not true that the Government has also signaled action to stimulate pension schemes even in private businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1601	Clearly, this is an open discussion with the Pension Commission to establish a general regulatory framework for occupational pensions. That will be part of what I think you also have to discuss as a basis for a general national compromise in order to get better pension schemes, while taking into account that we do not impose costs on Norwegian business that would mean that we actually had to lose jobs because we have come out of line with what other countries have as cost levels on the same services. However, according to my concepts, there is a completely different and basically general question, a question as to what requirements the individual municipality has in a tender procedure. And there's my basic answer that I have faith in the municipal sector. I believe that the local authorities have to decide on this for themselves, and I do not want to regulate in detail what degree of freedom the municipalities should have. Actually, I had hoped that the Center Party, which usually talks about local self-government, would have meant the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1606	It is true that the Center Party is an avid champion of local self-government. But we actually thought it important these days to have clear rules that take care of them added both in municipalities and in private businesses. We have a deep disagreement that one here should accept a practice that makes such a difference. So we're talking about costs that apply to individuals adding their security for the future. I'm surprised that the Council of State will not go into this issue at all, but I'm glad that there are Right-People who choose to do it. Will she then think that it is Right in Stavanger who here is in favour of a good right-wing policy, or is it Right in Oslo, who does not want such arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1611	I think it just shows the difference in local self-government, where within the Right you can make slightly different choices. But let me give you a good example of how difficult it is to give a basic answer to this: that's for example. so that snow mining in many municipalities is exposed to competition. The majority of this country's municipalities do not do their own snowing, at least not fully. Many of those who do snow mining in small municipalities in this country are farmers who have this as an additional nourishment. They are self-employed. In order to have such primacy, the problem is the requirement for occupational retirement provision and pension rights for a lone man who drives and drives his tractor to remove the snow. So that means that you have to take a little bit of different considerations in different places, depending on the areas. Then, in general, we have a pension requirement related to the nurses that ensures that all nurses are guaranteed a pension scheme. Of course, you can discuss these questions on a general basis. I trust that the municipalities will choose to take care of the best basis of competition, as they see it, but that they will also take care of the employees' interests. I think it's important to protect municipal autonomy. If we're going to regulate everything in detail, even within competitive areas, we can actually turn the municipalities into a branch of the state. I had, as I said, hoped that wasn't what the Center Party really wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1623	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment: ‘The Ministry of the Environment gave a clear signal of a four-year action plan to save the mountain reefs just before the turn of the year. According to the Internet edition of the Evening Post on 25 January 2004, this involves hunting for red reefs and feeding mountain reefs. This runs counter to the technical advice given in the Mountain Reef Action Plan, published by the Directorate for Nature Management [[DN]] What are the technical reasons for the decision on the action plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1632	It is gratifying that the representative of Korsberg appears to be concerned that the management of the animal group of predators, to which the reefs belong, is based as much as possible on the technical advice of the Directorate of Nature Management. Maintaining mountain reefs in Norway is an important environmental objective. This is also clarified by the Storting Energy and Environment Committee several times, including. as late as the current year's budget. I have recently given the Directorate of Nature Management a clear signal to launch an action plan to prevent the mountain reefs from disappearing from Norwegian nature. The Ministry’s clear signal came after a thorough treatment process. In this process, the Directorate prepared a draft action plan, sent the draft to the hearing and received comments from a number of bodies. The Directorate's action plan was then forwarded to the Ministry. The Ministry of the Environment, by letter of 27 December 2003, concluded that the Directorate continues or initiates the measures proposed in the action plan. These include measures such as the capture and breeding of mountain reefs for later release into nature, the identification of important areas of life for mountain reefs and the strengthening of the knowledge of the relationship between red reefs and mountain reefs. The Directorate-General Action Plan also discusses measures such as the control of red reefs and the feeding of mountain reefs. There is uncertainty in the professional community about the impact of red fox control and feeding on mountain reefs. Some believe that red fox control and feeding will have a positive effect on mountain reef survival, while others are doubtful about this. Both the red fox control and the feeding of mountain reefs are measures carried out in Sweden. I have assumed that the situation of mountain reefs in Norway is very serious, while the protection of the species is difficult. It is difficult because there is uncertainty about why the mountain reef population has not recovered after the species was saved more than 70 years ago. The Ministry of the Environment believes that measures such as the control of red reefs and the feeding of mountain reefs should not be inexperienced, since it is a matter of preventing one of the nature of the mountain nature from disappearing from Norway. For this reason, the Ministry has asked the Directorate to carry out a project of red reef control in selected areas and trials on the feeding of mountain reefs associated with this. The project will be followed up with an ongoing impact assessment. In addition, I have notified the measures of red fox control and mountain fox feeding in a separate letter to the Energy and Environment Committee of 24 November 2003, in connection with the budgetary procedure. I stressed in the letter that these measures would not be implemented until the Storting had dealt with the Ministry of the Environment's budget proposal and had not had any comments. I have noticed that neither the Progress Party nor anyone else had any objections in the budgetary position to the measures which I explicitly notified the Committee in this letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1651	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is absolutely right that this is a broad political consensus on preserving the mountain reefs, and it probably appreciates both the councils and the mountain reefs. If the red fox does the same thing, I'm a little bit more unsure about it, but it gets us as well as the red fox looking at it. What matters to me a little bit here is that on both the Swedish and Finnish sides, we've tried to preserve the mountain reefs. Then it's natural to ask the Council of State if he has cooperation with the other Nordic countries in terms of the conservation of the mountain reefs, because here you are within a geographically integrated area. Has there been any exchange of experience to preserve the mountain reef population?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1660	As I underlined in my first answer, this is with red fox control and feeding mountain reefs discussed in the professional community. This has been tried for several years in Sweden and Finland, and results have also been obtained from this which has led to the continuation of this type of investment. I think it is natural to see the Norwegian projects in conjunction with the projects that have been in Sweden and Finland. But because this has been discussed in professional environments also in Norway, where some leading scientists say that we don't have a chance to save the mountain reefs without trying this out with red reef control and feeding, I think it was right that we in limited areas try it out. But at the same time I would inform the committee about this explicitly and say that I would not initiate this without getting the Storting's feedback on it. When I did not get negative feedback from Stortinget, I started it, but on those premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1667	It is absolutely right that we got feedback in connection with the budget on this. The extent to which we knew of the trials carried out in our neighbouring countries should be uncertain, but I think it is important to have a dialogue with Sweden and Finland in this area, as it affects both of these countries and, in reality, a common mountain reef is managed here. But will it be appropriate to extend these trials as regards the conservation of mountain reefs, as regards both harvesting of red reefs, feeding and breeding, in addition to the plan that is now under way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1674	The important thing is that the limited trials that will now be carried out with red fox control and feeding are followed up with an ongoing evaluation of the consequences. The implementation of these measures will thus also help us to gain more professional knowledge as a basis for the future management of mountain reefs. That's the frame around it from the department. The reason why we have also addressed this is that a final report from the LIFE-Nature project entitled ‘Preserving mountain foxes...’, prepared by the Swedish authorities in this area, states that: ‘combined with red fox control’ means the feeding of ‘assessed as effective’ measures ‘provided that there are sufficient mountain reefs in the area concerned. The project was implemented between July 1998 and December 2002. Swedish and Finnish institutions that have participated in the project include:: Stockholm University...» – and various others. It is said that it is desirable to continue this in order to evaluate whether there are effective projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1686	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-04.ana.ud2159e1696	There is no record.
