ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e28	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of Odelstingen's meetings today and tomorrow. - It is deemed to have been adopted. With the fact that the group leaders have now decided that the presidents will have the power to propose themselves, the president will propose that Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen be elected as president of today's meeting and for tomorrow's meeting. Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget's meetings today and tomorrow. The representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen will present a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e37	I have the honour to make a proposal by Mr Gjul, Mr Dybevig, Mr Ellingsen, Mr Thorkildsen, Mr Skei Grande and myself on the law amending the Law of 22 May 1981 No. 25 on the proceedings in criminal matters, where victims of forced marriage are given the right to an aid lawyer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e42	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e55	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e64	The government and a broad majority of the parties on the Stortinget have on several occasions underlined the importance of stimulating increased investment in micro, mini and small power plants, and there are several reasons for this. One reason, of course, is the fact that increased power generation contributes to a strengthened power balance. Although this type of power plant is concerned with the production of small quantities of power for each power plant, it is nevertheless such that these together make an important contribution to a strengthened power balance - there are not many days since we discussed St.meld. No 18, on security of supply for electricity, etc., where precise targets for increased production were underlined. In the Government’s ten-point list of measures to improve security of supply, the strengthening of the development of mini, micro and small power plants was one of the measures, which was also backed by a broad political majority in the Stortinget. The second reason is the importance of this type of hydroelectric power plant to ensure an income base in the districts - often in addition to regular farm operations. The problem with regard to the application procedures for this type of minor extension has been that the application documentation and scope are partly the same as if the project were of the size of an Alta extension. Since the individuals behind this type of project are often individuals, it goes without saying that it has been a difficult procedure for many to work through the procedural requirements and that this must be seen as a barrier to the establishment of small-scale industrial activities in the districts. In Ot.prp. No 54, which is under consideration today, the Government proposes legislative changes to the Industrial Concession Act to simplify the procedure for the development of small hydropower plants, and I am pleased that a majority supports this proposal. This change will result in new power stations with installed power up to approx. 5 MW will no longer need concession under the Industrial Concession Act, but will be treated by NVE under the Water Resource Act. Nature and environment considerations will continue to be addressed through concessional treatment under this Act. A minority have raised issues related to the institution of repatriation with regard to this legislative amendment proposal. I would therefore like to make it clear that the legislative proposal does not involve any change to the rules on the withdrawal, but changes the limit on which falls are to be subject to concession under the Industrial Concession Act. Today, micro- and mini-power plants are excluded from this type of concessional treatment, i.e. that extensions up to 1000 natural horsepower are not subject to repatriation requirements. When a majority now wants to raise this limit to 4,000 natural horsepowers, there is no drama in this, although some parties do their best to inflate the issue. This type of expansion is completely at the bottom of the scale in terms of hydropower expansions. Here, small interventions, usually without regulation, often involve local landowners such as investors or co-investors - an important contribution to district value creation. There has been a broad consensus that it must be easier to establish mini, micro and small power plants. Then it's important not just to talk about simplification, but actually to make the necessary legislative changes that will give concrete simplifications to those involved. That's what the Government and the majority of the population do with this law change. With regard to the proposed amendment to the Waterways Regulatory Act, it will allow the Ministry to authorise projects of more than 20 000 natural horsepower without presenting it to the Stortinget, if the project as such is not controversial. In practice, these will often be issues such as the renewal of previously granted regulatory concessions and other applications for concession under the Industrial Concession Act for previously developed waterfalls. This amendment of the law will lead to simplification and a rational division of labour between departments and economies, and I am pleased that a majority is behind this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e87	Ot. pp. No 54 describes two main issues. One is the lifting of the concession obligation from 1000 to 4000 natural horsepower. The other concerns issues about which major issues - 20,000 natural horsepowers - are to be presented to the Stortinget. The starting point for both is that you want to have a simpler procedure and a reduced procedure time. Firstly, as the rapporteur pointed out, there is also a desire to facilitate better small-scale power stations and small-scale industrial activities. The odelstings proposition so reasonably politically harmless out when it got us into her earlier in the spring. The proposals contained in the proposal had been consulted. 32 opinions had come in. Apart from the County of West Agder, none of the hearing bodies strongly objected to the proposals. It is to be wondered whether the reason for this consensus in the consultation process is the fact that the political explosive in this case, namely the problem of repatriation, was not discussed or, at least, had not been raised well enough, in the proposition. My answer to that question is very clear: if the case-by-case issue had been discussed and the conclusions had been drawn in the proposal, the consultation round would most likely have created a completely different debate and given entirely different feedback. The rapporteur repeats in his statement that what is involved in this matter, in the proposition, does not change the problem of return. It shall be for the account of the President of the case. The Socialist Left, in its comments, notes that they find it alarming that the changes in the rules of the fall-back are not mentioned in the proposition and that the Government is promoting such a proposal while a publicly appointed sample is in the process of investigating the rules of the fall-back. The Labour Party has not gone into these comments, but we will nevertheless be quite clear that we are asking the same questions. Why haven't you discussed it, and why do you do it while the sample is working on the questions? We have not received any clear answers to it so far in the process, and we hardly get it today either. A minority in the Committee, through correspondence with the Ministry of Oil and Energy, had to draw some answers from the Ministry. That should be unnecessary. I have no problem seeing that this is good right-wing policy, which the Progress Party can embrace with its eyes closed. I am not surprised, however, that the Christian People's Party, with its political anchoring, can support a proposal that deals with a change in the right to return. It's while a sample is at work, and without the problem being solved. I am amazed at the time after time that the Christian People's Party has its backbone to bring forward pure Right-wing policy. As the matter stands after the examination of the Committee, a majority of the Government's proposals are in place with regard to the first bit - lifting of the concession obligation from 1000 to 4000 natural horsepowers. The other is that agreement. I'm sorry that you agree on this cancellation -- not because it's supposed to simplify people, but because it's part of the home-fall problem. I see beyond that no purpose in arguing more about that issue in this round. The fronts are fixed and the majority are locked. Let me just conclude by stating that the Workers' Party is in order to reduce the length of the procedure for hydroelectric power development cases, but believes that it must be possible to do so in such a way that it does not affect the rules on withdrawal. We will come back to the question that concerns the industrial concession law and repatriation, when the decision of the Home Affairs Committee is to be dealt with by Stortinget. The Labour Party, as I said, supports the proposals of around 20 000 natural-horsepower issues. I would recommend my group and everyone else to vote against the committee's recommendation in the first paragraph of Section 1. The rest of the proposals in the Committee's recommendation I would recommend that the Working Party support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e108	I'm not going to take a long time. I am very pleased today that a majority is now contributing to the simplification of the legislation on the construction of smaller power plants. Already during the treatment of the energy message in the spring of 2000, Stortinget said, and I think it was unanimous, that there should be more investment in mini, micro and small power plants. But little has unfortunately been done by concrete action before today. I have a number of times, both in Great Britain's Question Time and in other ways, pointed out the potential that lies here, but there has unfortunately been little willingness to do anything before now. Last spring, after a winter of power shortage and sky-high power prices, I, together with the representatives Carl I. Hagen and Øyvind Korsberg, promoted a Document No. 8 proposal, document 8:71. There we took up increased hydropower production in general and mini, micro and small power plants in particular. During the treatment of this, a unanimous collapse said that there was a significant power potential that could be exploited here. At the same time, a large majority, in fact all except the Socialist Left, pointed out how difficult it was to realise such projects, as the development of small-scale power stations must be carried out through as extensive application processes as in the case of large power plants. I am therefore pleased that Odelstingen is now following up this with concrete action through this amendment. The development of mini, micro and small power plants will be important and will contribute positively to our power balance, which has been significantly weakened in recent years. Scattered power generation will also have a very positive impact on the power situation in many places, which may also be difficult in many places. And last but not least, this is in my opinion good district policy, as such projects will provide important additional revenue to many landowners in the districts. I just want to end by asking the Council of State whether he has considered further raising the concession threshold. The Progress Party has proposed this earlier, and now I am pleased to note that it was also decided at the Right Country Meeting to increase the limit to 10 MW.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e121	I take up the proposal from SV and the Center Party and announce that SV will vote against the law as a whole. Case spokesperson Meling says that there is no drama in this, that the case is inflated. It must appear. But for SV, there are some fundamental things in this law that we want to focus on, and that also the Labour Party's representative was involved. The Landssaman accession of watercourse municipalities - LVK - has expressed itself critical in retrospect, when they saw what this was all about. LO wants to transfer this item to the Home Fall selection. And as Knut Werner Hansen of the Workers' Party said here, it should have been a quality assurance gap against the relapse, but it has not been the case. It has SV through questions to get information about. The government and Steensnæs have been trying some time ago to get a quick treatment of the entire rehab institute. In a few months, Stortinget was to deal with this, with short temptations, and without thorough evaluations, including very short delays, from the hearing authorities. The Labour Party, the Progress Party and SV considered this irresponsible policy. We wanted another scheme. The Labour Party, the Advance Party, and SV made sure that the Government had to set down a wide-ranging selection to go through the Home Fall Institute. So there was something the government had to do after control from Stortinget. Today, the Government Party and the Advance Party grant several Norwegian Falls exemptions from the concession terms and conditions, which will not be returned. So the question is, does that mean that they can be owned by foreign companies? The answer is yes! It is the wisdom of 1917 that the Government is now weakening. SV fails districts, says the Council of State in the media. If the ownership of the fossan was not significant, such a claim should be made correctly. Ownership of this government is not so important. This government wants privatisation, it wants AS authentication. State power, which owns the greatest small-power actor, wants the Christian People's Party to assimilate so as to sell out, as the Christian People's Party and other parties did with Statoil. The government has a credential problem when it's said that the Homefall Institute doesn't get weak. When the Government facilitates the privatisation of Statkraft, which owns the largest small power plant developer, Small Power AS, it facilitates the hall of Norwegian fossils. That'll weaken a rehab institute. That's simple logic. SV won't fail districts. It's the government party and the Progress Party that do it. In the short term, they may strengthen the districts, but in the long term, the districts may be weakened. What SV does is what is responsible and long-term. We do not want to facilitate the hall of Norwegian Falls. Why can't we let this matter go to the Homefall Selection? What's so important? That's what I hope the Council of State will come up with in its article. Why do we have to rush through these things, when we actually have a homefall selection that could look at things, something like that. LO has wanted it? SV is, as many have been involved, for increased expansion of mini- and micro-power plants, but not by all means. Today the price is too high!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e142	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e145	Odelstinget is currently examining proposals from the Ministry of Oil and Energy on amendments to the Industrial Concession Act and the Waterways Regulatory Act to raise the concession requirement limit under the Industrial Concession Act from 1000 to 4000 natural horsepower. Furthermore, it is proposed that it is no longer an obligation for the concession authority to submit to the Storting all cases of more than 20 000 natural horsepower before the concession is granted. The government's proposals affect many landowners who have considerable potential for the creation of small power plants but who have until now felt hindered by complex and extensive concession processes. The proposal therefore seeks to facilitate a simpler treatment procedure, while raising the exemption to 5 MW installed power. This implies that this type of development is only treated under the Water Resource Act and delegated as decision-making authority to NVE. The government's proposal to increase the concession limit to 4000 natural horsepower will strengthen the economy of several small power plants and provide a better economic incentive for the development of smaller hydropower plants. This is in line with the Government’s strategy to ensure increased power generation through a better use of the hydropower potential, as reflected in the Security of Supply Communication. Overall, the small power potential represents an important contribution to the power supply. However, the individual project is relatively low in power. Moreover, most of the projects do not constitute environmental negative impacts on a scale that requires more extensive treatment procedures and concession obligations. This consideration has continued to be borne in mind by the Government’s proposal for an increase in the concession threshold. There is further reason to stress the economic positive effects the proposal will have on landowners and districts who have long sought the changes that the Government and the majority of population are now making. It has been argued along the way - and it is repeated today - that the Government's proposal represents a threat to Norwegian ownership of hydropower resources, and that foreign buyers are ready to take over our legacy silver. This is wrong. An increase in the concession threshold, as proposed by the Government, still affects very small power plants for which there is no indication that foreign operators have a notable interest. On the other hand, it can be stated that the scheme provided by the Government can help to strengthen Norwegian ownership. Waterfalls where you need a concession cannot be rented by private owners today. By contrast, raising the concession limit will allow private landowners to rent out waterfalls with a force base of up to 4000 natural horsepower. This will improve the conditions for small hydropower plants, without separating the resource from the property beyond a limited time period. Landowners themselves have been concerned that they should not lose the ownership of their waterfalls. Some extensive sales of fall rights as a result of this bill are therefore very little grounds for claiming that it will be. It has been claimed that the Government's proposal is a result of urgent work. And that's also wrong. The case has been dealt with in a very thorough manner, including: through two consultation rounds, of which the first broadcast took place a year and a half ago. It's interesting to note that of all 32 hearing bodies, only one was against the Government's proposal. This shows that there is a great deal of support for the changes to which the majority of people today also belong. Nor is there any reason to claim that the Government is now opening up a smelting privatisation of Norwegian hydropower. There are already many private owners of small power plants. I would assume that those who have expressed themselves critical of the changes will not deprive farmers of their power plants and landowners or impose a concession obligation on all small power plants that do not currently have a concession under today's scheme up to 1 000 natural horsepowers. To claim, as SV repeats today, that you have a principle position on this, is wrong in my opinion, because then you would also have to get rid of those who today have this freedom of concession. Then the principle had been implemented. I am pleased that there is broad support in the Storting for the changes proposed by the Government in the proposition, and I hope and believe that it could trigger further efforts on small-scale power generation. The power situation needs this, and districts and landowners need this as a basis for new optimism and nutrient development in areas of the country that are sorely in need of such a vitamin injection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e166	The centre party is positive that a micro, mini and small power plant is being developed, and that one can do so in a simpler way, both because it is an important source of power generation and power supply locally, and because it is an important source of nutrient development in the districts. It could happen in several ways. Simplified procedure has been mentioned several times by the Committee and delegation of power is important. It is also important to allow for a greater degree of extension of banks to sheltered watercourses, and then the issue of what should be the lower limit of concession obligations under the Industrial Concession Act is a matter of importance. But I have to say that when I experience today, and also look at the setting, that there is a certain attempt to make this a matter between those who are going to be for and against landowners and farmers being allowed to deploy micro- and mini-power plants, I think it is creating a poor polarization. That's not what this is about. In the Center Party, we have nothing against private development of mini, micro or small power plants. That's where we're going to separate from SV. We have nothing against them developing their nutritional basis. However, when we go against Section 1 of today's proposal for a change of law, it is because we believe that the way this matter has been handled by the Government has created confusion and unrest, and that it is completely unnecessary that it should now be run through the Storting today in the way the majority wants. The Central Party wishes to put an end to the question of whether to increase the industrial concession law limit, in order to remove any reasonable doubt as to the relationship of this proposal with the right of repatriation. At that time, it would have been natural that this proposal had been taken into account in relation to the question of the recommendations of the Home Affairs Committee, as well as in response to the recommendations of the Home Affairs Committee. It would have been a wise and reasonable way to deal with the matter. It also seems quite random in the opinion of the Centre Party that one has chosen to set the limit of the lower concession obligation just to 4000 natural horsepowers. It seems like there's kind of a number taken out of the air, and in our opinion, it's not very well justified from the Government's point of view that it's exactly where one has to put the limit. Both on the issue of the location of the lower limit and on the issue of the importance of those provisions in the context of the right of repatriation, a simple and straightforward solution could have been found to all the concerns, doubts and ambiguities that have arisen by linking them to the recommendations of the Committee on Home Affairs. It is quite difficult to understand that there is going to be such a high level of performance in a case that one should not be able to agree to a reasonable procedure. Suffering if you have had both one and two consultation rounds, it is that the matter has been in Stortinget for a relatively short time. It is also that it could be natural to see it in relation to the recommendations of the Home Affairs Committee, whether it has been through consultation in isolation in the past. Then one has introduced the new word "natural horsepower". It's a depression, but I have to let the council say there's enough complicated expressions in the power industry without one having to introduce another. Can't we stick to the good old GWh expression? In any case, the Central Party believes that this matter should be a reminder that there will be lots in this room that will not accept attempts at any quick turns or any ambiguity on issues that may affect the right of return of the day. Suffering if the proposal from the centre party and SV today is voted down, the matter will at least be a reminder of that. For its part, the centre party will vote against Section 1 and for the remaining paragraphs of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e187	The government will facilitate the development of small hydropower plants. Such development is good rural policy and also strengthens local and regional power generation. An organisation requires simplification in concession treatment. Such simplifications have called for the Storting in the past, and now the Government answers. The Government has submitted proposals for amendments to the Industrial Concession Act and the Waterways Regulatory Act. It is not possible to exclude that a comprehensive concession process is hampering the establishment of small power plants - everyone who has been in the districts talking to farmers and others with rights will have experienced. The Government's proposal to raise the concession limit under the Industrial Concession Act is not a change to the rules on the withdrawal, as the Senterpartiet and SV claim. I am the first to go to the barricades in order for the repatriation scheme to continue in combination with strong public ownership - it also marked the Government's proposal for a repatriation scheme. At the same time, however, there must be the opportunity to allow private owners of less water to continue to dispose of their rights without such conditions, as it is today. This will not at all weaken public ownership of the hydropower. What we're talking about here is just new hydropower plants. The change we are proposing means that the acquisition of water falls below 4000 natural horsepowers and which have not been subject to concession treatment in the past will now be non-concessional. In the absence of a concession, concession terms may not be imposed, for example: fees, concession power and repatriation. This will make it easier for farmers, farmers and other landowners in the districts to exploit less fall-back rights they own. If the water fall can be exploited to more than 1 000 natural horsepowers, the owner will be referred to, in accordance with the applicable rules, most often to sell the fall rights to realise the value if he or she does not build up the property at his or her own expense and risk. Waterfalls that require a concession cannot be rented out of the private sector. It is sales that will potentially be the greatest threat to a national ownership of the fox traps in the districts, owned by those who live there. Such a sale is fully possible today. An increase in the concession limit will allow landowners to still own the waterfalls and instead rent out waterfalls with a force base of up to 4000 natural horsepower. The legislative proposal will therefore facilitate the realization by landowners of the value of their waterfalls at temporary rental and the retention of ownership. It is important to note that the proposal does not involve any amendment of the concession obligation under the Water Resource Act and that the consideration of nature and the environment will continue to be ensured through concessional treatment under this Act. The proposed limit of 4000 natural horsepower is approximately equivalent. 5 MW installed power. I have not considered a further increase to be appropriate - to respond to the representative, Mr. Vaksdal. A power plant of 5 MW installed power without regulation will have an annual energy production of approx. 20-25 GWh, with an investment limited to approx. 40-50 million. kr. The size of 40 GWh at such small power plants, which have been swirling around in the debate, is therefore not correct, nor is the claim of investment in the hundreds of millions. And it doesn't get any more right by repeating this statement. Regulatory power plants will continue to be subject to concession under the terms of the Watercourse Regulatory Act when regulation increases hydropower by at least 500 natural horsepowers. Therefore, the facilities which will not be subject to a concession with repatriation conditions are limited to new river power stations of the order of up to 25 GWh, which do not exploit regulations. There is therefore no reason to fear that this weakens the fall-back institute. Nor is there any reason to believe that the change will lead to any significant sale, either domestic or foreign. Furthermore, the Government proposes that it should not be an obligation for the concession authorities to present to the Storting all cases of more than 20 000 natural horsepower. The aim of this proposal is to avoid completely curative cases being brought before the Stortinget. I'm glad that the Storting gives its approval to this. This proposal will ensure a rational division of labour between government and enlargement, where all the controversial issues will be presented to the Stortinget. The government's proposal to raise the concession threshold has recently raised a surprising amount of upsurge, despite the fact that the proposals became known to the Stortinget already through the security of supply notification, which was presented last December, and after the Council of State has made many comments on this. As has been mentioned, the proposal has been sent to a wide-ranging consultation. So it's the opposite of a "snail entry" that exists here. This is a matter that has been thoroughly prepared, and I am also pleased with the strong support that the proposal has received from rapporteurs in the district of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e216	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e219	Just let it be clear: the working party is for the development of micro, mini and small power plants as well. We also agree that there is a potential for more force here, and we are very much in order to reduce the time spent dealing with such cases. We need to deal with this more quickly in order to get more force out in this area as well, but we are very concerned that it has to be done in such a way that it does not affect the rules on withdrawal at all. That's where the government has been somewhat unclear, and we don't want to be in it. We want it to be clear that we are going to have official control of our water resources, and that in this way we are taking care of our inheritance silver whether it is large or small. My question is, can the Council of State confirm that there are other possibilities to reduce the duration of proceedings also in such cases without affecting the institution of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e226	Of course, I am pleased that the Workers' Party is positive for simplification - but when the Workers' Party is given the opportunity to join a sensible proposal from the Government, I only note that the party is running from its positive position and postponing something that now very many with fall rights in District Norway want, whether it be farmers or others. This will also contribute to strengthening Norwegian ownership. Today they can sell with fall rights to non-residents; nothing prevents them from doing so initially. The interest in this has been limited. The working party neglects the possibility of getting something that could really mean something for district development. Yes, it is possible to do other grips, but this is what will please. Here, a rather frustrating paper mill that many people with rights of fall would like to avoid. A discharge of concession power obligations and a discharge of concession fee. So there are both economic and administrative arguments that this is a sensible approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e235	There are today many plans for the development of smaller power plants, and several of them have been waiting for years. Some people are affected by the change in law we are making today, and they are of course very satisfied with what Odelstinget is now going to adopt. However, there are many applicants today who have received signals that they should be treated in accordance with old legislation for yet another time in the future. They have therefore expressed their concern on the telephone to the undersigned, and I have also received such signals from the Association for Small Power Plants. Will the Council of State explain how soon this law becomes effective in the field of proceedings and will the Council of State ensure that the applications submitted today are dealt with in accordance with new legislation? After all, everyone has to be earned the benefit of avoiding unnecessary red tape by first dealing with old legislation and refusing, and then, on a new application, hopefully giving a positive answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e244	I can confirm what Mr. Waksdal says, that there's a lot of enthusiasm and commitment out there. This has created an optimism in the villages that I think it has been very inspiring to be able to register. There are great expectations for this because some waterfalls are in such a class that they fit with an uplift of up to 4000 natural horsepowers. I also know that there is a part that has applications in it, and they must, of course, be treated like all cases, according to the applicable law. The proposal for a resolution today, III, states that the law will come into force immediately. In other words, this law enters into force per year. date, but the applications contained must be dealt with in accordance with the applicable law. But of course, I'm going to see if it's possible to find an understanding that means that someone does not use both paragraphs and rules to stop power plants that could naturally be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e251	Let me make it clear: SV is for the development of mini and micro power plants. We have our whole way. But we think it should happen under order forms, where we know what we're doing, 100 pst. In this case, the multiple numbers don't know what they're giving up on. This may have consequences. Government says the Government is for a strong public ownership. Just these days, a proposal has been made for AS-identification of Statkraft. A look from this government's side is a weakening of ownership -- a weakening of ownership one also saw in Statoil-saka. So here's one talking to itself. Finally, what is the main reason why the Council of State is unable to attend and send this matter to the Home Affairs Committee, such as the Council of State. L.A. has asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e260	It has been claimed that the matter here has created uncertainty, uncertainty - an uncertainty that needs to be clarified. At my discretion, this matter is quite straightforward and clear. It is a matter of raising the concession limit under the Industrial Concession Act, so that those who own such waterfalls can own them, and that a person fails to pay the concession fee, the concession power and submit a concession application. This has been a matter that has been carefully assessed for a year and a half, in which all the hearing bodies have been positive, except for the County of West Agder, and I have explained this in several lectures with majorisation representatives. SV cannot be for mini and micro power plants while raising the rhetoric to call this "snick introduction". I think that's what triggered some of the political reactions here in the Storting. This is about allowing the Norwegian people to own the hydropower in the districts where they live. That is why this is primarily good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e267	In its article, the Council of State points out that if it repeats several times, an incorrect claim does not become correct. I guess we can agree on that. The Council of State reiterates the message that the proposal for an increase from 1 000 to 4 000 natural horsepower does not entail a change in the rules of repatriation. We believe that the claim is wrong, that is, a claim that does not get more accurate if it is repeated, even by a government council. The Council of State confirms in its reply to the representative Brustad that other measures to simplify the procedure are possible. The question is why it has not been discussed in the motion for a resolution. Finally, the Council of State reiterates the post office that the Labour Party, through its position on this matter, and then on the rise from 1 000 to 4000, is opposed to good district policy. It's also a wrong claim, and so a claim that doesn't get any better even if it's repeated by a government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e278	To the question of why the Government has not discussed these other measures that would simplify the procedure and make it easier for persons/interests with ownership of fall rights to realise those fall rights without raising the concession threshold. Yes, this has been discussed in the so-called security of supply communication. This is an odelstation proposition. In Odelstingen, a law discusses, and that's why the government came to Odelstingen to ask for change in the laws. The Homeland Institute, as such, we have to fight for it to remain. There has been some political disagreement about it. I'm glad that this government has chosen to retain the Homefall Institute. How this fall-back institute is going to be conducted, there are a lot of opinions about, and I know that the Homefall Committee is struggling to make a clear recommendation. But I hope that this expansion and the next will sustain the fall-back institute as an important mechanism to maintain the national ownership of the Norwegian power resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e283	The last thing I agree with the Council of State. I think it is positive that the Council of State so clearly commits itself from the Spokesman's Chair that the fall-back should be maintained as a security related to Norwegian hydropower resources. There must also be a very strong commitment to what the Government will do when the recommendations of the Committee on Home Affairs are available. Governments are significantly irritated. At the same time he says that this is a completely uncomplicated matter. If it is so uncomplicated, what would it have cost to have waited and then promoted the matter along with the recommendations of the Home Affairs Committee, or waited and removed the doubts and concerns that the matter has, after all, created? Because one must say that the matter has been done. That's the one question. The second question is, why are there exactly 4,000 natural horsepowers chosen? Why does the council put the intersection right there? Why does he have to go so far up to today's level?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e292	If the Council of State sounds somewhat frustrated, there might be something in it. The reason for this postponement is probably a reference to the Home Affairs Committee - or that, as SV, you will vote against it. That's this rhetoric and the reason for what I think is completely unreasonable, that this would in some way threaten Norwegian ownership, while in my opinion, it's completely sincere, the opposite that will be the case. It's precisely because it's straightforward that I don't think it's necessary to wait, because now there are so many who see the possibilities. Why should we now add this to an uncertain future and prevent the involvement created in the districts from being triggered? With regard to raising to 4000 natural horsepowers, it is linked to a number of measures taken by this government. The level of 4000 natural horsepower is approximately 5 MW. A former energy minister is excused, but that is in relation to the law. It corresponds to the fact that we have let go of such power plants, both rent taxes and natural resource taxes, and now we take the third step by raising the concession limit under the industrial concession law. So here it goes a red thread-- or a green thread-- through several law decisions in the Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e300	The cord shift is therefore over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e305	There is reason to try to get clarification from the Council of State when this is the case with the ownership of the Norwegian people. I am aware from the past that the Christian People's Party has been with and privatized and sold out the property of the Norwegian people when it comes to Statoil, and now add one from the Government's side to AS-certification Statkraft. So one wants to go on the road to privatisation, where the Norwegian people are going to have less of Norwegian waterfalls in total. The level of precision is a little low, in my opinion, if a privateization is to continue to be owned by the Norwegian people, even if one is to take in foreign capital, such as one. has done in Statoil. The problem is the following: Small Power AS, as Statkraft owns, is the company that is now to expand the most of the fossan that is currently being granted its concessions. What is the constitution of the Council of State is to ensure that State power is privatized. It shall be AS-certified, and then one will facilitate that the very small power plants which state power will build will end up on foreign hands, as the Christian People's Party in its time helped Statoil to do. I think well in the spring of 2001, when the Christian People's Party together with the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV decided that Statkraft's ownership structure and homefall and concession laws should be established. That's what the Christian People's Party said in 2001. Does the Christian People's Party mean the same thing, or is it a glider who has seen from the Christian People's Party when it comes to the issue of privatisation, also the privatisation of Norwegian football?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e314	I don't think it's appropriate or right for someone in Odelstinget to start a debate on either State Power or Statoil. But I understand that SV has a more ideological starting point for their position when they go against the Government's proposal today. Let me just briefly say that the Government has not proposed a millimetre of sub-privatisation of State power with the proposal that lies here. This is an appropriate reorganization to give Statkraft the muscles they need to go into a Nordic and European market to do a good job. SV will equip Statkraft with significant capital. State power has the ambition to go out and buy up in both the Nordic and European markets. And then, in a way, what it opens up here should be a problem for SV, when a request that Norwegian fall rights remain on Norwegian hands through an appropriate scheme! I'm not going to make this happen. It does not relate to unless any partial privatization is seen as a thorn in the eye of those who ideologically believe that every water drop in this country should be owned by the state, municipalities or county municipalities. Yes, I am for a strong public ownership. I think it's good that both the state, the municipality and the county council hold their fall rights, but I don't intend to contribute to a policy that depletes the districts by putting my hands on these fall rights after a certain number of years, whether it be 60 or 70 years. If these small power plants were to suffer a relapse, farmers and others with district interests would be deprived of this. I have given up SV, but I have to say that I am sincerely disappointed by both the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which here can expose and create uncertainty about something that could mean something really positive for the districts, at a time when the incomes of the farmers and others living in the districts are depleted. They need something positive to see that here the Government and the Storting want to propose together something that could really mean something to the income flows, and thus strengthen the settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e325	It is possible that the Council of State thought we were approaching the end of the debate, but now he has helped to extend it. To say that it is the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that create confusion and unrest is to completely turn things upside down. It is possible that this matter is completely uncomplicated. It is possible that the Christian People's Party and the Council of State are major defenders of the right of repatriation, but it is very poorly communicated to the Stortinget in that case. The one who has created unrest and confusion here is the Government with its way of presenting this case, with the reasons given, with the vague answers given on the right of return before we came to the State Council's insurance here today, and also with the urgency of the matter being dealt with. So the last claim from the Council of State was, I must say, extremely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e332	I'm fully committed to what Arnstad's representative just said. I think it was completely unreasonable accusations against, among other things. The working party. The accusation of being indemnification of the districts because we do not now on all points support the proposal that the Government has submitted is highly incorrect. I also want to say that I might have walked a little cautiously if I had represented a government that stands for such a poor district policy as this government actually does. But there's another debate. We've been fighting all along for more power. We have also been in favour of, and will continue to be in favour of, reducing the length of the procedure, including in this area. But the Council of State itself has confirmed that there are other possibilities to do so, without prejudice to the fall-back institution. We get back to the rest of this when the case of a fall-back is processed, but then I hope that the Council of State will spare us such unreasonable accusations that we have just heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e343	The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, has spoken twice and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e346	I understand that the Council of State has given up SV, which is the word he is using. He has to do that, but I think it's a strange way to free himself from argumenting for his point of view. He should use the time to explain what this government is actually doing, but he's not taking the time to do that. When it comes to the SV depleting the districts, as the Council of State here claims, it is -- well, I'm not allowed to say such words, but there's no doubt that SV's district policy is the one that should have. Traveling into the districts, a listener will scream about how bad the government's district policy is. The fact that one in one case goes ahead and liberalizes home-fall legislation is not a sign that the government has offensive district policies, on the contrary. I record that the Christian People's Party's policy in relation to State power is to go for privatisation. It has consequences for the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e355	This debate has, to a large extent, evolved in a direction that might have been expected, starting from the commitment, in particular from SV, in advance. It starts to become quite typical that when we have one case in Stortinget, SV generally chooses to deal with other issues that are not for treatment in the hall. In this case, there is the question of State Power. As a result, we actually get attention away from the bombardment that SV in my opinion has done in this context, when they have gone out in the media and said that there is a large sale of Norwegian footfalls to the rest of the world. This is a complete record bomb. I think there is reason to stress what the Council of State says, namely that the uncertainty created by this question of what is happening in the future with the good projects that are pending and that have been sought over a number of years to clarify. That clarification makes the government very clear in the odelstningsproposition. The batches that now somehow choose to push this into uncertainty actually create uncertainty about what's going to happen to that potential in the future. In my opinion, it has a consequence, as SV requested. "This can have consequences," said the representative from SV. Of course it will have consequences! It will have the consequence that we create clarifications in relation to the many people sitting on the fence waiting for a clarification, and it creates not least a positive effect in relation to the force balance. We can do that now, as opposed to the minority, which will push this effect out in time, with the uncertainty and uncertainty that it just creates. That is why, in my opinion, there is a basis for what the Council of State says, that there is considerable uncertainty in the areas where this is most topical, and where the initiatives of the Government can best be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e368	I think it's about deciding what you want. One cannot say two things at once. To make this work well and to meet the expectations that are out there, I think one actually has to decide. One must decide whether one will listen to the arguments of the Government and what I have expressed in relation to what I think will happen, or whether one will rather listen to those who are opposed, those who believe that there is reason for greater scepticism. That's where I see both the Center Party and the Workers' Party as something more pending. There's the shades. But SV, who has so far triggered this debate and made it a big deal out of something that shouldn't be, has a completely different approach. One of the things I reacted to was three statements from SV. The first was that there was a snuff privatisation, which raised doubts about those who actually own such rights today, at all, should own them. Raising this from 1 000 natural horsepowers up to 4000 natural horsepowers does not significantly change this. I don't have any indications. The second thing I reacted to was the indication that we failed the right of return, despite the fact that SV and the whole Stortinget know that I have fought for this. In fact, I think it was quite serious that a doubt was raised, in fact also by the representative Arnstad, who said that it is possible that the Christian People's Party wants to defend the right of repatriation. Yes, it's not only possible, it's important for the Christian People's Party to defend the right of return. The third thing that I responded to was the indication that this would mean foreign purchases, without any evidence. But it was just before May 17th, and I can understand that it was turned on national strings that in some way in that setting indicated that here the government did something unthinkable. The hearing round clearly revealed that this was well justified by the Government. There was therefore no reason for this to be blown up into a big case. And I'm going to now just before Pentecost--we should probably put on a slightly more conciliatory tone then--getting to say that this case doesn't deserve so much debate at the tamp of a long spring season, but I'm still very happy that this case was finally closed now. I am convinced that those who want this evaluated by the Home Fall Committee - and I know the composition - can be sure that when that assessment comes and this is discussed in the context of the fall-back, the conclusion will be the same as the Government and the majority in Odelstinget today draws.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e379	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e392	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e399	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward the following proposals: "Ot. pp. No 54 on the Law amending Law 14 December 1917 No 16 on the acquisition of water, mining and other real estate, etc. [[2003-2004]] and Law 14 December 1917 No. 17 on watercourse regulations, sent back to the Government." The President will propose that this proposal by the Socialist Left and the Central Party be voted on first.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e440	Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they are in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e493	Here, the Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e506	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left Party has announced that they also want to go against the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e520	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27-lower.ana.ud35e531	There is no record.
