ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e28	The Socialist Left-wing Group has applied for welfare leave from 25 February to 3 March by Mr Ågot Valle. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, Ragna Flotve, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the agent Ågot Valle's leave, due to illness. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the commodity, Bjørn Lothe, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The bear Lothe is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e52	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Wednesday and Thursday – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office. – The President has understood it so that Mr. Olav Akselsen was going to propose a president. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e59	I suggest Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e64	Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen is proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings today and tomorrow. The representative of Mr Kjetil Bjørklund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e69	On behalf of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Bjørn Jacobsen, Magnar Lund Bergo and myself, I would like to propose a temporary export ban for 12.7 mm of multi-use communication from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e74	The representative of Inger S. Enger will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e77	On behalf of Eli Sollied Överaas, Morten Lund and myself, I would like to propose that the costs of flood prevention and remediation after the floods in South Trundellag and Møre and Romesdal in August 2003, and similar floods, be fully covered by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e83	The representative of Åsa Elvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e86	On behalf of the representatives of Bjørn Jacobsen, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Geir-Ketil Hansen and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to launch further measures against economic crime and environmental crime in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e91	The representative of Morten Lund will make a private proposal – today is Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e94	On behalf of Ola D. Glötvold and myself, I would suggest that exemptions be granted so that joint trips for pensioners with snowmobiles can be arranged in certain cases where this does not lead to environmental damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e99	The representative Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e102	On behalf of the representative May Hansen and myself, I would like to propose that the rates of living of persons under the debt regime be set at 85 p.m. of the minimum pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e107	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e130	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik State Council Svein Ludvigsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e146	I have a question for the Prime Minister. As both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Fisheries are here today in Question Time, it might be interesting to learn more about the Government’s assessments of fisheries policy. Hopefully, there can also be a contribution to the government’s – or prime minister’s – activity in the EU question think-tank. In Sweden, some time ago they tried to protect the Baltic cod stock. However, they have now been informed that they will not be allowed to do so because the EU has taken over the fisheries management for their part. It has now emerged that the EU has decided to increase the cod quota dramatically, from 12 600 tonnes to 75 000 tonnes. In Sweden, they have decided to go against this, but they know that they are not getting through. The information on this situation comes at the same time as one in Norway is upset that Norwegian and Icelandic fishermen are again throwing out fish that they have caught. So we're going to get upset about it and we're going to think that it's a waste of resources. In the EU, discards of fish are required — both from small fish and from what is caught beyond the quota. The question is, quite simply, what does the Prime Minister think of these two issues tell us about the EU fisheries management and the EU fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e157	Since there are such detailed questions about Swedish regulations in this area, and since the representative said that it might be interesting to get the views of both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Fisheries, I allow myself to leave this question to the present Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e162	It's completely legal, but the Prime Minister shouldn't have spent that long explaining it. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e165	These are complicated questions. It is true, as the questioner says, that we in Norway have a draft ban, while there is a draft directive in the EU. Here there is a distinction between Norway’s and the EU’s fisheries policy on the resource side in a very central area. We are not satisfied on the Norwegian side with the resource management provided by the EU, either in the Baltic Sea or in the North Sea. But it is important to bear in mind that the cod stock in the Barents Sea is a completely different strain, which is also in a completely different situation from that of the Baltic and North Sea tribes. We record the discussion that is now taking place along the coast, about the EU and Norway. For the Government, we assume that the relationship we have with the EU is what is in force. And we take it that one of the main reasons why there has been resistance in the fishing industry to EU membership has been related to resource management.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e174	As the Centre Party does not see this as detailed fisheries issues, but as crucial issues in terms of fisheries management and resource control, I will try to raise a follow-up question to the Prime Minister. What is now happening in relation to Sweden clearly shows that Sweden has lost complete control of its national fisheries management. The EU has decided that there is no peace and that quotas should be increased dramatically, despite the fact that all technical advice is going in the opposite direction. The EU has a principle of draft directives on which we are indignant. The question to the Prime Minister is: It might be interesting to know how the Prime Minister views the type of resource management and whether the conditions mentioned in relation to resource control and management will affect his place and activity in the EU membership think-tank.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e183	As the Minister for Fisheries said, we are critical of the EU's administrative requirements, and we disagree with this specific point on drafts. In terms of control of the fisheries management, it was one of the arguments I think both Marit Arnstad and I had when we voted no in 1994. We know that there is a discussion about the view of membership – we record it – in fisheries circles, where there are still significant differences between those responsible for the fishing industry and the export interests, and those who stand in the boat and fish daily. However, the very result that Norway achieved or did not achieve in terms of fisheries management was one of the reasons why I voted no in 1994. It's not a secret.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e190	There will be follow-up questions. There are four representatives who want follow-up questions. The President allows this, but makes explicit mention that follow-up questions must be relevant to the main issue. First Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e194	I'm sure I'll be able to meet that, because this is a very interesting topic. It is true, as the Prime Minister says, that parts of Coast Norway now have a somewhat different view of Norway’s relationship with the EU. My follow-up question also goes to the Prime Minister, because it must be possible to answer something as general for a country like Norway as it is in resource management and fisheries policy, and then until those degrees depend on good resource control. When the cod in the Barents Sea is in a different constitution than the cod in the North Sea, it is not least the resource management that we have in Norway and that we have had. My question to the Prime Minister is brief: Does the Prime Minister think it would be acceptable for Norway to be part of the EU's fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e203	I record that there are a number of different views along the coast, including: a new position has been reached by the President of the Central Party in Troms. We are following this debate with interest. For my part, I am not satisfied with the EU fisheries management policy. And if and when there was to be a new debate on Norwegian membership and any negotiations on it, in my view this would be a very central point. I think the management we have of our fishing resources is more reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e210	Åsa Elvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e213	My follow-up question also goes to the Prime Minister. Both the questioner, the Prime Minister and I are opposed to Norwegian EU membership. EU fisheries policy is one of the main reasons for this. In the debate under the NRK programme Focus, there is no claim that discards of fish are not so bad because they are allowed in the EU. In Norway, we have zero tolerance when it comes to discarding fish. It seemed good to me that central members of the Government have signalled, even though we can discuss the effort. But we'll come back to that later. With the Prime Minister signaling that he is a bit in the mind box when it comes to possible future Norwegian EU membership, I could imagine challenging the Prime Minister whether he believes it is realistic that we are allowed to keep Norwegian fisheries management through any EU membership, or whether it is not enough for us to accept the EU's poor fisheries management.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e222	That's enough too soon to have a fixed opinion of. Norway has not applied for membership and is therefore not involved in negotiations on it. If that happens, this will be a key point. I would like to point out that a keen EU supporter, such as the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, has also stated that fisheries management is a very important issue in connection with any Norwegian membership. He has also expressed his clear, critical position on the EU's management policy as a member of the European Union. The fact that Norway would have a 100 per cent impact on its administrative policy in the event of negotiations cannot be assumed. The decisive thing is what result you have to achieve. But, in my view, today's EU governance policy is not good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e229	Lodve Solholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e232	Then maybe the prime minister should get out of the tank and be a little bit active. We have heard in recent times that the EU is perhaps about to change some of its policies when it comes to this with drafts, that one has thoughts of going away from having a draft directive, which we are all aware of – at least here on our edges – is a misunderstanding and a poor management of resources, and that the EU may be about to introduce our way, that it should be a provision for drafts. Then my question is: Will there be any initiative from the Government – or from the Norwegian foreign policy side – to make the EU change exactly that level? If we could make the EU change its fisheries management before any application for membership, it would be positive. Is it possible that we can influence it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e241	It may be possible to influence it. I believe that it is important to change EU policy in this area, regardless of the issue of Norwegian membership, because we disagree with the so-called draft policy of the European Union today, and the adverse effects it has is an objective to change it, regardless of whether Norway should be part of the EU or not. Otherwise, I reserve the right to think further on these questions, and I expect that I will not get any criticism from the Progress Party about that, because they have probably raised it to a position that the party does not have a position in the EU case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e246	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e249	We've been upset about the draft, and the TV images we saw are taken up in Iceland, so it's Icelandic draft presented as Norwegian. I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. If the EU Constitution had been passed, we would have received 1 pst. voting rights if we had been a member. Thinks the Minister for Fisheries that the EU would have adopted Norwegian fisheries policy as its policy when we have 1 pst. voting rights? We have a landing order of all fish, while the EU has a draft directive. Does the Minister for Fisheries think that the EU would follow Norway's example?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e256	For the fisheries industry, two aspects of EU membership are central. One is market access to our most important market. The second is resource management and relative stability. The hypothetical questions that the representative raises, without us having applied for membership, and without us in negotiations, are difficult to answer. However, experience shows that Norwegian fisheries management and resource policy have an impact on the EU. We see it in the joint management of some populations in the North Sea, and we see it by involving Norway as an adviser in some areas, not least with regard to this with draft directives and draft bans, where we see that there can be hope for a change in attitude to these issues in the EU, precisely because Norwegian policy is recognised for being more resource-friendly and that we have better resource management than that in the EU. One of the key points in the fisheries industry against EU membership was that there was no satisfaction with resource management.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e262	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e265	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The Pension Commission's report shows that the greatest injustice in the current pension system is between those with a service pension and those without it. Some 900000 added to private business have no form of supplementary pension. For the Workers' Party, it's a goal that everyone should have a service pension in addition to a people's pension. This is also a requirement for a year’s wage settlement. After the Labour Party's view, this is a fair requirement. It is therefore disappointing that the Minister of Finance, among others, in today's economy on 11 February, the LO is asked to drop pension requirements in the year's declaration. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he shares his views with the Minister of Finance, or whether he understands the wish of their organisations to negotiate a more equitable pension scheme in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e274	I agree with the representative Aksensen and the Labour Party that it is an injustice to approx. Today, 900000 workers have no form of occupational pension. Therefore, as well as known representatives of all parties in the Pension Commission, it has been agreed that there will be some arrangement for them. But I will not, as Prime Minister and on behalf of the Government, make the mistake made by the Workers' Party, namely to go into one party's side of a pay settlement that stands at the door. It is as well-known to the parties to conduct these negotiations, and the fact that, in my view, the Workers' Party – contrary to all good practices – throws itself into a pay settlement on the part of one party, illustrates the unfortunateness of the unilateral link between the Workers' Party and one of the social organisations. The report of the Pension Commission has been delivered. It's been sent to the hearing. I hope and believe that as a result of that process it will be a scheme for all the 900,000 people who do not currently have occupational pensions. As you know, a tariff fixing of occupational retirement provision will only cover a small part of all those who do not currently have a scheme. And I hope the representative Akselsen agrees that a scheme should include not only a small part of them that today does not have, but all of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e281	I can't see that the Prime Minister answered my question. I asked if he supported the Minister of Finance's warning to take this up in the year's payroll. If this is the case, the Labour Party will have to throw itself on one side, then in the case of the Finance Minister, who has strongly warned that this will be part of the wage settlement. What is important for the Workers' Party is that we put in place these types of schemes for large parts of Norwegian workers, and we can't help but understand that one should use the first and best opportunity to get started. Because we know that it is also that the Government plays an important role in income policy cooperation, my follow-up question becomes to the Prime Minister whether it is entirely inappropriate for the Government to contribute to unloading the port of the year by also bringing in pension issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e290	Firstly, the finance minister of the radio interview this morning made it clear that he believes that the parties are of course free to take up what they want in a pay settlement and that the pay settlement is to be conducted by the parties. I am surprised that the Labour Party does not respect this important principle. Secondly, Akselsen now said that the Workers' Party was for a large part of the employees to have a system. I think that's too bad ambition. All 900,000 people who don't have a system should get it. As is known, tariff fixing will not ensure all 900000. As far as I know, it will ensure approx. 100000 of 900000. The Pension Commission has thought that all 900,000 should receive, and I agree with that. The Government is open to cooperation in income policy. It is not yet clear what form it should take, and what questions the parties, in that case both parties, will bring to the Government in this way. We want to make a decision about it when it comes, but we don't throw ourselves at the front of one of the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e299	There will be three follow-up questions – first Torstein Rudihagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e302	It is interesting to get some insight into the Government and the Prime Minister’s attitude to service pensions, regardless of pay. As the Prime Minister himself pointed out, 800 000 to 900 000 are today without any form of service pension scheme. There has been a good deal here in Stortinget in recent years when it comes to service pensions, both in terms of performance-based and not least in terms of a defined-in pension scheme, just to make it easier for more people to access it. This is a question that has now been very updated and important. It's important to many. It's been a very important issue in the Pension Commission. The Labour Party has clearly indicated that a compulsory service pension must be introduced, just to meet those who do not currently have such a pension. The question is, does the government recognize that this is a serious problem? And: What are the attitudes and thoughts of the Government regarding how this should be resolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e309	The answer to the last question is yes. This is a big, cold thing to do, a problem and an injustice. That is why we in the Government have said that we want a system for the approx. 900000 people today do not have such a scheme. All the parties in the Commission, including all the government parties, have gone in for it. But then, in my view, there should be a system for everyone and not just for some of them or at worst just for a minority, and that is where I am in doubt about the attitude of the Workers' Party. The accent talked about a system for large parts of them, and tariff fixing will, as you know, include only a minority of the 900,000. The other thing that surprises me a little bit here is that the Workers' Party has said in the past about the Pension Commission, that we have to give ourselves a good time with the work, because we have to see all the questions in one whole. Now a nap out one of the questions and maybe solve it in a way that won't cover all of the 900,000. I think there is something illogical about the Labour Party procedure here. Do you want to see the Pension Commission's position in a whole, or won't you?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e316	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e319	There is a long tradition in Norwegian society that the trade union movement has negotiated agreements that have subsequently been valid for all. The 37,5-hour week and the AFP scheme are two examples of this only from the last ten years' wage settlement. When the Prime Minister now says that his reason for going against this becoming part of the payroll is that it only makes a few, and when he says at the same time that he is for all the 900,000 workers who do not currently have a occupational pension to get it, there is only one logical conclusion to this, and it is that the Government in the follow-up to the Pension Commission will propose compulsory occupational pension. Otherwise, it is not possible to justify the fact that only a few people make a paycheck — if at the same time you feel that this occupational pension scheme should meet all employees. Therefore, a natural follow-up question to the Prime Minister: do I now understand the Prime Minister correctly, and will it mean that a logical follow-up of this will be that the Government will propose compulsory occupational pension for all, and that therefore it is not necessary that it be part of the wage settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e328	Djupedal drew what I said, too far when he made it so that I have gone against the parties taking this up as part of the payroll. I respect the fact that the parties address what they want, and that is what we have not wanted to interfere in, which I understand at least that the Workers' Party is doing. We respect the fact that the wage settlement is going on between the social partners, but we have pointed out the problem that if this is only fixed, it will include a small minority of the 900,000 that do not have today, and I think that is unfortunate. You have to have a system that can cover all 900,000. In fact, government parties have been involved in the suspension of the Pension Commission, which the representatives of the other parties have also done. How this should be designed did not reach an agreement in the Pension Commission. It requires further follow-up work that will now come as a result of the hearing and the work that the Government will do before submitting the case to the Stortinget. Our aim is quite clear, but the regime did not agree with the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e334	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e337	I am pleased that the Prime Minister, unlike the Labour Party, fully respects the right of the parties to choose their own positions in the wage settlement. That the Workers' Party as the LO's extended arm does not do that, we have gradually become accustomed to it. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister announces that the Government will participate – as a participant in the wage settlement – in order to obtain a favourable result for particularly competitive industries. As far as occupational retirement provision is concerned, the Prime Minister agrees with me that if you were to make a statutory compulsory occupational pension for everyone, it would actually be much easier to change the public social security system. The public can charge both employees and employers contributions in the form of employers’ and social contributions, and a uniform system would have been introduced. So if you were to make sure that everyone in the job gets occupational pension, wouldn't it be easier and easier to do it through the public social security system? And: Wouldn't it be that there are different attitudes between employees and employers, and that you have to respect that people have a different view of the pay-pension relationship?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e346	I maintain at least that there should be a system that includes everyone, and then the parties will have to discuss to what extent this will also be part of the wage settlement. I don't want to go into that. How we're going to solve this, I'm not prepared to make any conclusions today, either with regard to the question Carl I. Hagen in that way travels. As you know, part of the disagreement in the Pension Commission is about whether this should be resolved within the public interest or outside or in a combination. What seems fairly clear to me is that it must have a deposit-based element, but the question of whether or not everything should be sorted out in popular terms is one of the questions we will now reserve for us the right to assess also in the light of the hearing opinions we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e353	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e356	I have a question for the Prime Minister about the hospital situation. There are disturbing reports in many areas of Norway, where there are concerns about hospital cuts due to the excessive budget adopted this year following the compromise reached between the Labour Party and the Government Parties, and because our proposals to cancel out significant parts of the hospital debt on the 2003 budget were unfortunately voted down. There are announced cuts and redundancies in the hospitals, not restrictions due to lack of nurses or doctors, but lack of money to pay. This results in cuts and further growth in treatment queues, despite the fact that the country has a huge surplus. Will the Prime Minister promise that the necessary additional appropriations will be provided at the latest in the context of the revised national budget, so that there will be no redundancies and cuts in Norwegian hospitals in 2004?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e365	In order to get a more accurate picture of the situation in Hospital-Norway, I think it is necessary to find out that there has actually been a major improvement for patients in recent years. The number of patients who have waited more than one year is now reduced by 28 000, or more than 75 pst, since the hospital reform was introduced. For those treated, the average waiting time has been reduced by 16 pst. in the course of two years. For those waiting for treatment, the waiting time has been halved to 105 days. So it's been very positive for the benefit of patients. It should come out, because there is a tendency to blackmail the situation, with one-sided emphasis on the problems we have. There has also been a sharp increase in the allocations to Norwegian hospitals — there should be no doubt either — and this has made it possible to achieve these positive results. We still have challenges ahead of us. Regional health enterprises also received increased appropriations for 2004 to continue their record high activity from 2003 and are required to keep their financial balance during 2005. It requires certain changes, and it is not that the hospital structure should be exactly as it has been, in the future. Conversions must be prepared, and I am not prepared to promise on the standing floor all the appropriations that are needed to ensure that there is no change in the hospital system, as Carl I. Hagen now actually invited. What I can promise is that we will normally have a review of the financial situation of health businesses in the revised national budget, including, of course, an assessment of the question of appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e374	As for what has gone much better in Norwegian hospitals, I am fully aware of that. This is due, inter alia, to: the two budgets drawn up with the Progress Party and where input-based funding was first increased to 55 pst. And then 60 pst. I am now talking about 2004 and the alarm signals that are now coming, as a result of the fact that the Workers' Party and the government parties have reduced the ISF from 60 pst. to 40 pst. and exacerbated the economy. It's not the conversion that's going on, there's cuts and redundancies that's been notified in several hospitals. When the Prime Minister says to continue the level of activity, I will show that, as far as I understand, it is very clear that there is no need to increase the activity in hospitals now, despite the fact that there are still patients waiting for treatment! We're in favour of conversion, but it can't be the case that you have to go to the redundancy of assistants, nurses and doctors to secure the budgets, thereby increasing the queues of patients. That is the position we in the Progress Party are taking away from, and it is the position that has been announced for the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e386	The queues have gone down, and I expect that the queues will continue to go down. Of course, in some cases shifts can also mean cutting down and cutting down in some places, which does not necessarily mean that the overall health supply is getting worse. It is the overall health supply that is crucial, and the Progress Party put a lot of emphasis on, when they agreed to this reform, to see the whole country as a whole, and especially within the five regions. It's not that the appropriations increased only in the two years we had agreed with the Progress Party. They've increased significantly in the year we're in now, where we had a deal with the Workers' Party. The government itself has proposed significant increases to the hospital sector. Hagen also incorporated the relationship between input-based funding and basic funding in hospitals. I don't think the numbers that were – 60 pst. on the ISF and 40 pst. on basic funding, which the Progress Party wants to maintain – necessarily the right ones. It created a lot of bias, and it did, among other things. that some important hospital activities and operations that were not so well reported on the ISF could be neglected. We do not want that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e395	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e398	It is quite right, as the Prime Minister says, that the waiting time has fallen dramatically, the queues have become considerably shorter, and there are fewer patients in the hospital corridors. In the 2004 budget, the Labour Party proposed NOK 1 billion more in pure money for hospitals. We got a total of 850 million. kr more divided into two different elements, and we also got the deferred balance sheet requirement. This has greatly improved the economy of hospitals. But we now see that there are plans for the closure of offers, which worry the population very much. Then I would like to ask the Prime Minister: What assessments does the Government now make, when one sees the strong reactions of the population in areas where hospital services now seem to be being reduced? What measures does the Government intend to take to ensure that health services are maintained at a good level?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e407	In the reform of hospitals for which Asmund Kristoffersen was involved, but which in its time voted against, it is well known that regional health companies have a significant right of destination in relation to the structure of Hospital-Norway. But greater decisions are to be made to the Minister of Health. He takes that seriously, and he has also transformed the recommendations of regional health companies into some such issues, in our view of favor for patients and districts. We are now following closely what regional health businesses are planning. Major matters are for the Minister of Health, and he has shown that he takes a stand of his own and does not always follow the position of regional health enterprises. That will also be the case in the future. Then, as I said, we will have a review of this in the revised national budget. I expect that the Labour Party is of those who stand by the budgetary settlements and agreements they have made, perhaps better than others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e417	John I. Alvheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e420	There is a strong consensus in the professional community, including in healthcare companies, that the hospital reform is now in a critical phase. Savings imposed by the majority of Stortingen in the budget conciliation of about Dr 4.5 billion by 2005 will lead to dramatic cuts in treatment provision, including for priority patient groups. This is confirmed by health establishments. Several enterprises have now started to cut off in jobs that will amount to approx. 5 000 until 2005. The management of the regional enterprises so far has, in my view, not been good, which unfortunately has led to a deterioration in the professional situation in hospitals, and this is quite serious. Will the Government consider a different ownership management, possibly considering setting up a state hospital directorate instead of the regional health committees, which are very unstable – two replaced so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e429	I have no particular belief in centralising this through a directorate and abolishing the five regional health companies as a good solution, because those in the regional health companies, after all, are closer to the individual hospital and know the local conditions better than in a central directorate. It surprises me a little bit that the Progress Party, which was so keen on this reform, so soon after it has been launched, will already get away from it at a central point. We do not intend to, but we, and especially those who opposed this reform, will, of course, look with open eyes at all reasonable proposals that had to be made, in order to possibly improve them. In the case of dramatic signals, we've been given it almost every year, even in the years we had budgetary conciliation with the Advance Party on hospital appropriations. But we're taking this seriously, we're going through it in a revised way, and the Minister of Health is taking his own stand on the bigger issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e436	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e439	Sometimes you feel that the hospital debate is not being taken seriously, because what is about to happen is that there is a crisis of trust between the authorities and the population in terms of the hospital services to be provided in the years to come. There is some kind of double communication on this issue that concerns the Center Party. One is that certain changes now mean a concrete closure of the post-departure department and the dismissal of staff in almost all parts of the country. In contravention of all promises, the health business model is used as a disclaimer from state authorities, where one says that health enterprises have the freedom to assess structure, etc. I think we have come into a situation where we either have to say that resources are going to be increased, or must be honest and say that offers will be dropped. One must be sincere and say what it is. We have three challenges for the Prime Minister and the Government: increasing resources, doing something about the debt above health businesses, and also controlling wage growth within health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e450	I agree that resources need to be increased. There is a strong need in the health sector. Resources have increased sharply, and they need to be increased in the future. We are critical of any proposal for the closure of departments, in the worst case also the entire hospital. This does not mean that the structure will necessarily be the same in the future as it has been in the past. There are also examples of good transitions, but there may also be bad examples of them. When it comes to debt depreciation, we don't generally think there's any good solution. Depreciation of debt, whether in the hospital sector or in the municipal sector, is not stimulating good financial management. We have to find other ways to support them. When it comes to controlling wage developments, I agree that this is important. We must have that both in this sector and in the others who are entering the payroll now into spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e461	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e464	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. We heard at the NRC today early on that in 2003 one received only one tip for Økokrim’s tip phone for economic crime and environmental crime. By comparison, the Directorate of Fisheries received 140 tips in 2001, leading to 15 police reports. It goes without saying that one tip cannot lead to 15 police messages. The first thing the Minister of Fisheries did when he became Minister of Fisheries was to put down the so-called fish-fucking phone, with the explanation that he was based on an indication. On the same day as SV and the Labour Party put forward suggestions in Stortinget to restore the phone, we get a press release from Økokrim saying that Økokrim has created a tip phone. So that phone is not based on a statement. What did the Council of State think that Ecokrim's phone doesn't seem to work as well as the directorate's phone did?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e475	In the Department and in the Government, there is zero tolerance in terms of environmental crime and the loss of resources that we have unfortunately had far too much in the industry. At the same time, not least with reference to Trom's police district, we see that the number of cases is falling. Police and prosecution authorities believe that this is the result of an increased focus on this and the other actions undertaken by the Coast Guard and the administration to reduce it. In addition, the industry has focused on ethics. It's true, as it was said, that this tip phone, which was based on the fact that you could have anonymity, was given 140 tips in its time. Unfortunately, it turned out that there was only one in ten tips that led to follow-up and investigation, because the anonymity clearly inspired a number of reviews that were not kept. What we are now seeing is that in 2003 the Directorate for Fisheries has received about a quarter of its daily work. 50 tips that are followed in the further work. The anonymity that at the time was an offer doesn't seem to be a point. The fishermen now dare to stand up with their names and images and report that there is a waste of resources and environmental crime both in the coastal fleet and in the marine fleet. We've taken that into account, and it's going to be followed up, as it's been done to a significant extent since the late 1990s by changing governments and changing state councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e482	I want to think that one police report out of ten tips is pretty much. We have today, on the side of the SV, a proposal on action against financial crime and environmental crime in the fishing industry. We propose, among other things: inspectors, we propose a strengthening of the Coast Guard, inspections on land and some other measures. We have taken it as a starting point that the large majority in the fishing industry is law-abiding. That is why we want to have a review of the legislation, so that one can distinguish what is deliberately cheated for economic gain from what is unconstant violation of some sometimes quite complicated legislation. We believe that there is no reason to wait for action to be taken, as the Minister for Fisheries has done. We also propose an evaluation of Økokrim’s tip phone in conjunction with the phone created by the Directorate of Fisheries, which actually worked. Does the Minister of Fisheries think, in the light of the news today, that Ecokrim's phone does not receive tips, that it is a good idea to evaluate that system?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e491	The measures that the representative Elvik here lists are like cut out of what the Minister of Fisheries and the Government has announced that we are working on. I have also announced that exactly these things that have been taken up here, I will come back to the Storting in the revised national budget, and we will further come back to it in the budget. We have gone even further, because we have set up a special commission with people from the Ministry of Justice who have police, investigation and prosecution powers, the Coast Guard is represented, and we have released the Regional Director of Troms, Arne Luther, who is a capacity in this area, to review and evaluate this and make proposals for further action. The coastguard has already warned that they will intensify the use of the helicopter in order to come as a surprise. So it's a point that both in the coastal fleet and in the sea fishing fleet you think it's a problem that these claims are made. I would like to say that the examples that have been drawn up recently, using images, show that it is foreign ships that are used as an illustration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e499	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bendiks H. Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e502	The recent focus on fish dumping has shown that the current tipping system has not worked enough. I understand that those who have stood up in another way and have indicated that this dumping has taken place are now at risk of being or perhaps have been notified of this. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries: how will this work for the future? Can you expect to get new tips when people who see the madness in this and report it are at risk of being reported? Is it not true that this dumping from boats is really the responsibility of shipowners and skippers, and that the fishermen employed on board must thus be free?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e507	As I said, there's zero tolerance in this field. That's exactly the tip system that we have now, which shows that this works. The Directorate received approx. 50 tips through their daily work, and everyone is assessed as a basis for pursuing matters. So, with the support of this zero tolerance approach, we report the issues that we become familiar with, regardless of who, through investigation, prosecution and judgment, had to be convicted. We believe that police, prosecution and justice should decide, not politicians. I record that fishermen stand out from the recognition that this can lead to criminal liability. But I also remember what the First State Attorney at Troms has explained, that all experience shows that the law is both meant to be and to be handled in such a way that it is the shipping companies and the skippers who are responsible, and not the individual fisherman, so an amnesty is in itself no basis for wanting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e514	Inge Ryan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e517	I think it's important to stress that all, most fishermen are honest businessmen. For some years in politics, I have had the pleasure of traveling around the country and meeting some of these fishermen, both in the boat and in meetings. Some of the things that have struck me, is that this is a problem they have raised again and again. They've seen that there's such a lot of fish jacks going on, as one of the biggest challenges they've ever had. That's why I was surprised that the alarm went in the department after a TV show, and that you haven't been aware of these major problems before. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: wasn't he aware that there were so many fish-juxes? Did it have another TV show before he reacted as strongly as he did?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e522	I also take as my starting point that these are honest people, and that's why I'm afraid that the focus that some people might have on this for more political reasons helps to label many honest fishermen unwarranted. When we reacted as we did after the current TV program, it was not because we had not had any pressure on this before, nor was it because there was anything new. But when it was claimed in the public that an estimated 191,000 tonnes of cod were projected in the Barents Sea by trawlers, it was surprising. The subsequent experience shows that there is no hold in it. The estimate made by the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea includes trawlers, it includes the coastal fleet, it includes the pelagic sector, and it also includes species which are not subject to criminal penalties. That's the one. The second is that this is a problem which is not particularly linked to trawlers, but also relates to the coastal fleet, and it has also been explained by fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e529	Lodve Solholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e532	I'm glad that the state council doesn't stigmatise fishermen like notorious waitresses, like some in this room. There are some who are exposed, and of course they should be punished. But what surprises me a little bit is that when the Council of State says that there is zero tolerance for drafts, which I totally agree with, one at a time will give an amnesty to those who stand up and say that they have thrown fish on purpose and even without knowing it on the bride, as was said in the current TV program. But one will go to the step that one will report to the naval team. Doesn't the Council of State see that this is comparable to police reporting the shopkeeper when they add stables?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e537	In my handling of this matter, both after the programme in question updated it, and earlier, I tried not to stigmatise. This program stigmatized the trawlers and the trawlers in a very unfortunate way, but in a priceless way, two Norwegian fishermen stood out and reported on the situation as they experienced it. The program used pictures of Spanish and Icelandic vessels, but one had to get the impression that Norwegian boats were throwing fish out. It has proved not to be the case in retrospect. In the case of amnesty and review, we report matters. We then have confidence that the police through their investigation and justice will decide who is responsible, and who is not responsible, that they will separate the clint from the wheat. I think it is a fundamental principle that we politicians should not be the judges. I think that someone should have remembered the warning that both the representative Lodve Solholm and I have come with from time to time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e544	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e547	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Ever since the Stortinget decriminalized homosexuality among men in 1972, the Christian People's Party has opposed all proposals to improve the quality of life of homosexuals and lesbians. There are many examples. Let me just mention someone: the Christian People's Party said no to the partnership law in 1993. Today’s Prime Minister promoted just after a private bill to repeal the Partnership Act, which fortunately did not get a majority. In 1996, the Storting re-examined proposals for the repeal of the Partnership Act, also promoted by our current Prime Minister. Now we're in 2004. Does the Prime Minister accept that the gay and lesbian partnership law has come to stay?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e557	Firstly, it is completely wrong that the Christian People's Party has fought against proposals to improve the living conditions of those homosexuals. On the contrary, we have increased cooperation between the public and non-governmental organisations working among homosexuals to take action in order to strengthen their health and prevent suicide, strengthen social networks, prevent drug use. We have strengthened the voluntary organisations that are working to improve the quality of life and the quality of life of lesbians and gays. We have focused in particular on the voluntary work of young people. We have focused on information measures at school, which contribute to the self-respect of students, including those gays. A separate help phone for gay and lesbians has been started. We have proposed a tightening of the Working Environment Act in order to improve protection against discrimination due to sexual orientation. The debate that has taken place in the last few days raises important principles of freedom of belief, freedom of organisation and tolerance. The matter is up-to-date on religious and organisational freedom, and I think that central workers' party politicians have shown frightening attitudes and not the necessary respect for it. It updates the freedom and rights of homosexuals in society. The homosexuals are a minority who are entitled to respect as human beings and for the choices they have made, and the Prime Minister respects their choices. It must also be possible to have different views on how this is regulated by legislation. The majority of the population have decided to do so by means of the Partnership Act. The Christian People's Party, and also, at the time, large parts of the Right Party and the Center Party, voted to regulate it by means of the Community law, in order to preserve the positive status of marriage in our view should have in the law. It is not discrimination against the homosexuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e564	I think it's a little sad that the Prime Minister doesn't take this question any more seriously, because in these days, quite a number of gay and lesbian unrestrained and tired of the signals coming from the Christian People's Party and from the country's prime minister. The series is long with examples of things where the Christian People's Party has made it more difficult for homosexuals and lesbians – from saying no to informing about it in school, no to providing financial support, no to the Partnership Act and last, but not least to say no to having homosexuals and lesbians have access to married positions in the Church. That is why I think the Prime Minister should be a little cautious about accusing the Workers' Party of having frightening views on this matter. We've gone ahead, and we're actually quite proud of that. I also record that the Prime Minister does not answer my question. This is about human dignity and equivalency. Why is it this way, Prime Minister, that not gay and lesbians have demands for as much human dignity and equality as any other human being?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e571	Homophiles, of course, claim exactly the same human dignity and equality as other people. To accuse me of the opposite shows a lack of respect for the position of others to legislation and a lack of tolerance. I think that when you talk about not taking this more seriously, Sylvia Brustad is going to engage in a dialogue with his own party traps, which are obviously out to label others, make false claims, and which in the debate have revealed that they have no respect for religious freedom. Fortunately, the leader of the Workers' Party has distanced himself from this. But former Councillors of Brustad have intended that one should use both economic and legal sanctioning instruments — they have at least suggested it — to force organisations to take a different position from what they have. It is also wrong that we have opposed economic instruments to improve the living conditions of homosexuals and lesbians. On the contrary, we've increased these. But we have respect for the right of self-determination of church societies on such issues, even though the Workers' Party has not always had it. It's part of the tolerance, and it must be allowed to have different views on the regulation of these issues, without being added to such misconceptions as Sylvia Brustad has now tried. I demand some respect in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e580	Then the president allows one follow-up question – Siri Hall Arnøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e583	The Prime Minister is talking about respect and tolerance. A central point in relation to respect for minorities is that minorities themselves need to define their needs and desires and set some standards for what it is to show tolerance and respect. In view of the issue raised by Sylvia Brustad on the Partnership Act, the gay and lesbians have been aware of their desire for equal treatment in relation to marriage, either through partnership law or through marriage law. When the Prime Minister points out that, in his view, marriage should have a positive special status in the law, I wonder if he can give a reason for that – preferably a reason that is not, of course, theological but political. And if it is that the gay and lesbians think that this is a question of human dignity, to what extent does the Prime Minister think it is tolerant not to accept a minority's own view of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e590	I record and respect that the gay people, at least through their organisations, want a partnership law. But it can't be that if you don't follow exactly the regulatory pattern that someone's asking for, it's a discriminatory one. It's a form of debate that I think one should think carefully through. One of the reasons why the Christian People's Party voted against the Partnership Act was that, as has been shown, it would also lead to a claim for full adoption rights for homosexuals and lesbians. Our opinion is that this is not a reasonable claim, because the starting point here is not to be a right, but the children's situation. We base that on politics, and there are, as far as I know, many more than the Christian People's Party who believe in the issue of adoption. And having a policy where marriage is a basic cell in society is not something special for either the Christian People's Party or Norway – it's actually recognised internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e597	The president's sorry, but the time is fast, and it's over 11. So the time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e603	Unfortunately, there will be a large number of changes in the list of questions set out, and in this context the President refers to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. Since ten state councils are on the move, it will necessarily mean significant changes. For its part, the President wants to say that there are remarkable numbers, and hopes that the Prime Minister will take note of it. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 2 from the representatives of Ranveig Frøiland and Morten Lund respectively to the Minister of Finance will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 6, from the representative Arne Lyngstad to the Minister for Justice, has been withdrawn. Question 9, by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, representing the Minister for Justice, has been withdrawn. Questions 15 and 17 from Arne Sortevik and Lena Jensen, respectively, to the Minister for Education and Research, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 16, from the representative Bente Gunn Håtfuft to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has left. Question 20, from the representative, Mr Hedstrom, to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be transferred to the Minister for Fisheries, who will direct him. Question 21, from the representative Heidi Sørensen to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 24, from the representative of Åslaug Haga to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Dagfinn Sundsbø. Question 25, from the representative Heikki Holmås to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 26, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister of Defence, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 27 and 28, from the representatives of Mr Inger S. Enger and Mr Steinar Bastesen, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Justice, the questions are moved and answered in response to question 8, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 29, from the representative of Mr Ingvild Vaggen Malvik to the Minister for the Environment, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e659	These questions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e666	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘Many general practitioners were able to double their income overnight when the reform was introduced. In particular, this was the case in smaller outlying municipalities. The permanent reform shall be evaluated in the current year. Will the Council of State then ensure that pay and employment agreements with the permanent staff are also reviewed and renegotiated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e680	The introduction of the fixed medical scheme changed the income conditions of general practitioners. The main changes relate to the following aspects: The former fixed operating grant to doctors with a municipal operating agreement was replaced by basic grants linked to the number of members of the doctor’s list. Some of the former permanent pay doctors became self-employed. A compensation scheme was introduced for permanent residents in municipalities with up to 5000 inhabitants. Neither social security nor community expenditure on general medical services has increased dramatically in the context of the reform. The reimbursement costs were slightly lower than expected in each of the first two years of the fixed medical scheme. In January, the Central Statistical Agency provided an analysis of the costs of the community to the general medical service before and after the reform, which also does not provide the basis for such a conclusion. At the same time, it is clear that both the conversion of the financial instrument, with the introduction of basic grants by list length, and the principle of free choice of permanent staff by residents, have led to certain redistribution of doctors within the overall income framework. This was known in advance, and was mentioned in the presentation of the Reform for the Storting. But if there are doctors who have doubled their income in this regard, I think it is safe to assume that they have also expanded their practice significantly. Especially for smaller municipalities it is that they have a significant proportion of fixed-paid doctors. This was even more the case before the reform. For permanent pay doctors, pay and working conditions are determined on the basis of collective agreements concluded between the Municipal Councils of the Central Association and the Medical Association, which I have no opportunity to intervene in. The compensation scheme for self-employed doctors in municipalities with up to 5000 inhabitants provides these doctors with a higher basic grant than that resulting from the length of the list. The purpose of this scheme is primarily to counteract the decrease in income that could otherwise result from the replacement of the fixed operating grant by a basic grant per. is included in the list. Through a look-up in the media, I am aware that some municipalities and doctors have concluded local agreements in addition to what has been agreed centrally. In that case, it is the responsibility of each municipality. The permanent scheme is subject to ongoing follow-up and a five-year research-based evaluation. The first research reports have been completed. For the time being, it is my clear impression that the reform must be able to be described as successful overall. The economic aspects of the reform contribute to this impression. In the spring, negotiations will normally be held between the State, the Municipal Council of Local Councils and the Medical Association on tariffs and basic subsidies for permanent workers, and between the Municipal Councils of Central Councils and the Medical Association on pay and working conditions for permanent workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e705	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was not very clarifying in relation to my angle. It is true that nothing has become more expensive either for the country or the municipality, but for the patients the fixed medical system has become significantly more expensive, and I will come back to it. According to the Municipal Report of Thursday 15 January, it is claimed that, in addition to lucrative wage agreements in relation to list patients, a number of municipalities have also made free offices available to the permanent staff. This happened at a time when the medical coverage was quite low in the municipalities, and this was of course used during the negotiations with the state on financial conditions. Does the Minister of Health see today that at an earlier stage the state and the municipalities were perhaps too generous in terms of both fixed salary, office rent and limited medical care arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e716	Let me first state that I do not find cover for the claims that the fixed medical system has led to more expensive solutions, in the material that I have referred to in my first answer. Secondly, I would like to point out that the arrangements implemented as a basis for the implementation of the reform need to be understood in the light of the situation we had before the reform was introduced. There were at some point 600 primary medical positions available in the primary health service. It was a major question whether a nationwide fixed medical system would be able to be implemented at all, and there was great scepticism among the doctor to enter into fixed medical agreements. I believe that the moves you made were right, and the fact that we now have a nationwide fixed medical system is the best expression for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e723	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that the doctors were satisfied when they could be purchased for a regular job. For the individual patient, the fixed medical system has become far more expensive than intended, and a number of additional attributes were introduced at the last budgetary conciliation for patients that I believe are deeply unfair and unsustainable. Telephone enquiries are now subject to a proportion of 85 kroner, 21 kroner have been allocated to consultation and medical visits, and a higher proportion is paid for the doctor if he/she is a specialist in social medicine. I find it completely meaningless that if I happen to have a regular doctor who is a specialist in general medicine, I will pay more than another patient who does not have this type of doctor, whom he has not asked for either. Furthermore, in my opinion, it is immoral for both the Government and the Medical Association to impose greater peculiarities on the chronically ill to reach agreement on tariff issues with the Norwegian Medical Association. Will the Minister of Health fix this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e734	The representative Alvheim serves as a smith when he accuses the Medical Association and the Department of the excesses introduced in recent years. The representative Alvheim knows very well that it is Stortinget who takes a position on the level of the excesses, and then it is negotiated with the Norwegian Medical Association on the device. Having said that, I have made it clear in the past in the Storting that the introduction of probabilities in the middle of the contract period – as the Stortinge decided to do in the context of the budgetary agreement for the current year – is very demanding. This is because there are very few degrees of freedom as to which components you can adjust. Therefore, in dialogue with the Norwegian Medical Association, to which I have taken the initiative, I would like to return to changes in the self-promotion in the light of the experience we have with some of the measures that the representative Alvheim now mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e747	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘There is currently a distorted distribution of funds between the five different health regions, where Health West receives significantly less than the population and other important factors should indicate. What is the Council of State going to do to correct this distributional bias in the allocation of appropriations to health businesses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e756	The government already set up a sample in winter 2002 to seek out a new funding system for the specialist healthcare service. The selection was led by Professor Terje Hagen. The Hagen Committee presented its position on 17 December 2002. In the context of the submission of the 2004 State Budget, a separate monitoring report, St.meld, was also submitted in the light of the suspension of the Hagen Committee. No 5 for 2003-2004, Income system for specialist health services. The notification was addressed by Stortinget on 16 December last year. The main communication on the income system explains that there are some significant differences in both state transfers and cost levels between the five regional health enterprises. It appears from the notification that if a country were to be fully allocated to transfers according to the criteria proposed by the Hagen Committee, it would result in greater redistribution than is advisable in the view of the Government. The Communication therefore proposed a model in which both the weighted criteria proposed by the Hagen Committee and the current distribution of revenues to regional health businesses were weighted. This arrangement was widely accepted by the Committee, including by the party from which the representative Nordtun comes. A Joint Committee also agreed with the Government's proposal to grant Health Nord a separate supplement within the overall framework of transfers. I would also like to point out that an overall committee agreed that the conversion would only start in 2005 with a phase-in over five years, similar to that used in the income system for the municipal sector. There are a great many factors affecting the use of resources in specialist health services. The scheme now chosen by the Storting changes the allocation of resources in the direction indicated by the cost keys, while also placing some emphasis on the current distribution. This means that there will be a balancing from 2005 onwards where Health West will have increased transfers compared to earlier at the expense of other regions that will need to adapt to lower transfers than today. In implementing large-scale reconversions of funding systems, it is important to focus on the consequences of the overall provision of services in the country. In my view, the decisions and decisions taken in this case are a good balance between the concerns of individual regions and the consideration that we should be able to offer an equivalent offer in all parts of the country. Finally, I would like to recall that the Communication proposes that the emphasis between the current distribution of income and cost keys be re-assessed at the end of the transitional period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e769	I thank the Minister for the answer. I think it was a good review. It is true, as the minister says, that in the debate on St.meld. No On December 5th, in the Workers' Party, we agreed to the step-up proposed. But I would also like to stress that the representative of the Workers' Party who had the main inauguration expressed itself quite clearly and pointed out very strongly that the Health Region of the West came out very unfavorably, and that perhaps there had to be a faster escalation than until 2010. I note that the Minister now says that one begins the escalation in 2005. But I would like to ask the Minister: what is he adding to that escalation? How big will it be? Should it be accelerated, so that it will be a shorter escalation than until 2010, i.e. Five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e776	I am dealing with the Storting's report and the handling of it. It has been suggested that a conversion will take place, among other things. for the benefit of the Health West, that it will start its conversion in 2005 and that it will take five years. I have said here today that I believe that once that conversion has taken place, a new assessment of the distribution criteria has to be made based on the situation you then have. I feel this is in line with both the message and the handling of the Storting, and that is the task I have to carry out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e781	We see that the Health West also has major problems with its economy, in balancing. It probably won't happen, at least not in the first few years. This goes to the degrees beyond the offer. Once again, I ask the Minister of Health: could he imagine a faster escalation plan to align with the criteria that otherwise apply to this region, when we see what the economy is giving?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e786	When the Government has submitted a case to the Stortinget and proposed a conversion plan and an emphasis on different criteria, and the Stortinget agrees with it as late as just before Christmas last year, it would have been most perceptive if the Council of State had come to the Stortinget in February and said that he had come up with different thoughts than the Stortinget had given its consent. I'm going to carry out what Stortinget has decided. As I said, health regions other than Health West will have to adapt to something less resource than they would otherwise have, and Health West will have something more than they would otherwise have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e795	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘In Arendal, money collection is under way to realise the establishment of the PCI Centre at Sørlanden Hospital Arendal. [[heart centre]] It has previously been decided that the PCI Centre should be located at Sørlanden Hospital Arendal, but lack of money makes the establishment more difficult. What does the Council of State think that hospitals in Norway have to go on beggaring to raise money for investments in vital medical functions as a heart centre, and can the Norwegian health service be familiar with having to start people's reactions in order to beg for money?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e804	Let me make it clear that it is public responsibility to finance healthcare in Norway. The financing of the specialist health service is structured through the hospital reform to support the so-called ‘care for’ responsibilities of regional health enterprises, i.e.: a responsibility for providing the necessary specialised health services to the population in the health region. It involves an overall liability system, which shall not be based on alternative sources of income or allow for speculation. That said, we've seen several times that people give gifts of money for individual purposes in Norwegian hospitals. Gifts can in this context only be a supplement to, and never a substitute for, the responsibilities of the public. The law does not contain any specific prohibition on the taking of gifts by the undertakings receiving them, but it can be deduced from some provisions of the law that gifts are not unproblematic. It will be the individual health-care provider who will have to assess the extent to which it would be desirable and appropriate to receive financial support from non-governmental organisations through the ordinary financial system. Gifts must not be given in such a form as to make them, in effect, a kind of self-payment for services to be provided without self-interest, such as hospital treatment for inpatients. Gifts must be in a form or context which does not violate the principle laid down in both the Health Business Act and the Special Health Service Act, that patients should be given an equivalent service offer regardless of their place of residence or economy. The imposition of equivalent services must also form the basis for structural planning. It is not in accordance with this principle if an entity is influenced by gifts of money in planning where the service is to be located. We have several examples of keeping collection and giving gifts to health services. However, I assume that health care companies show sufficient caution in accepting any donations of money. The premise for the question from the representative Torbjørn Andersen is that the economic situation in 2004 almost necessitates beggar behaviour for health businesses. I would also like to comment briefly on this. There is no doubt that health businesses face economic challenges in the coming period and that strict priority requirements must be imposed. On the other hand, the situation must not be painted black. I remind you that in recent years there has been an increase in access to resources for healthcare companies, which has provided a basis for significant growth in patient treatment and a joyful reduction in waiting times. The 2004 budget provided for the continuation of the activity at approximately the same level as in 2003. A very high level of investment was also facilitated in 2004. This fact cannot be underestimated, although a large part of the investment resources will go to the new major projects that are now under way. We have a good specialist health service in Norway. It shall be improved by means of public resources. Therefore, I believe that Health South takes care of its responsibility for the people of the region and, in this context, makes the necessary economic priorities in relation to any investment needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e819	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I believe there is reason to ask this question, because it concerns both trust and credibility in the Norwegian health care system. In this particular case, an important cardiac offer has been adopted at the hospital in Arendal. But then you'll hear that there's not enough money over the public budgets to realize this establishment. Now, of course, it's positive for this case in isolation, that a collection operation is initiated to scrape together these necessary 10 million. kr in order to try to realise this establishment anyway. I certainly believe that if the Norwegian health care system is to become more and more dependent on collection actions in order to carry out important adopted medical tasks, this is a development we must consider to be not desirable. And that's how I understood it, also the Council of State agrees?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e830	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e835	Would you like to invite someone to comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e838	That was a short answer. I would like to add that, in my view, it is almost for a failure statement to count when the Norwegian health service seems to be dependent on money collection actions in order to carry out important tasks that the public itself has decided to do. We cannot live with such a system if the public health service is to maintain its credibility and trust in the future. I ask again: does the Minister of Health not agree that the problem of lack of money and collection actions can actually help to weaken both the trust and the credibility of the Norwegian public health system?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e847	If it had been the case that Andersen’s representative had been right in describing that Norwegian hospitals are totally dependent on going on beggaring for donors in connection with operations and investments, I would have agreed that we have a formidable problem. But as I see it, that's not the situation. I have expressed my principle view of the gift question. I have also expressed my view of what is a public responsibility. Building a heart centre in Arendal is a clear public responsibility that Health South has assumed, and which I assume they find room for in their budgets in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e862	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e868	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Eidsvoll Dietsrecht has given judgment in the case between Landowners and Oslo Airport AS on the compensation for noise pollution. Some of the applicants were ordered to pay compensation, others were lost and have to pay the costs, which would make appeals impossible. Judicial review is one of the pillars of the legal society. It is particularly important when the country is either directly or indirectly a counterparty. Does the Council of State see the dilemma of the legal society when large costs of action may prevent a case from being tried further in the judiciary?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e877	I am aware of the problem raised by the representative, and see the level of costs as a serious challenge to civil matters. As Minister of Justice, I cannot comment on the matter raised by the representative, but in general, I would like to say that it is a prerequisite for a well-functioning legal system that the level of costs does not prevent ordinary people from trying their case before the court. As long as our judicial system allows for review in several instances, it is also important that citizens have equal opportunities to use this access, regardless of their financial capacity. It is important that the legal resources made available by the public to resolve legal disputes are used in the best possible way. It means that it is important for society and for our common sense of justice that justice deals with matters in a trusting way. This is a challenge and a balancing approach that is demanding but at the same time very important. The Rules of Procedure of the Dispute Settlement Act also provide important considerations. The person who loses completely risks having to pay the costs of the winning party with the case. If a matter is so doubtful that in any case there was good reason to raise a case, the court can decide that the winner must nevertheless cover his own costs. This is in typical cases that can be the basis for appeals, and where the cost question doesn't get so burdensome. The rules of procedure are the same regardless of who is a party to the case. It would not be desirable to have separate and favourable rules of procedure for private actions against the public. The Committee on Disputes under the leadership of our current Supreme Justice, Tore Schei, has also not proposed any such specific rules in its position, NOU 2001:32. In my opinion, if you are to ensure that the civil servant has easier and cheaper access to the justice system – with real appeal – it has to be done through other rules. The free legal aid system has such a set of rules. On application to the county council, the costs to the counterparty may be covered in exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e892	This was reasonably general. I guess so. The council mentioned a few things that I want to grips with, and then I will try to get back to this particular matter. First, there is equal opportunities and the costs of the case, that there is a difference between the costs of the case and the costs of the case. It is clear that I agree with the Council of State that this should not be the case. But my question was quite concrete: When the state is a counterparty, is it important that people have a feeling that it is possible to try the matter further in the legal system? It is particularly important that people have this opportunity when the public at large is a counterparty, just to stress that they have equal opportunities. In the specific case, the costs are large. It is a comprehensive and large case in which the State is indirectly a counterparty. My very specific question is: Is it important in this case that those who have not received support from the first court have an opportunity to try the matter further in the judiciary?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e901	I think the representative is aware that I cannot comment on matters that are before the court. In principle, Ministers of Justice do not. If you go into the nucleus, the counterparty can be a large public body. It may also be a large private instance. So the general rules of the game, such as: The dispute resolution committee pulled up, I'm standing by. We can look at what the cost is. The costs may be due to legal fees. We have different tools to control the calculation of salaries. A salary calculation may be made by the Disciplinary Board if it receives a complaint from the client under the Law of the Court of Justice. The party may also ask the court to determine the salary of its lawyer in accordance with the provisions of Section 52 of the Law on Disputes. I have also said earlier in the Questionnaire that I am following up the investigation from the Committee of Lawyers, where the central question is, among other things. is whether and to what extent it is necessary to allow legal aid activities other than lawyers to be carried out in addition to the current system. I am, of course, concerned about going into the cost side. I am now commenting on one set of tools to look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e912	I'll try to go a little further when I have the opportunity. If you have a case in which the State is a public counterparty, and get a judgment in the first court – completely independent of this case – where it turns out that there has been some doubt, that someone has received support and others have not, and that those who have lost in the first court clearly say that they have no opportunity to go further because the costs are so great, do citizens have equal opportunities, as the Council of State strongly emphasised? If they don't, we can do something to give them an opportunity to try the case further in the legal system, so they have a sense that they've been treated fairly, because that's what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e919	The principle of the representative's consideration is affected by the major civil dispute investigation, the dispute investigation. In this regard, it is considered that there should be proportionality between the importance of the dispute in question and the scope of the proceedings. The committee also proposes a small claim process for dealing with claims where the amount of the dispute is not higher than twice the basic amount of the public interest. There is also a proposal for a ceiling on compensation for expenses to lawyers in these cases. In general, to address the basic principles that the representative illustrates, I would like to have an eye on the level of costs when I consider the proposal of the Dispute Goals Committee for new rules on costs. It is the civil process that is at the heart of the representative's consideration. The Committee on Disputes wishes to modernise the civil procedure, precisely in order to speed up the procedure and to make the procedure more fair. The reasons that the representative has raised, I will take with me when I work on the matter, which Stortinget will be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e930	‘A large number of persons and vessels are present in Inner Oslofjord. Responsibilities for fire protection are distributed between several municipalities according to the location of the accidents. Although there is an older assistance agreement between municipalities, there is no comprehensive emergency plan to ensure rapid and good assistance in the event of a fire arising from passenger transport or pleasure boat. Does the Council of State think the emergency situation of today is good enough?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e937	At regular intervals, Norway has experienced transport disasters that we would prefer to have ahead of us. The representative, Kampestad, points to one type of incident that imposes particularly high demands on the intervention teams, namely fire on board a ship at sea. Whatever the type and size of the vessel, it is such that it is those on board that must be the first bet. It follows from an international legislation and regulation of 9 May 2003 No. 687 on qualification requirements and certification ratings for personnel on Norwegian ships, fishing and catching vessels and mobile devices, the safety training of personnel on ships in commercial operations. Survival techniques, fire protection and firefighting are key elements of this training. Land-based fire services may not or shall not be the first effort in the case of fires on ships in space, but they have an obligation to provide assistance in the event of fire or other marine casualty situations, pursuant to the Fire and Explosive Protection Act, § 11 g. If the captain considers that the ship's own crew will not be able to handle the fire alone, the request for assistance will be made via the Main Rescue Centre. The main rescue facility considers a shipboard fire to be a rescue operation and the available resources will be required to provide assistance. This implies that one is not dependent on municipal agreements. Municipalities which have regular ship calls and special calls for passenger ships will, as a result of the general duty obligation, exercise their fire service on fire and accident scenarios in ships. In addition, five municipalities have specially trained response groups intended for fire on board ships at sea. This concerns Oslo, Larvik, Kristiansand, Bergen and Bodø. Annual drills are carried out, and for the fire services in Oslo and Larvik, the drill also involves helicopter transport to the ship. Today, only a specific agreement has been concluded with the fire service in Larvik, but the other fire services have also received support in the form of specifically earmarked means of training and training. The RITS marine rescue system shall be evaluated during 2004. Based on the information I have received, I believe that we can establish that the fire safety on board ships has never been better than it is today. The organisational conditions of ships have been strengthened and all passenger ships are covered by stationary fire-fighting systems, sprinklers. It will necessarily take some time before assistance from countries can be estimated. In some cases one could also be outside the helicopter range. In the case of preparedness for fire in vessels in Inner Oslofjord, the fire service in Oslo, Larvik and Kristiansand is well trained to deal with these types of situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e952	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that each municipality is initially responsible for its maritime area. As I understand it, each municipality organises its own fire preparedness. Nor can I see that there is some sort of overview of the total resources that can be put at the disposal if a larger fire could happen. Would it not be appropriate that in such a densely populated area as Inner Oslofjord had wanted a comprehensive plan to identify what resources are available, and how they can most appropriately be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e961	I have just explained the division of responsibilities, and that the primary responsibility of a fire on a ship lies on the ship itself, which is to be prepared for it – that is a requirement for the ship – and then land-based crews will come to the aid. I have just stated that we have such specialised resources in Oslo and Larvik, and if necessary – if it is far off in Oslofjord – also in Kristiansand. It's been practiced, and I've recently been to Oslo Brannvesen, who's told me about his arrangement in such a context. To make sure that such a rescue effort at sea is the best possible, we are going to evaluate the arrangements, as I said, during this year. I want to make sure we don't have grey zones. It is also the case that helicopter preparedness in Oslo is strengthened, for example. after the ‘Scandinavian Star’ disaster, which led us to think again in many areas. That was when the Fire Service's obligation to provide assistance at sea came into the Fire Act, and that was when we got rescue efforts to the marine groups, as a result of the accident. After that, we also received a reinforcement of helicopter standby on Rygge. We have also received a co-location of the Main Rescue Center and Coastal Radio, i.e. the Main Rescue Center for South Norway, and among others. the effectiveness of the ‘Rocknes’ accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e968	Regardless of whether the ships have primary responsibility or not, I assume that the municipalities are required to provide assistance because you see that this may be necessary. But as I understand the Council of State, the Council of State believes that, for example. the municipalities of Asker, Bærum, Frogn and Vestby should not use any forces or resources to organise a secondary fire protection in relation to fire on board ships, because the Council of State considers that this will be ensured by the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e973	It was to draw me very far. The Fire Service is locally organised in Norway, but professionally, a line goes up to the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, which is now under the Ministry of Justice. Using good local knowledge from local weather and traffic conditions is still a good culture in Norway. Anyone who knows, for example: the density of small vessels in Asker and Bærum and Frogn, will certainly take it inwards. I am quite sure that this will be an urgent theme for local politicians. What I said was that there should be coordination, so that if there are major incidents, there must be a plan, and then I said that in addition to the ships having a responsibility to which they are obliged – a booklet published that the Ministry of Justice, called Task and Cooperation in the event of ship accidents, describes both the division of responsibilities and procedures – I have stated that the Central Rescue Centre is operational. I have also said that we must have specially trained crews for larger situations. We had to do that after ‘Scandinavian Star’, because shipping in Oslofjord is everything from small to very large boats. Reason suggests that we must try to cover all of this, both at local level and at nationally coordinated level.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e982	We are now dealing with questions 27 and 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e988	This question, from the representative of Inger S. Enger to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e991	‘Uppland, Akershus and Hedmark are now to be sent to Scotland for cutting. Car wrecks from a total of 11 other counties are sent to the British Isles, modified from the original formulation, which read: ‘Bilvrak from 11 other counties are dispatched to England.’. The industry in Norway believes that they can take care of this. The job has been out on European tenders, and according to the SFT, they had to choose the lowest. 47 000 tonnes of wrecks shall be dispatched. This means job losses in Norway and is bad for the environment. This is probably an example of transport being detached from the environmental accounts. What are the instruments available to the Council of State to avoid such transport, and what can be done?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1001	The return arrangements for car wrecks are working well. It is based on the delivery of end-of-life vehicles to car collection sites, including: hazardous liquids, battery and mercury components are removed. The eco-sanctioned vehicles are then sold to fragmentation plants that cut them up and sell the scrap metal further as raw material. In this way, the material is recycled up to 80 pst. of the vehicle wreck. In the case of the sale of car wrecks, the State pollution control body, the SFT, must comply with the principles of free competition and non-discrimination on grounds of nationality of the EEA Agreement. Consequently, since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement in 1994, foreign fragmentation installations have been part of the competition for the purchase of Norwegian car wrecks. This has given the government revenue of about 7 million. kr. per 1 % year and saved Norwegian car owners for corresponding increased fees. On 4 February this year, the Minister for the Environment received a written question from Mr. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik on the same subject. In this connection, he asked the SFT for a statement on the sale of Norwegian car wrecks to British fragmentation plants. The SFT stresses in its statement that in the selection of installations they focus on environmental, price and competition-related aspects. In recent years, foreign companies from England and Scotland have had the best offers on the purchase of end-of-life vehicles from Norway. However, in order to ensure competition in the market, SFT has also sold car wrecks to Norwegian fragmentation plants. In 2004, approx. 55 pst. of the car wrecks are sold abroad, while the remaining 45 pst. sold to five Norwegian plants. In the opinion of the SFT, a stronger preference for Norwegian installations could break the EEA principle of free competition and discrimination on grounds of nationality. It is a prerequisite for the sale of environmentalised car losses to the rest of the world that fragmentation plants have an environmental standard at the level of Norwegian installations. The SFT states in its statement that on several occasions it has rejected offers from abroad where the environmental standard was not satisfactory. Thus, the selection of fragmentation installations places emphasis on the environmental standard at the site. In addition, the SFT also takes into account the environmental impact of the transport of vehicle wrecks. The SFT has repeatedly selected Norwegian installations over non-residents as a result of reducing the environmental impact of transport. This despite the fact that a better total price offer has been made from the non-residents. In addition, SFT places considerable emphasis on the use of environmentally friendly transport solutions. All car wrecks are therefore efficiently adapted for transport by train and boat. This will often be the most environmentally friendly transport options, regardless of whether the wrecks go to Norwegian or foreign facilities. When exported to England and Scotland, of course, the transport takes place by boat from ports in Norway. Environmentally restored end-of-life vehicles are classified as green waste. Under the rules of the EEA Agreement, green waste destined for recovery must be able to move freely across borders. Norwegian car fragmentation plants and other recycling establishments also benefit from this legislation by having access to waste treatment from other countries. In the light of what I have just said, there is no need to implement specific measures against SFT practices in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1020	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that the SFT is doing its job on the basis of some hopeless EEA legislation. But I have to say it's a cross of thought that Norway exports garbage to such an extent in addition to the materials that can be recovered. 25 pst. according to the industry to landfill or incineration. I heard in the reply to the Council of State that it was said that SFT paid attention to environmentally friendly transport, but it will be extra transport. In Oppland, the work could have been done on site. In addition, there will be additional run-off on the berths pending shelling, as there is no requirement for oil separators. It is always negative that jobs and technical skills are lost. We ordinary people are calling for a holistic approach in which transport is part of the environmental and social accounts. Is it really not possible to impose other conditions in relation to environmental requirements in the tender document, for example: shortest possible transport, so that an overall assessment can be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1034	Although I am not a specialist councillor, I understand the logic of the answer I have given. It is quite clear that the SFT is just to assess that there is no worse standard out than at home in the case of Norwegian environmental requirements. This has led to the fact that even if you have had the lowest price, there are a number of offers that have not gone out of the country, because there has simply been a better standard in Norway. It has led to the final result that of 100 pst. is 45 pst. which has gone to fragmentation in Norway. That just indicates what's at the heart of the question that's been raised: you can't just send it out of the country because it's cheapest, you have to meet some standards. The Norwegian authorities do that, and you use the rules as best you can. Then we can probably also enjoy the opposite, that Norwegian fragmentation plants have better standards than you have out there, so that we can do something that saves other countries from stress. But the framework around this is the principles of the EEA Agreement, and within that framework, it is my opinion through the knowledge I have gained from being in the place of the Minister for the Environment, that it is doing its best to be sensible for environmental reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1039	I thank you again for the answer. I understand that the Council of State and I think a little bit in the same path here, but it's very sad that not the last 55 percent are taken in Norway, because Norway can complete the whole value chain and take care of it in a good way. If I go back to Uppland again, we have carjackers who can take that job, right where these wrecks are. The recovery metal can be used in Norway, for example: iron to Fundia. If one is to think environmentally friendly, it is important that a user of Norway, as the Council of State also mentioned, has more stringent environmental requirements than very many other countries. I don't think we can talk about environmental obligations without following it in practice, and in this case there are 47 000 tonnes, for a large part, transported out of the country. My final question is: who really has responsibility for the whole policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1052	Responsibility for the overall policy in Norway lies with the Government through the Minister for the Environment, and then the Minister for the Environment has a responsibility to cooperate with the environmental protection authorities of other countries. The general answer is that everyone, and especially Norwegian authorities, is interested in getting better international environmental standards that oblige everyone. This is one of the reasons why the Minister for the Environment, who is not here, has made considerable efforts, including: to stop nuclear pollution from Sellafield, and he will have eternal praise for the effort, which seems to lead. There is an effort to build standards. Then we're dependent on others backing us up when we, for example. Faced with the environmental disaster we may be experiencing in oil and nuclear waste transport along the Norwegian coast. The Minister for the Environment is very concerned about this. I know that. But then back to the core question. I have deep respect for the ‘higher tradition’ in Norway, especially in the electoral district from which the representative comes. What I mean to say is that Norwegian 'higher traditions' have a fair chance. So they get 45 pst. And just because you can be good, you don't lose in competition. What I've described is that you're not doomed to lose, but can win, and 45 pst. of the fragmentation are work and environmental tasks that will be solved in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1062	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen of the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1065	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: ‘There have been several instances of poor maps creating very unfortunate situations, particularly at sea. Progress has long been called for in measurements of the regions from Brønnøysund and northwards and at Svalbard. What is the situation with regard to the plans for measuring these areas, and when can it be expected that these absolutely necessary measurements will be carried out?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1074	Modern and up-to-date charts are an important means of safe travel along our long coast. The State Maritime Cartagena Survey has the national responsibility for the implementation of maritime mapping in accordance with international standards and obligations. The government has given high priority and allocated funds for the maintenance of maritime mapping, so that modern electronic navigational charts for all major coastal fairways are in place in 2006-2007. Maritime mapping is an extensive work, such as: require new measurements. The Swedish Maritime Administration has made a great effort in this work. Several measures have been put in place to improve and accelerate production, both for maritime measurement and map production. The private sector has qualified to carry out tasks both in the field of sea measurement and surveying, and laser measurement from aeroplanes has been used to streamline measurements in shallow areas. There are now authorised electronic charts for the route from the Swedish border to Brønnøysund and parts of Troms and Finnmark. Further measurements from Brønnøsund and northwards will be completed until 2006. In 2004, sea measurements will take place in the area from Brønnøysund to Bodø, in the Tjeldsundet and in relation to Melkøya. New maps will be published for Helgeland and parts of Finnmark. Residual sites will then be taken in 2005 and 2006. In the case of Svalbard, an annual rate of increase will be implemented in 2004. Measurements around Svalbard take place according to a priority which has its background in a good dialogue with those actors who need charts in this area. Although new technology has made it possible to double the production of chart data around Svalbard, it will still take some time before the entire coast around Svalbard will be covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1085	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Once upon a time, the Swedish Maritime Cartwork has been merged with the Swedish Cartwork, and the head office has moved far into the country. There are differences between maps and charts. In the case of charts, you have to know how deep it is under the cold, because if you don't know how deep it is, you can lose your life. On land it's not going the same way, because there you can drive on the road. If you're going to compare the two, the Cartwork and the Maritime Cartwork, you're going to drive on land in the ditch, but when you're at sea, you're going to drive on the sea, so you have to know. We have up to 200-year-old data on the basis of the electronic maps, so measurement is important, and it's reassuring to know that there's a plan for measuring northwards. But isn't it time to separate the Maritime Cartwork from the Landmap?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1090	As a land crab, I have deep respect for Bastesen's coastal knowledge -- deep respect, and I'm going to base, even though I'm answering on behalf of another state council, that when you move on the sea, you show respect for the sea. I assume that when you're at sea, you don't drive a car on water. I'm assuming that the skills sought are just to show respect for the particular, also the special coast we have, with our long ladder, which is complicated to travel in. I understand parts of the heart sugar of the representative. I don't think it's about the Maritime Cartwork, which is part of the state's chartwork, but part of a coastal culture is about to be lost, because we are, among other things, losing. has a leisure culture where people drive a boat on the water as they drive a car. I am happy that we still have coastal knowledge, and the representative stands for that coastal knowledge and tries to take care of them. I believe, at best, that it is also trying to do the State Maritime Cartwork.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1095	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and record that this will be handled in the best way possible. Like an anecdote, it's worth noting that we were losing the Royal Ship. It was about to fall off for a reason that was not measured, in Herey. I have already said this from the pulpit of the Great Government: it is regrettable that even the King can go for a reason that is not measured. So I hope that this will be enforced, and it seems as if the Council of State could confirm it today. I stand here as a representative of the coastal culture to which he has just referred, so thank the Council of State for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1102	I am a true city citizen, but I am raised to have respect for the whole country, and especially respect for the coast. Through – I was saying – my holiday observations in Blindleia in the South I have studied the culture that we can describe as driving a boat on water. I'm very concerned about fending about the traditions that know the coast. That means that I am in the role of Minister of Justice, for example. have been concerned with ensuring the environment of competence around some of our coastal radios, because I know that there are important competences. I see coastal competence in a context and know that much of the safety work is now being done in fishing, and I am absolutely sure that the Ministry of the Environment and the competence of the Swedish Maritime Cartel Agency will take care of these aspects. My main answer to the representative is that it is a plan of progress, and it has just been put forward for its commitment. We want to remain weak when we make demands on other countries that we are afraid of coming with oil transport and perhaps nuclear waste transport along the coast, if we do not celebrate at our own doorstep. That is why I understand that the Minister for the Environment has given me an answer that is about to sweep at his own door before we start sweeping in front of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1109	We then go back to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1122	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1128	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘In January 2003, the Governing Board of the NRC decided to merge seven district offices into three. The aim was to streamline management and administration to strengthen journalism. The Minister of Culture approved the merger but expressed to News in January 2003 that it was essential that journalistic resources were strengthened. In the last edition of the journal, it appears that these offices today have less journalistic resources as a result of the merger. Does the Council of State think this is in line with the intentions of the merger?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1137	I have usually asked the question from the representative Lund Bergo for the rental in the NRK. The NRK’s regional organisation has undergone extensive reorganisation and efficiency improvement in recent years. The aim is to strengthen the journalistic impact force and at the same time to balance the NRK's budget. Part of the savings in 2002 and 2003 was made in connection with the merger of the district offices in Hedmark and Oppland, in Trøndelag, in North Norway and on the west side of Oslofjorden. It was always a premise that savings were to be made primarily in terms of rental, administration and support equipment. In addition, the creation of several joint missions would release resources for increased journalistic involvement in the regions concerned. The NRC states that even if editorial resources are to some extent also the framework, the majority of savings are made through efficiency improvements in leadership and administration. In addition, the creation of several joint missions has freed resources, so that today there are several journalisms behind every minute of transmission in the four merged offices than it was before. Merging of district offices has also opened to create more local offices. The NRK also reports that they have now seen the work of moving out journalism from Marienlyst to the district. Kirkenes, Trondheim and Bergen have therefore received new posts from January 2004. In my opinion, the main concern must be that the quality of the broadcasts is as good or better. I can here note that the number of listeners for 2003 shows an increase in the detail of the district shipments. Last year, every third Northman listens daily to at least one district broadcast. Nord-Trøndelag and Hedmark were two of the states that had the largest increase in listener containment. This suggests that the aggregation has not gone beyond the quality of the editorial product.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1152	I thank you for your answer. As the Council of State, I am also pleased that the NRK confirms its strong position, and I am also pleased that our worst assumptions about what this rationalization could have led to have failed. It seems to me that this succeeds to such an extent – and it will not surprise me – that the NRK's management is now looking forward to organising the whole of NRK's District Norway in five-six regional offices. The fact that more people are listening to the broadcasts is now one thing, but are they asked if they prefer the local broadcasts or the large regional broadcasts? Such measurements are not given. The second is that the management in the NRK says there are several journalisms per year. Sent minutes. Of course, it has to be, but it's not more right to ask if there's more journalistic work per. Listening?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1161	I found the last question a little difficult to answer. What matters to the listeners is that there are good programs being sent. It is obvious that one person uses several minutes of journalism per month. minutes sent should at least mean that the quality is increased. With as many offers as we have today, on different radio channels, we feel that there are more listening to the district broadcasts, and that means that there is quality above them. If they don't give us anything of quality, we don't listen to them either. The Norwegian population is becoming more and more busy with quality and what they listen to, and they listen to what they think is best to listen to. When the offices that have been involved in a merger process get the biggest increase in listening numbers, at least I take it as a sign that the listeners are naked. For me, it's important that the NRC General Assembly follow the programme to improve, and that the quality is increased, and so far I don't have reason to worry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1168	After it became known that we wanted to address this question in the Questionnaire, we have received many enquiries from employees in the NRK, and the same goes again from everyone. It has been cut in journalistic positions at all the merged district offices. Does the Council of State think that the employees of these offices are wrong that they cannot count? In Finland, for example, 44 employees have been reduced to 32 in the last three years, and in all the offices affected by mergers there are fewer journalistic positions. At the same time, the NRK has had 100 more employees over the course of a year, and we have also been made aware that the NRK commits to cutting down journalism at all the merged offices over the next six months. Is the Council of State saying that the NRK leadership has given her full information on this matter, and what will the Council of State do? Will the Council of State do anything to stop the real downpour at the district offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1173	As I said in my first answer, the NRK informed me that they have started a job of moving journalistic work out of Marienlyst to the district offices. Among other things, I Churches as one of the offices that has been given increased staffing in the current year. The language material mentioned in the article of the journalist is incorrect. There is a reduction in the number of journalistial or editorial posts, which is correct, but not as much as the journal The Journal reported. The point is that when the NRK is going to balance the economy, they also have to look at the annuals. What they're saying is that most of the reductions that have been made come in administrative settings, technical settings and not in journalistic settings, because there's something they want to punish about. That there's also a reduction there, we have to accept, but we have to follow closely that the quality of the program doesn't get any worse, and there I'm absolutely sure the listeners will give us quite clear signals in terms of listening numbers. And then I'm going to follow on with what's happening in the NRK, and part of what the representative is suggesting is going to happen is at least information that I don't know about. I'll get it to see what we might do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1186	‘Statsrådet Steensnæs demonstrated in Stortinget’s oral Question Time on 11 February 2004 that the Government cannot intervene in the company’s decision-making on the construction of gas power plants. At the same time, we see that some wind turbines have recently been built around Norway, despite the fact that such plants have lower profitability than gas plants. Does the Council believe that wind power plants would be built in Norway without State subsidies, aid schemes and/or organisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1193	The size has joined an objective of an environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and energy production. This is made visible, inter alia: by means of a concrete objective for the construction of wind turbines, which says that by 2010 one will have built wind turbines corresponding to a production of 3 TWh. The intention is that the different framework conditions of the authorities and our natural assumptions for wind power generation should help actors to find wind power projects so interesting that they are decided to develop to the extent that the authorities have set their objectives. The effort to achieve an environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and energy production means being ahead of the market, i.e. stimulating the use of technologies and solutions that are not commercially viable today. Most wind power projects depend on economic instruments to be realised. The aid schemes are designed in such a way that each project will receive the lowest possible amount of aid, but sufficient to ensure that the project is profitable. In the same way as for the construction of gas power stations, investment decisions are taken by the companies themselves and are not part of any government; the size does not have the same objective for the construction of gas power plants. Therefore, the companies involved in gas power projects must, on a free basis, assess their profitability. I take note that no one has so far decided to build gas power plants with a background in the economic prospects of such plants. Nor does the Government intend to establish a separate support scheme for conventional gas power plants for their realisation. However, in the Gas Communication, the Government drew up a policy to facilitate gas power stations with CO2 management. The initiative is an important element in strengthening energy supply in such a way that one can also achieve the climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1204	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which reaffirms once again that the government's so-called policy in this area is not linked. When there is something you want to do, it is set up with both subsidies, support schemes and massive organisation. And when you don't want to get anything, like gas power, you hide behind arguments like you can't intervene in the decision-making process of the companies that have the concession. At the same time, the Council of State states that it is for gas power stations with CO2 management, but does not go beyond assessing an investment aid in 2006. When can we expect an offensive strategy, a strategy that is interrelated, from the Government to advance power generation based on gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1211	The so-called policy to which Mr Voksdal refers is a policy which has broad support in the Grand Duchy. I'm glad. That the Progress Party has not yet chosen to join this forward-looking policy is just to regret, but that is political life. It is therefore not the case that this government intends to wait until 2006 to support the development of gas power plants with CO2 management. I have already announced that before the summer holiday I will bring a new staging message based on the construction of gas power plants with CO2 handling, where among others. a pilot plant support programme will be detailed. I notice with interest that there are now many initiatives along the coast, because the power companies see that this is the future, and that conventional gas power stations are the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1220	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. The government's extensive and almost unilateral investment in wind power shows that the point of security of supply has not really been understood. In addition to being unprofitable in the incalculable future, wind power will be very unstable and demand that there are other alternatives in place. This will be a major challenge, not least for system operator. The construction of windmills is considered by many to be a visual stowage. New windmill production, for example in Finnmark, will be both shaming and, not least, demanding very expensive infrastructure investments. Is there at all no limit to how much money this government will waste just to prevent the development of gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1229	Well, there's a limit to how much money the government has. I wish we had more money for wind turbines, because they obviously have a great potential. The representative indicates that wind power is unstable. Yes, but that hydropower Progress Party and Øyvind Waksdal have announced that they will bet so much more on, has also proved very vulnerable. We learned that bitterly in the winter of 2002/2003. If we don't get a more differentiated energy supply, we won't have the security of supply that I think both business and households need. Wind power alone cannot provide the energy supply. Together with hydropower, gas power plants with CO2 management, wiring, energy saving and bioenergy, we will have a robust, forward-looking and energy-efficient policy in this country. So I just want to add that if the representative of Vaksdal were to suggest that the government should come up with a similar support system for conventional gas power plants, it is likely to be contrary to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1242	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘In its oral Question Time of 11 February 2004, the Steensnæs Council of State said: ‘The Government is in favour of allowing the three concessions granted for conventional gas power stations on both Forests, Kårstø and Kollsnes to go, so that it is up to the owners whether or not to build these gas power stations.’ If the Council of State is in favour of using these three concessions, why is the Government so suspended in its geographical location, all the time considered to be a global rather than a local environmental problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1251	Four concessions under the Energy Act for the construction and operation of gas power plants in Norway have been notified today. Naturkraft AS has been granted a concession for two gas power plants on Kårstø and Kollsnes respectively, while Industrikraft Mid-Norway AS has been granted a concession for a gas power plant in Skogn. The reason why these concessions have not been put into service is that the developers have provisionally assessed that there is insufficient profitability in the projects. In addition, a concession has been granted for energy production at the Snow White plant in Finnmark. It will be built. The three current concessions for the construction and operation of gas power plants in the West and in Trøndelag were granted by the government of Stoltenberg. The geographical location of these gas power stations is not a central point of the Government. But we have to deal with the current concessions. It was the companies themselves that applied for a concession for installations at the sites concerned. The three concessions for gas power stations in the West and in Trøndelag relate to specific projects with a given location. The concessions may not be transferred to other projects. Therefore, a new gas power project requires a new concession through an ordinary concession treatment with related impact assessments. Similarly, a new project will also require a new emission permit under the pollution law. There is also no legal basis, neither in the law nor in the concessions, for the authorities to withdraw the concessions already granted. However, the concessions contain conditions for the date of entry into service of the installations. In the event of failure to comply with these deadlines, the concessions will lapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1262	I thank the Council of State for the answer. A central point for these companies will also be the location on the basis of profitability requirements. I'm aware that you can't move any concessions, so you might have to apply for a new concession. But since the Council of State is in favour of three concessions, how will the Council of State assess whether the owners of these granted concessions wish to apply for new concessions elsewhere in order to increase the profitability of the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1269	For my part, I just want to point out that the companies have recently applied for a concession extension on Kårstø and Kollsnes, and have been granted it. Industriekraft Mid-Norway AS has now received a similar application to extend the concession period in the department. I can't initially see that the companies were to be discriminated against here, but everything depends, of course, on the conditions. Should the companies have come up with other ideas and ideas, I'm of course open to discussing this with the companies, especially if this is a forward-looking technology that enables us to produce energy from gas power plants with CO2 management, and therefore without breaking the climate objectives. At this point, the government's policy is clear. It is set out in the Sem Declaration, and I am dealing with this mandate and the policy on which the Government is obliged.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1276	I thank the Council of State for the answer. If we talk about gas power plants in Norway, we talk about conventional gas power plants – talking about gas power plants with CO2 handling is actually talking about gas power plants with ‘trolling’ CO2, because that technology is not yet available. I think that must be the starting point for discussing gas power plants, dealing with the reality of the matter, and not talking about an imagination in the future. I have been concerned about the importance of the location in order to get profitability for those who want to expand gas power plants, simply because the developments you see in the industry change quickly and require new grips. So, as I see it, the government doesn't want to be part of that kind of development to give companies an opportunity. Is there a deliberate strategy from the Government, or is this just a strategy to train what is involved in gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1285	The prerequisite for entering into a dialogue on the construction of gas power plants is that one relates to the facts and knowledge that one already has. So it's completely wrong, the representative of Øyvind Korsberg claims that there is no technology for handling CO2. It does. It is a gas power plant with CO2 handling that works today. The only question is: is this the most cost-effective, forward-looking technology solution? That is the big question, and that is why the Government has said that its policy is going through testing in pilot plants, so that we can be sure that the gas plants on which we are investing are forward-looking, cost-effective and competitive. In terms of government policy, it is very clearly defined in the Sem Declaration. I do not have much to add to the answer I have already given, also to the previous question. But I want to show that the government's policy is based on what I think will prove to be very competitive and forward-looking, and that combines the importance of energy production with important international climate commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1295	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family: ‘Government Bondevik is committed to strengthening the family’s condition. The family communication will work for various co-operation measures that can contribute to better and more sustainable living. One measure is that all couples and cohabitants are offered a free life course when they have their first child. How are these life courses to be conducted, to what extent will non-governmental organisations be involved, and how are the municipalities to be included in the initial selection?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1304	I want all first-time parents living in a couple in the country to be offered a free life course and that this will gradually become part of the general offer addressed to families with children. The purpose of the Government's proposal in St.meld. No 29 for 2002–03 Life courses can teach parents about communication, conflict management and partnership. The period when you have your first child requires big changes, and many later conflicts in the relationship can be traced back to this time. The courses shall enable parents to cope better with life problems and thus contribute to improving the quality and duration of life. This is not least important for children. Investing in prevention at this stage will strengthen family life and reduce the number of broken lives. In addition, such a course offer could help to increase the awareness of the population about life conflicts and the availability of help. Hopefully, this could make a couple easier to seek help. In the 2004 State budget, 5 million have been allocated. kr over cap. 830 Parental guidance and lifelong learning measures to launch the action this year. The Ministry has started planning the course offer, but the final arrangements for organising and implementing the offer have not yet been completed. However, I can say something about how this is intended to be implemented. Before the offer can be made nationwide, it has to be tested in some selected municipalities and counties. In this way we can gain experience before it is launched on a full scale. The aim is to develop an appropriate course concept during the spring, so that the first courses can be started from the summer/harvest 2004. The way in which the municipalities to be included in the first stage of testing are to be selected has not yet been decided. But I am aware that the offer of a life course today is unevenly geographically distributed, and that there is a need to make community measures more accessible throughout the country. This will be taken into account in the selection of participating municipalities in the first year. The Ministry has already received enquiries from several municipalities. These will also be assessed. Otherwise, the National Children's Protection and Family Protection, SBF, will be asked to make proposals to municipalities according to specified criteria. In 2005, we are planning to expand the course offer in terms of both the number of participating municipalities and the build-up of skills. The government aims to expand its course activities throughout the country in 2006. Health stations are the body in the municipalities which, to the greatest extent and at an early stage, comes into contact with their first parents. That is why I think it is appropriate that the course offer should somehow be anchored at the country's health centres. Already in the project testing, all relevant actors in the field of life should be involved. Voluntary organisations are very key players and have a high level of competence. These will be included both in the development of and in the implementation of the course offer. But other arenas that families are looking for, such as: family protection offices and centres, will be relevant partners and will be able to provide guidance and assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1320	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Family functions have changed a lot in recent years. You've got different problems, and you're moving according to different patterns than you did before. The fact that the family is a basic cell in society, as the introduction to the Children's Convention says, is at least as important now. In the family, the basic needs for safety, care, encouragement and physical needs such as food and clothing are met. The fact that parents are able to hold together is important. I believe that the course of life will be a good measure also in view of the child's growing-up conditions. A study conducted at Modum Bad shows that seven out of ten young people see a future in a lifelong marriage. Our goal is to make this dream a reality. We know that there are many people who are conducting a life course today – health centres, family protection offices, some municipalities, non-governmental organisations, congregations, etc. Can the Council of State elaborate on how she sees that competence to be used? Would there be more than one tenderer in a region, or would there be one bid in a city or region?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1329	We're going to put a frame for some of the contents of these courses. Of course, there can be some variations. Some of the most important courses so far are, for example: When two become three, common challenges in the relationship, dialogue, cooperation and communication between mother and father, mother and father – new roles and needs, clarification of work and responsibilities. With regard to the actual implementation of the courses, it could be done through different organisations, both public and private. We're very busy using the competence that all of these agencies that are currently conducting the ordinary life courses have been working on for many years. As far as selection is concerned, health centres will be important, because they will meet all the children, and they will also have an overview of who will be offered these courses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1338	I also thank you for that answer and look forward to expanding this. My last question brings me to something the Council of State answered. There is already a good deal of a life course today that likes to go over a weekend, and that's a different kind of a life course than what we're talking about here. There has been a great need for that. The amount of application has been much higher than the amount of pot placed by the country at these courses. Does it mean that this project will replace this type of course, or how does a future look like the existing types of course?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1345	These rates shall not compensate for the ordinary course of life. They will be continued and hopefully made even better and more widespread, because demand has been very, very large. These rates are also subject to a certain proportion of a certain proportion on the part of the parents. Equally, demand has been several times greater than what we've been able to organize for. One-day courses are not very much either, but it may be the entrance that parents see that this is useful, and sign up for the more ordinary life courses. I also want to mention the life courses we have started for parents with children with disabilities. They have been very successful, and in these days they are also being extended to new parts of the country. In fact, we have seen that parents with disabled children have particular challenges in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1355	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: «In the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2001–02, the SV received a majority in favour of a proposal in the United Kingdom on an investigation into the situation of sexually abused children and their families in Norway with a particular focus on case-law, treatment provision, follow-up and competence. What action has the Council of State taken to comply with this proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1364	The request decision to which the representative Hansen refers was dealt with in St.meld. No 29 for 2002-2003, About the family – committed togetherness and parenthood. I quote here the Government’s conclusion on this question on page 53, column 2: ‘The government will develop an overall plan against sexual abuse against children and extend the perspective to include physical abuse against children. This shall not prevent the continuous implementation of the measures concerned.’;» The Family, Culture and Administrative Committee held in Innst. S. No 53 to St.meld. No 29 no objections or comments to the adjustments from the perspective of the original decision of the Storting. The Committee presented this opinion on 25 November last year. I would also like to mention that making an overall plan against sexual and physical abuse of children as a follow-up to the family survey is an action in the Government’s strategy plan for children and young people’s mental health, publication number I-1088. This Strategy Plan clarifies that the preparation of such a plan will end in 2004. The Ministry of Children and the Family shall manage the work of drawing up a plan against sexual and physical abuse against children, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, the Directorate of Social Affairs and Health and also the Ministry of Justice. This plan will cover all the areas mentioned in the question to the representative Hansen. Where necessary, other departments and relevant expert communities will also be involved. I would like to stress that the work on the plan against sexual and physical abuse against children needs to be coordinated with two other plans that several departments are now working together to make. I am thinking here of the action plan against violence in close relations, for which the Ministry of Justice has the primary responsibility. I also aim at the new plan for the exploitation of minors in pornography and gender trafficking, for which the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs is responsible for coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1378	Thanks for the answer. Work is now under way in the Nordic Council, where there is a group looking at the growing conditions of children and young people in the Baltic, North-West Russia, Greenland and the Nordic countries. The undersigned is in that group. What we see in all countries is that the problem of sexually abused children is enormous. Trafficking is a major cross-border problem. A large survey has just been carried out in Sweden to identify the number of children who have been sexually assaulted. I think it is necessary that we in Norway now have a survey on the table. Does the Council have any thoughts about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1385	I very much agree with that. We also need to monitor this extent in Norway. As far back as 1997, we had the last big message -- maybe it was the first one, I'm not sure -- about sexual assault. Unfortunately, this is an increasing problem across the Nordic region, including what we call trafficking in children and women, i.e. trafficking. Here we also have close international cooperation, among other things. The children at risk, a cooperation we have with the Baltic Sea countries. In the context of this plan, we will monitor the situation in Norway. We also need to use our environments of competence. But I still hear, when I meet the incest centers, that there are still dark figures in Norway that do not come out as easily as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1392	I thank you for your answer. I would like to ask another question in connection with some of the Councils, namely darkness. The Committee has said a lot about this area, and we have been quite unanimous on it. What we have also said is that it is important to increase the competence and quality of treatment for sexually abused children. There are today great darknesses, and countless children are failing by adults who cannot or will not see. It is absolutely necessary to use resources in kindergartens, schools, child protection, health centres, health care and psychiatry. In some other Nordic countries, there are children’s homes, for example. in Iceland, I don't know if the council is familiar with it. We have to put in a formidable effort for these children. They are some of the weakest and most vulnerable children we have in this country. Can the Council of State say anything about whether she has thought in the same paths as one has done in other Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1401	I know about the "Barnahuset" in Iceland. We have so far not considered doing anything similar in Norway. What we've done is put a lot of force and work in this Children that risk-cooperation that we have, and that's actually very good. There's a lot going on trafficking, on crime across borders. From this year on, we have gathered and established this new violence and trauma centre in central Norway. We think it's absolutely necessary that this center also work to map, to document and to get an overview. Not least, we need to look at the methodology and treatment options we should provide to these children — eventually also to those young people, and adults for that part, who have actually experienced incest when they were young. It's often that many people wait until they're adults before they can and can talk about it. We need to have greater transparency. Ullevål hospitals are also involved in the competence they have in this work. So we're doing several things.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1420	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1427	This question, from Bente Gunn Håtfuft to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1430	‘A link has been found between the scale of bullying in schools and the poor environment of the school management and the college of teachers. Insecurity in classrooms and free minutes gives poor conditions for good learning for students. Research shows that stress and delay after bullying are as large as those we find after children have experienced war acts. What measures has the Government taken to reduce bullying substantially in primary school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1437	I will answer this question on behalf of the Council of State Kristin Klemet. It is a goal that the school must have zero tolerance for violence, racism and bullying. The Ministry of Education and Research has as its main strategy that the attitude-creating work towards negative behaviour requires holistic, continuous and long-term efforts from school leaders, teachers, parents and students and others involved in the school community. The school’s activities should not be short-term and isolated, but should go into the school’s daily activities and include all students. School management has a key role here. In this context, I would like to mention the three main measures that have been taken. Following evaluation of different programmes and action to combat problem behaviour, the Ministry has chosen to support some selected actions and programmes that can document good results. The financing of programme development and the training of course holders for these programmes has been the responsibility of the State. The follow-up and use of these is a local responsibility for school owners and individual schools at school management. All municipalities have been offered schooling and the use of these programmes. 381 schools have launched the Olweus programme for the period 2002–04, and 184 schools are participating in the Zero programme in 2003–04, developed by the Stavanger Behavioral Research Centre. Preliminary results from schools that have worked on the programmes over some time show a clear decrease both in the incidence of bullying students and in students who are bullying. A recent survey of students in Oslo shows clear progress, an increase in the number of pupils who are enjoying school life. As you know, Oslo has worked very offensively with measures against bullying. In addition, I would like to mention Manifesto against bullying, which is a cooperation between many parties. Through this cooperation, a number of measures have been taken in all areas where children and young people live, to limit the presence of bullying, violence and racism. The Learning Centre shall, on behalf of the Ministry, have the coordinating responsibility for the follow-up of the manifesto by all manifesto parties. Meetings are held regularly with all the manifestos. Experience and concrete action, as well as ideas for combating this type of undesirable behaviour, have been gathered in the learning centre. An action package for combating bullying in higher education is launched this spring. A seminar is also planned for teachers' representatives. A new provision of the Training Act on the School Environment of Students entered into force on 1 April 2003. The new provision establishes: ‘All elephants in primary and secondary schools have the right to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning.’ The new thing in the law is that students and parents are getting a greater degree of user involvement, among other things. with a clearer right of appeal. The school's responsibility for creating and maintaining a good learning environment is made clear. Neither Manifesto against bullying, legislative changes, nor behavioural regulation programmes give itself some promise to get rid of all bullying. However, by means of the measures taken, it should at least be possible to get there that no child can be subjected to long-term bullying and harassment at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1464	I thank you for the answer so far. Unfortunately, as a school health worker, we see that in some schools anti- bullying does not work very well. We see that this is very person-dependent. Some principals can actually shut down, and there will be very little communication between parents, students and management on this issue. The right has previously stated that the principal should have been employed on a yearly basis, precisely to have a stronger instrument to deal with things if they are not involved. What happens in the municipalities is that the local government says these are so delicate things that we can't deal with this. One of the last taboo areas is student bullying, and especially when the teacher is in charge of bullying. In fact, I still see very dark things about this if in a while you can't get to a system where the principal is much more accountable than is the case today. If we – including these principals – looked at our children as our largest share capital, we would treat them roughly as directors. I think that whoever does a good job as a principal should then be remunerated, and that whoever does not do a good enough job should not be allowed to continue as a principal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1475	I very much agree that it is very important to get involved from the top of the school and also to be able to involve parents, and that both bullies and those who are bullied are included. I think the good work that's going on will spread. As I said, we have different programs you can choose to use. 2003 was the big year when we were nationally committed to developing the programmes and creating a system for all schools to be invited. It's only now, in 2004, that the local year has come, and we're at the beginning of that year. There are strong leadership from school owners now, among others. municipalities, to get school leaders and principals to participate. We hope that more schools will come along, because it's actually working.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1482	Then I thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1498	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1504	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Recently, we have seen several examples of the Norwegian fishing industry building up its activity in Norway in order to establish itself within the EU. The Norwegian farming industry is living with constant anti-dumping threats. The extended EEA Agreement, which enters into force on 1 May, provides for customs duties on fishery products to 10 new countries. What will the Government do to avoid further losses of market shares and jobs in this industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1513	The trade conditions for the export of seafood to the EU are far from optimal, and the EU is our main market. I note that more and more people in the fishing industry are now increasingly giving rise to the desire for better market access and asking questions about membership. The breeding industry is constantly facing new threats to anti-dumping and safeguard measures and large parts of the rest of the industry face very high customs duties and/or restrictive quotas. Customs duties are usually higher the more products have been processed. This is a real problem for those in the industry who want to export more processed products to the EU, and it has a negative impact on coastal employment. Pelagic products are the most important of our trade with the new EU countries. The EEA enlargement negotiated solution ensures the possibility of maintaining this trade related to pelagic products. The quotas contain a so-called dynamic element, so that they are larger than today's exports to the EU as a whole, which means that, for example, the customs duty rate. on herring cloths are significantly lowered from 15 pst. to 3 pst. Rectifiers also gain better market access. This will contribute to increased processing in Norway of this type of products. Quotas and customs duties apply throughout the EU, and the size allows us to now export more of pelagic products free of customs duties than before. However, enlargement of the EU will pose challenges for industry to maintain market shares in the new EU countries. And that's the way it was shown that salmon industry is now going to have further problems in several countries after enlargement. There may be many good reasons why actors consider building up in Norway rather than investing in the EU or in other markets. Societies assessments related, for example, to: labour costs, lack of skilled labour or difficult trading conditions, we experience. On the other hand, the removal of barriers to trade does not mean that fishing companies have been successful neither in the EU nor in the global fishing market. To that, there are too many other factors involved, including: productivity of individual holdings, market alignment of products, exchange rates, etc. However, the objective must be to achieve a division of labour between Norway and other countries that create the highest possible value creation in the marine sector in this country. However, we must recognise that the lack of access to our main market makes processing in Norway difficult and exports of highly processed products. The EU is our largest seafood market and in a special position in market labour. The government also has a particular focus on the absence of new EU protectionist measures for the farming industry. At the same time, we do a lot in other forums to improve the industry's framework. Both active efforts in the WTO negotiations and work on future bilateral trade agreements, such as: South Korea and Japan are priority areas for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1526	I would like to thank the Minister for Fisheries for his answer. He is entitled to have more factors than market access that determine whether it is profitable to have production facilities in Norway. But we have central authorities on our side. I'm thinking that the value creation is done on the coast. It is based on proximity to the raw material, rich supply of raw material, highly productive and clean seas, diverse conditions for farming and the competent fishing and farming environment. I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. It goes without saying that he has seen that there is now a cross-political commitment going along the coast to send a new EU application for the next major period, and that the interests of the coast must then be at the top of the list of negotiating themes. Have I interpreted the Minister for Fisheries correctly, when I found that he agrees that EU membership is the answer to our challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1535	I support the declaration of government that I as the Council of State am to manage, that at present EEA membership is the link we have with the European Union. We have to recognise that the different parties have different views about membership. And it is well known that the current Minister for Fisheries has been in favour of EU membership, at the latest at the 1994 referendum. Having said that, I agree that the proximity to the resource is an important prerequisite for us to succeed in getting more processing along the coast. But we see that fish have become a global commodity, and when we are going to face competition from low-cost countries and also compete with protectionist measures in the EU to prevent the highly processed products of others, it is difficult to maintain the activity of factories along the coast. I think it is interesting that some of the most prominent representatives of the Coastal Party and one of the most prominent politicians in the Central Party, the county rapporteur in Troms, say that the coast is now served with membership. I'm recording that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1544	A little follow-up question. There is an interest and commitment on the part of the Minister for Fisheries to raise fisheries matters much higher on the agenda, both in the case of the management of the EEA Agreement and in the case of a new application for membership. What can we expect from the Minister for Fisheries in that context?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1549	Both the Minister of Fisheries and the Government handle the EEA Agreement as the instrument we have. Making sure that we have market access that is optimal in relation to the EEA Agreement is our first task. I'm recording the discussion that's now going on along the coast, and I think it's interesting. I think it is an important prerequisite for us to be able to clarify the benefits of membership, and how many disadvantages are, in particular, related to resource management, which we have discussed here today. That's this two-sidedness I'm weighing up to each other. I note – as I said – that the rapporteur in Røst, who is a member of the Coastal Party, and the county rapporteur in Troms, who is a member of the Central Party, now notes that the sum of the disadvantages in their view is greater. I think this is part of updating a debate along the coast as it is important that we get, before we make a final decision in this Chamber. But the government stands by the fact that the EEA Agreement is the instrument we have, and we're going to stand by this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1561	«The NRK programme Focusing on Tuesday 17 February revealed that large quantities of fish are likely to be thrown into the sea each year from fishing vessels. This happens despite the ban, which is known to everyone. What will the Council of State do to identify the extent of this type of environmental crime, and what sanctions can be imposed against those who break the law in this way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1568	Control of resource extraction in our marine areas is a fundamental prerequisite for a stable and long-term high yield from fisheries. As a fisheries minister, I am concerned not to accept any discards of fish – which my predecessors have also been. The draft ban is official Norwegian policy. I am also not susceptible to accept any kind of environmental crime. Good resource control is a long-term work that needs to be combined with several management measures and efforts and from the industry itself. The issue of emissions is not new but, as referred to in the question, has been updated through this programme. We can later find out from the pictures that were shown there, that it was not Norwegian vessels that produced that draft. In retrospect, we have also found that the high figures to which reference was made, with reference to the Marine Research Institute, included far more than cod. Furthermore, we have been able to conclude in retrospect that this is a problem that is mentioned both in the coastal fleet and in the sea fishing fleet. That is why this week I held a meeting with the Directorate of Fisheries, the Institute of Marine Research, the Coast Guard and representatives of industry organisations to discuss the situation and what is needed to restore confidence in the industry – and to be confident that management and industry are taking this seriously. It is recognised that illegal discards can be a problem, both in the coastal fleet and in the sea fishing fleet, and that more knowledge is needed. Against this background, I have decided to reduce a Commission that will review the actions we have taken during the spring, evaluate, see if we can get a better factual basis for the scope of this, and see if there are activities at sea and on board ships that can improve this – and prevent environmental crime. We have zero tolerance on this field. On the action page, I have asked the Commission for, among other things, to look at technical devices aimed at the small-capture and by-catch problems, at the effectiveness of the control bodies, at the maximum level of organisation of the Directorate-General for Fisheries, so that we can get the most control out of the crowns we have, and at the use of inspectors on board ships, the way is to go. The coastguard, as I have already notified, will make further use of the helicopter to come surprisingly on and to exercise control. We're going through it and we're going to see if there's any unused sanctions. At least we can see that there is a further focus on this – not a new focus, but a further focus. This is a continuation of the work already undertaken at the end of the 1990s, which we are now seeing yields.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1586	I thank you for your answer. I was quite quickly out there and promoted this question, and I have registered that the Council of State has worked a lot on this matter in retrospect. I have the impression that after this program people have become very concerned about this with the draft of fish, because it is about the food barrel of future generations. It is important not to waste it unnecessarily. I think it is good that this investigation has started. I hope that such a commission can be a tool for correcting some of these conditions. But I think it will be crucial to play with those who are in the boat, and who to day have an overview of what is really happening. That's why I think it's important to have an open dialogue with them. Then my question is, Shouldn't the threshold not be able to tell if this is a little lower, without being punished for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1597	I think it's quite right, as it's said, that now it's become ethically unacceptable that this is happening. Therefore, dry fishermen stand out, both in the coastal fleet and in the sea fishing fleet, and describe the situation as they perceive it. I think that's good. That is why I have asked Arne Luther, Regional Director of Troms, who, through his work, has shown a very active attitude towards this, to sit in this Commission. One member of the Coast Guard and one appointed by the Ministry of Justice shall be part of this working group, which shall submit proposals and evaluations before presenting the revised national budget, so that I can inform the Stortinget. The last time the Stortinget was informed about this was in May 2001. I think there is reason to reintroduce the Storting about all the measures being taken. I have been quite clear that we report matters. Then it's up to the police, the investigation, the prosecutions and the courts to decide who's guilty, and who's not. The First State Attorney in Troms has made it clear that the way they handle the law has nothing to fear about standing up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1604	I have, of course, received a lot of enquiries this past week on this issue, from fishermen on boats. In the light of what the Council of State just said, with technical devices, does this mean that we want to look at the regulation on by-catch and perhaps also at the attitude of those who accept the fish on land to what they get on land? In any case, it is claimed that the question of by-catch and the receiver is a contributing cause and effect of discarding fish. Do you want to review this too?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1609	This is one of the things that we have to go in and look at, namely whether the legislation counteracts what is the original goal. We will go in and see if further closure of fields in small fish, and further selection through tooling can contribute to this. I think it is very important that we do this in close association with the industry, so that we do not complicate it further. The positive thing is that ethics in the fishing industry is starting to produce results. The fishermen will not accept this, and it is very important for an export industry. We must have a credibility in order for us to have an ethical attitude toward harvesting the resources of the sea. I look optimistic about what has happened in the last few days. I'm afraid that now, in an eagerness to hit some political ones, you're going to stigmatize the industry. I am therefore pleased that this question shows that we have common interests in making this a pure industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1621	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Food and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1624	I have the following questions for our Minister for Fisheries: «The losses in Fredrikstad report that the safety of the fairways is poor, but also on board some ships. The observation of the ship's trail from Ear through Glomma to Sarpsborg is deficient, and it is recently reported that ship and environmental disasters could have occurred in the worst cases. What will the Council of State do to remedy the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1633	The waters of Fredrikstad may be difficult to navigate in. Specific measures have therefore been taken to ensure maritime traffic in the form of navigation rules, unloading and marking. Strict sailing regulations are laid down, which require, inter alia,: the maximum length and depth of the vessels, the requirements for visibility, the requirements for daytime sailing, the requirements for the presence and passage of vessels and the requirements for the use of ropeboats. In particular, strict rules apply to vessels carrying dangerous or polluting goods. The Central Station of Horten monitors this water 24 hours a day with radar up to Øra in Fredrikstad and with VHF communications. The target is continuously checked with the camera. From 1 January 2003, the traffic centre was strengthened by a traffic controller, which particularly follows the traffic to the Fredrikstad area. The dispensation from the unloading obligation is provided only in exceptional cases for this water, and never too sailed up to Mellös at Sarpsborg. Stateless people in the area also have special training for sailing to Mellös. The comments made by the honourable Member from Øra to Sarpsborg have recently been improved. During the spring, the Øra observation will be further improved. The representative also questions the safety of ships operating in the waters of Fredrikstad. The control of ships falls within the Directorate of Maritime Affairs and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but there is also cooperation with the Directorate of the Coast and the pilots in this area. For the purposes of port State control, a ship database has been established with information on the specific risks of ships due to their category, age, condition, flag, history, etc. The information is the basis on which ships are to be checked. Information from the pilots is an important complement to this database in the selection and implementation of port State control. The Maritime Directorate and the Coastal Directorate have agreed on a pilot project to improve reporting procedures between the Directorates. In order to establish an even closer cooperation with the pilots, the Maritime Directorate has met with the pilot man in Horten, and a new meeting with all the pilots in the Ytre Oslofjord is planned in March. My conclusion is that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Agency have taken a number of measures specifically for the waters of Fredrikstad. At the same time, cooperation between the Coastal Directorate and the Maritime Directorate on the control of ships is strengthened. On this basis, I do not see the need for further action at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1656	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The disaster we had in Vetlestraumen has also made it more focussed on maritime safety. I'm glad that this upgrade, which we've been waiting for a long time in terms of the ship's trail to and from Fredrikstad and up in Glomma, is now undergoing a certain kind of upgrading. But the losers in this area are not satisfied. They react to the fact that when ships report to the Horten Traffic Centre, as the Council of State said, exemptions are granted in a number of cases to deviate from the normal ship's trail, despite clear limitations both for individual ships and for masters, who do not always have a fairway pass. We have examples that chemical tankers have been given a dispensation, in dense fog, we have had oil ships that have been given narrow waters, and the losers say directly that there is arbitrariness. Does not the Council of State think that a little more attention needs to be paid to this, perhaps intensifying the dispensation that is granted, that it is a la-det-shue attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1667	I strongly reject the fact that it should be a sort of la-det-shue attitude. I have proved that by establishing a closer cooperation between the pilots, and by calling for a new meeting with all the lodges in the Outer Oslofjord, which will be concluded in March. This is an example of us having established a closer dialogue, and I feel confident that the situation has improved both through this cooperation and through the technical devices that we have put in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1672	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. In the meeting that is now being announced, I am sure that the pilots will take up the example of the cargo ship ‘Baltic Trader’, which in December had the engine stopped in a small storm outside of Hyler after colliding with a vessel at the berth at the Øra at Fredrikstad and in front of the engine problems. The same ship had new problems with engine power and manoeuvrability on its way into Fredrikstad in February. So I have to assume that there are solutions for this kind of near-miss, which could mean shipping and environmental disasters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1679	I showed that we both have marked the waters by e.g. An ear in a better way and no later than a short time ago, three new so-called dipstalbs were established. I assume that the representative is well-informed about what this is, but for the sake of the references, I can say that there are bottom-up installations that contribute to safer navigation. In the case of ‘Baltic Trader’, to which in addition reference was made, there was a vessel to which it was found that we first controlled and allowed to pass, but after new information from the pilot went in and checked again, and the ship was ordered to correct deficiencies. It just illustrates that the closer cooperation we have now established contributes to safer shipping. I think we should now give praise both to the losers and to the Coast Guard for the way they handle this, and I feel confident that we have this under control.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1695	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1702	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘There is currently no requirement for an overall braking power on vehicle combinations [[car and towing vehicle]] What will the Council of State do to strengthen security in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1711	First of all, I would like to stress the importance of increased road safety in relation to heavy goods vehicles on Norwegian roads, especially now winter time. Of course, being properly protected and having adequate safety equipment is important for all those travelling on the roads, but it is of particular importance for the heavy-duty vehicles, because of the major consequences that an accident with such vehicles may cause. I have therefore taken a number of initiatives to improve road safety for just heavy goods vehicles. With effect from 1 January 2004, it is mandatory for all heavy-duty vehicles to carry a sufficient number of chains during the winter season in Norway. The state road system reinforces this winter's checks of tyres, chains and other safety on heavy vehicles throughout the country. I also think it is gratifying that there seems to be a broad connection in the truck industry to such strengthening of legislation and control activities. With regard to the question of braking requirements for vehicle combinations, anti-lock braking requirements (ABS) were introduced on 1 October 1992 for vehicles with a total mass exceeding 16 tonnes to tow trailers with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 10 tonnes. At the same time, ABS was introduced for trailers with a total mass greater than 10 tonnes. From 1 April 2001, the requirement was extended to all motor vehicles and trailers with a maximum authorised mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes. I can tell you that the Swedish Road Administration is considering introducing requirements for ABS also for old trailers that are not covered by the requirements today. Such a requirement, if any, could lead to the contemplation of many older hangers. The trailers in serviceable condition will have to be rebuilt and the price is estimated to be between NOK 20 000 and NOK 30 000. A legislative amendment proposal is likely to be sent in a short time at national and international consultations. Any requirement could enter into force during 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1724	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased with all the measures that have been implemented and which have been explained here. But what makes me raise this question in this session is that during a visit, an inspection, on Hedmark just, the Committee on Transport was made aware that we are facing a great challenge here. In the case of the relatively old towing vehicles – they do not have to be so terrible old either – we experienced that these were missing this equipment. Then my specific question is, is it possible to imagine that such a requirement can also be introduced for this type of vehicle?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1733	It's a topic that many people have been concerned about, fortunately, because it means that in many environments you are concerned with road safety, not least in relation to the large vehicles. What the State Road Service is saying is to go further in relation to the trailers that are not subject to today's legislation, just to avoid the type of accident that may occur because the trailer does not have ABS brakes, while the car itself has it. It is an important aspect, and it is also important to have a proper consultation on it. But all such technical problems that can reduce road safety and possibly even contribute to a dangerous situation, it is important to clear up. That is why the State Road Service has now taken this initiative to move forward with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1738	I thank you again for the answer. I understand that it may be difficult to impose an economic burden on an industry, but it must then be weighed against the regrettable thing that we see, that heavy-duty vehicles are often involved in traffic accidents with lighter vehicles. I wonder if it is possible for the Council of State to indicate that there are some older types of cars, for example. could have a transitional arrangement of two to three years for the owners to replace. After all, we also have a responsibility for the drivers of these heavy-duty vehicles, and when we see the effect, it's totally scary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1745	I expect that we will also get this kind of recording in the consultation round. It is very important that we have the round of consultations with those who are actually on the road, who know how it feels to drive in these cars, and who sees what kind of accidents you can get out of. The need for a transitional period, if any, also in the interests of the economy, must be taken into account in relation to the possible introduction of this type of legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1754	«By Road Act Section 20 it is clear that the State bears the costs of planning, construction, repair, maintenance and operation of the highways in Norway. Even if it's paid in close to 40 billion. From the drivers in various car-related charges, toll projects are constantly appearing. Several car and traffic organisations question the legality of toll collection. Does the Council of State consider that toll collection is within the framework of the Road Code, and is it the moral right to charge twice for road use?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1761	The Road Code has its own basis for collecting tolls. Section 27 of the Road Code states: ‘With the agreement of the Grand Duchy, the Ministry may provide that tolls are to be levied on public roads’... ‘The tolls may be used for all the measures for which this Act provides for. They may also be used for investments in fixed installations and installations for public transport by rail, including track and metro.» There is therefore no doubt that the use of tolls is within the framework of the Road Code, as long as this is done with the agreement of the Storting in each case and the use of tolls is in line with the provisions of the Road Code. As the representative Svendsen's own party has also voted on several occasions for the collection of tolls in Stortinget, I believe that the Progress Party shares this view. I assume that the representative Svendsen and the Progress Party have not voted in favour of proposals that are considered illegal, for example. in support of the collection of tolls on Rv 4 in Oppland, Rv 35 Lunner-Gardermoen and the T link in Rogaland. However, although on several occasions the Progress Party has also been committed to the use of tolls, I agree with the representative Svendsen that the State and the public should have a primary responsibility for the financing of the public road network. That's the way it is today. In 2004, it is assumed that approximately DKK 2.5 billion will be provided by the toll companies. The appropriations for the development, operation and maintenance of the overall public road network are roughly close to DKK 18 billion above public budgets – more than seven times more than toll use. The national road network appropriations for the State budget increased by over 700 million from last year to this year. kr. Of the eleven new construction projects launched on the main road network this year, only three are partly financed by tolls. The eight others are fully funded by state budget appropriations. So the government is increasing the state effort on the roads, and tolls are an addition, not a substitute for, state effort. This has been and is the broad political uprising about – just to get more done in a shorter time for the benefit of consumers. I assume that there is a local initiative for the use of tolls, and that there is local support for the arrangement in elected bodies. As long as these prerequisites are met and the project is within the scope of the Road Act, I believe it is both acceptable and desirable to accelerate important road projects in this way. And for the record, no toll project on the highways is or will be launched without the consent of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1779	The Progress Party has voted in favour of some toll projects. That's absolutely correct. What is common to all the toll projects is that road users have had the opportunity to drive around the boom and not pay. That is why we have voted in favour of these. The problem is that there are now more and more toll stations around the country. 35 pst. of all investments on the road network are now tolled, after reading the State budget. In addition to this, the drivers pay public transport in several cities through the toll system. Several of these cities around the country are surrounded by tolls. We see it in Tønsberg, Bergen, Oslo and Trondheim. The cities are also divided into zones, where you have to pay tolls to shop and go to the Post Office. In Tønsberg is 95 pst. tolls paid by drivers, 5 pst. by the State. Is it possible, then, that the state bears the costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1784	It is such that the Tønsberg package has also been dealt with here in Stortinget, and there has been a stir about that solution. I'd like to admit that in the case of Tønsberg, the toll ratio is very high. But that also means that you were very eager to get this going. In the case of the claim that 35 pst. toll-financed by all road investments is not quite correct. Taking into account that there are some municipal and municipal roads that also go over public budgets, this proportion is a smaller proportion. In addition to that, I would like to reiterate that it is not appropriate to implement toll-funded projects without having been treated in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1793	My first call goes to the Council of State to correct its own state budget, because that's where I picked up the number 35 pst. It's not like in Tønsberg you were eager to make a toll station, it was actually over 80 pst. by the citizens who in polls clearly rejected this. But now the Council of State has replied that it is within the law to collect tolls. When we know that it pays in excess of 40 billion kroner, as I said before, in car-related charges, is my last question – which was also asked in connection with the original question, but on which it was not answered: Does the Council of State think it is morally right to take double payment of the drivers, and does the Council of State feel comfortable with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1802	It is not morally right that people should die because of air pollution, or that they should die in traffic. That's not moral right. We have some costs related to traffic that are calculated outside of the department, which means that there are some external costs here, in addition to the actual costs we have on the road, of between 50 and 64 billion kroner. It provides a better picture of what all car traffic represents in our society, both in terms of accidents, noise, local air pollution, regional air pollution and climate, and we have various expenditures related to both national roads, county roads and municipal roads. We have to take the whole picture inwards: what does traffic cost society? From that perspective, yes, it is morally sound that we, as drivers, have to pay for some of the costs that we impose on society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1813	This question, from the representative of Åslaug Haga to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Dagfinn Sundsbø.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1816	«A reward scheme for public transport in larger urban areas has been established by the decision of the Stortinget. For the metropolitan area, the Ministry of Transport has chosen to exclude Akershu County Municipality as the applicant, but has given Oslo responsibility for also assessing any measures outside the city border in its application. Does the Council of State see that the different treatment of Oslo and Akershus in this context becomes unreasonable, and will it contribute to a more equivalent opportunity for the two states to solve the transport challenges?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1823	As part of the Government's commitment to better public transport in the cities, the Government of St. reported. No 26 for 2001-2002, the Public Communication, in order to establish a new state reward scheme for public transport in larger urban areas. The scheme shall be in addition to the current collective effort of local authorities. The size joined the proposal. In the 2004 State Budget, the Government proposed to allocate 100 million. kr to the new reward scheme. The budget agreement with the Workers' Party reduced the appropriations to 75 million. kr. The Ministry of Transport proposed in the budget statement to the Stortinget in the autumn that the cities of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger and Kristiansand should be invited to apply for funding from the scheme. This joined Stortinget – including the Center Party. The Central Party did not express the view now expressed, three months later, that it is unreasonable not to invite Akershus on the same lines as Oslo. That being said, I agree entirely with the fact that the border between Oslo and Akershus is an unfortunate barrier to achieving a comprehensive transport policy for the capital area. In transport terms, Oslo, Akershus and several neighbouring states are considered a functional unit. In the short term, this indicates that in the invitation to Oslo to apply for funding from the reward scheme, Oslo cooperates with Akershus for such an application. That's what Oslo did. Akershus has made a thorough contribution to Oslo's application for funds, and several of the proposals that Akershus makes are within Oslo's application. In the longer term, there is a need to go several times further in coordination between the states. I have taken the initiative to set up the Coordination Body for Public Transport in the Central Eastern Region. The coordinating body was established on 1 January with the State, Oslo, Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold as participants. It is my ambition that this body should be given relatively rapid responsibility for public transport in the capital area. By leaving responsibility for, among others. The coordination of tariffs, tickets and grants to a single body is all the way to the coherence of collective provision in the capital area, and we can develop a better, more holistic and competitive collective provision in the capital area. In such an operational public transport coordination body in the central eastern region, it will also be natural to place responsibility for applying for and allocating funds from the reward scheme in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1842	The Council of State says that there were only five selected cities that could apply for these funds, it says ‘in metropolitan areas’ in the communication, and I record that the Council of State itself and the political leadership of the Department of the Media have shown that it was expected that funds for concrete collective projects would be sought in Akershus in the application that came from Oslo. It is true that Oslo has also coordinated, but I note that the Oslo Transport Agency says that the projects pointed to by the Council of State and political leadership are perceived as marginal by Oslo. The question then arises: does this underline the need to change the criteria in the event of a change, so that it is not the specific cities, but the metropolitan areas – all the while the metropolitan areas will also apply to the areas around – and the municipalities in several of these areas that will be responsible for public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1852	This issue is most relevant in view of the future. What is now inside is that the metropolitan area of Oslo was invited to apply, because Oslo had been challenged to take Akershus with him in the design of the application. It was done. At the same time, I was a little surprised that perhaps especially one project that Akershus has stated that they have been very busy getting a solution in collaboration with Oslo, was not included in the application. It surprised me, but it has not been recorded in relation to the application that came. Now this case is not settled, because the funds are not yet allocated. But I'm concerned that it's very important to coordinate the efforts and efforts on public transport in Oslo and Akershus – and I'd like to do a little outside those states as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1859	I will go back to the first question, which perhaps only partially was answered, whether the Council of State will help to ensure that the different treatment of Oslo and Akershus that were the basis of the scheme at the time will not happen next time, by the fact that the scheme will be presented in the event that the metropolitan areas and the counties and municipalities covered by them, who become partners with the departments, and not concrete municipalities – all the while I realize that in the department you are amazed and partly disappointed that you have not taken into account the concerns that should have been taken, by those who have been granted the application authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1864	I would strongly argue that there is no discrimination between Oslo and Akershus when we have asked Oslo to cooperate with Akershus in the design of the application – on the contrary. We've invited you to cooperate to see the whole thing. Now I'm not talking about non-discrimination between Oslo and Akershus, but about seeing things as a whole, see the context. If there's going to be more money going to Oslo and less to Akershus, we'll get back to, because we don't know. But Oslo was invited to take Akershus. It was here as a premise that Akershus would be involved in the application for funds. It was done. I believe that Akershus should perhaps go a little by himself, if it was the right elements that were included in the application. But there are new opportunities here in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1881	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1895	This question has been raised. Questions 27 and 28 have already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1911	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-25.ana.ud1037e1922	There is no record.
