ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e28	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e37	The Frigg field is a joint owned Norwegian-British field where the Norwegian part represents 60,82 pst. The Frigg field devices are composed of three concrete platforms and two steel platforms are connected to pipelines and cables. In addition, a steel chassis was damaged during installation in 1974. On the Norwegian side, there is a concrete platform and a steel platform and in addition the damaged steel chassis. As you know, the country has the right to take over the TCP2 concrete chassis at Frigg, but no area has been found to provide profitable use of the installation at a later stage. In view of the obligations under the OSPAR Convention, i.e. the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic of 1992, consultations have been held with the other Contracting Parties to the Convention. None of these object to the concrete chassis remaining in the field. The Frigg concrete chassis was designed and approved for transport to the field and stationary location for production without taking into account the removal of the installations. Before 1979, there was no requirement for the platforms to be designed so that they would tolerate stresses such as lifting and removing from the field. In this case, however, several different ways of removing the concrete base have been considered, but none of the methods have such a low risk factor that it has been found to be justified in recommending removal. The majority of the committee, all the non-participating members of the Socialist Left Party, agree that, for security reasons, removing the concrete base would not be justified by today's technology. Strict environmental requirements and recovery requirements must be met by removing platforms and cleaning up the seabed in the area. The steel structures and superstructure of the concrete chassis shall be removed and taken ashore. Within a 500-metre zone around the platform, scrap and all installations on the seabed, except for the concrete landing gear, shall be removed and disposed of on land. After completion of this clean-up operation, a radial test with satisfactory results must be carried out before the 500-metre zone can be lifted. All tanks and pipes will be cleaned for hydrocarbon and chemicals, and follow closely to find possible future impurities after production has been completed and the installations have been disposed of. In the light of SFT guideline guidelines, Chapter 10-1, detailed legal requirements have been imposed on environmental monitoring and investigations after production has ended. Based on the results of the studies, the SFT governance will assess the need for action against pollution and any new investigations. The SFT shall operate for good control and follow-up in such a way that, in the short or long term, what the company is allowed to leave in the field does not represent any environmental risk or hazard. The concrete landing gear shall be marked on the relevant chart and navigation equipment shall be installed on the concrete landing gear in accordance with the Coastal Plant specification, in cooperation with the Scottish Northern Lighthouse Board. The legal entities shall be responsible for the operation, monitoring and maintenance of the navigation equipment for as long as the installation can represent a hazard. Removing platforms in the Frigg field requires operations, and it is important that companies responsible for the removal have a high level of competence and can carry out their work in a safe, defence-related and environmentally sound manner. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in this matter and for their recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e58	As the rapporteur mentioned, Frigg is a Norwegian-English-Eid project. Consequently, in the Ministry's assessment of the disposal of the concrete base on the platform, there has been cooperation with the English authorities in the treatment of the closure plan. Based on an overall assessment, taking into account both the technical implementation, the safety of personnel, the environment, the removal costs and the impact on other users of the sea areas, the Government’s recommendation is that the concrete chassis, TCP2, as it is called, be left on site in the Frigg field. It requires the removal and recycling of external steel, flexible pipes and fluorescent tubes, as well as the installation and maintenance of navigation equipment and the marking of the concrete chassis on the charts. The right is behind these conclusions. The rightholders presented in their closing plan five different disposal options, i.e. lifting and reuse elsewhere, or disposal on land or on deep water, cutting the concrete base to 55 metres below the sea surface, or leaving the concrete installation on site. Their recommendation is the last option, which is also in line with what is proposed by the Government, and which is underpinned by an almost collective committee. It is important that this solution has met the international commitments of Norway under the OSPAR Convention, which is the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic. I would also like to point out and underline the comment made by the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea, which is referred to in the proposal, where they support the fact that the concrete base remains on site, and believe that the installation has become part of the ecosystem and thus will not be harmful to fishing resources or other marine wildlife, and that the opposite, namely the partial removal of the installation, can be disruptive to the marine environment and have a negative impact on the environment in general. Finally, I would like to mention that these kinds of cases, the winding-up of fields and infrastructure around them, in a sense, are rather daunting. But luckily, this part of the activity on the base also has its positive sides to business. It is important that, in our industrial environments, we develop further competence in the removal and clean-up of oil installations and have equipment and expertise in large and heavy lifting in such operations. The degree of maturity of our base indicates that this is an increasing market, and then it is important that our industrial companies can be competitive, both as main contractors and as subcontractors, with the ring-effects that this can create.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e73	I'm taking up SV's proposal. I can start by thanking the case spokesperson for bringing together the committee on most things, with the exception of one thing, that's what goes on the concrete chassis. Otherwise, the committee agrees relatively well on what is in the case paper. SV would like one to stop and think about in this matter. You can win a little bit of time by sealing the platform and seeing if you can actually develop a company with technology that makes it possible to remove it. That is why our proposal is that we should make further progress in the area of removal. We're afraid that if the Storing and the Government don't put their foot down at some point, all 16 concrete chassis will be standing in the North Sea. It will be unfortunate according to the SV and the environmental movement's perception. Ekofisk is left, and Frigg is left. One could risk getting a break with a concrete chassis that stands on a Norwegian base, and that is unfortunate in the SV's opinion. As Onarheim pointed out, it is clear that this is a market. Some platforms are recovered and are currently in use. It could also happen with concrete platforms if one uses time and effort to develop technology to move these platforms. Then there may be important jobs and, in addition, there will be a reused concrete in the platforms. We would like to raise a couple of fundamental issues related to responsibility with this matter. One might say that here in Stortinget, we're some of the people who have to pay for it, but in this case, it's going to be so that when the bill for moving a very heavy concrete chassis comes, it doesn't apply to you anymore, because it gets too big and too difficult. Our approach is that then one should have spent a lot more time on this and made sure that the operator was still responsible for the platform where it was standing, and if one found out that it was possible to move it at a later stage, the operator would be responsible for this. SV would also like to go into the problem settings related to whether the operator has to pay the SFT for the various investigations currently taking place. None of the other members of the Committee have addressed these fundamental issues, and SV is therefore all about this. So SV's proposal is that one should seal the concrete base of TCB2 where it says so that it can be removed at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e94	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e97	I am very pleased that the Energy and Environment Committee has joined the Government's recommendation to leave the concrete chassis TCP2 on the Frigg field in accordance with St.prp. No 38 for 2003-2004. The recommendation to leave the concrete base is based on a thorough overall assessment, taking into account technical feasibility, personnel safety, the environment, removal costs and impacts on other marine users. A removal operation involves an unacceptable risk of loss of human life and other damage. The assessment is based on risk analyses carried out and verified by independent technical expertise. In addition, a removal operation is significantly more expensive. The overall environmental impact of leaving the concrete base is also considered acceptable. The proposal to leave the concrete chassis in line with our commitments under the OSPAR Convention. It is a Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment in the North-East Atlantic of 1992. The OSPAR rules open to leave the concrete chassis behind, and consultations with the other Contracting Parties have been held in this respect. None of these had objections to abandonment. Now SV, as the representative Langeland also expressed it in his statement, has made a proposal in the position that work should be started to find recycling applications for the total of 16 concrete substrates in the North Sea. To this I would say that the Government is in favour of re-use if a cancellation operation is risky to carry out. However, the issue is not re-use itself, but whether a cancellation operation can be carried out in a risk-sensitive manner. I also find it worth noting that all the concrete chassis is different and has different properties. This argues that all the concrete chassis, when applicable, must be dealt with separately on a case-by-case basis, as, for example, Total on behalf of the rightholders have done so in a thorough manner in Frigg’s closing plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e110	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e113	I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit in relation to the OSPAR rules. How many of these platforms do the Councils of State have left behind after the OSPAR Convention? Does the Council have a point of view? Secondly, I understand that we are certain that if this is possible, a re-use of these concrete platforms will be possible. SV believes that there will be competence in this, and our proposal is that one should seal the platform and wait a bit and then bet on reuse. Why doesn't the Council of State think so?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e120	I just want to repeat that the government is positive to re-use where re-use first has an application and second, can be carried out without unacceptable risk exposure. In this case, the specialist has considered it an unacceptable risk exposure to propose re-use. It is also entirely in line with the OSPAR Convention to leave the concrete bases behind but to remove the superstructures. I would also like to stress that the rights holders of Frigg have the full and complete responsibility to carry out and cost both environmental studies and monitoring. The operator Total discloses that on behalf of Frigg rating holders they have always followed and will follow the applicable guidelines established by the authorities. When it comes to taking out insurance for future liabilities, I would remind you that it is the rightholders who have the full and full responsibility for future eventualities as well, and they must safeguard their financial interests in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e129	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 224]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e147	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e156	The issue of the extension of the Trollfjord I power plant is a small but important matter. It is small because, in a national perspective, it may not contribute so much power, even though it is for builder, Trollfjord Kraft AS, a significant expansion and represents an increase of 20 pst. in Trollfjord I power plant. For the power situation in the Lofoten region, too, it is a small, but – according to the builder – important contribution to self-sufficiency in crisis and emergency situations. All the monks go, as we know. The majority are concerned that whether this expansion is small in isolation is the overall estimate of the production potential of small power plants between 10 and 15 TWh. I believe that it is in the perspective we need to see this project, and that it as one of many small power plants helps to achieve the goal of improving the power situation in the nation. The majority believe that this must be done through, for example: upgrading and renewal of existing hydropower plants and through the expressed willingness to facilitate the realisation of small power plants. That is why I am very pleased that in this case we have an almost unanimous committee position. Only two representatives of SV have a different view. I'm sorry, but it's not so surprising. SV has hardly been in favour of any realistic power development at all. Should the majority follow their development policy, it would have literally looked dark. But with Langeland's commendation of NVE as a trade union body and their views on the previous case, we can hope that he will change his attitude before voting. As you know, the NVE has recommended the granting of a concession. The government of Stoltenberg in its time opposed this expansion, and the sitting government also did not change this decision in its recommendation for the review request of the developer, Trollfjord Kraft AS. Nevertheless, both the Workers' Party and today's government parties support the developer's requirement to review the refusal of the extension application. With the support of the Centre Party and the Advance Party, this shows that the bulk of the population has a different assessment of the discretionary aspects, in particular related to the ‘natural processes’ of the Blue Sphere, as mentioned in the notification. I would like to claim that similar and much more extensive interventions have been carried out in Trollfjord I in the past, but they have also been carried out without the actual blueprint as such being affected. Both municipal and county political authorities are in favour of the expansion. The requested magazine change at Trollfjordvatt has no objection to any of the hearing bodies other than the action group. The water tunnel of 0,5 metres in diameter to go from water No. 590, which lies below the bridge, shall be drilled through the mountain and into the Ice Water and involves minimal visible physical intervention. Furthermore, today’s river can easily be reestablished if desired in the future. Then we are left with the visual impression of Blue Skavlelva, which can only be seen from a small area by the Higrave Fjord, because it lies inside a narrow valley without paths and traffic. Otherwise, most of this area is inaccessible. The visible consequences of this extension are, therefore, the reduced summer water flow in Blue Skavlelva with approx. 50 pst. A large majority of the Committee has assessed all aspects of this matter and, following an overall assessment, has concluded that the benefits of the extension are greater than the adverse effects and disadvantages of the public and private interests, and that the requirement for review must therefore be complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e179	I will not spend a long time on the matter, but I will also express satisfaction in this matter that it now looks like reason despite all the final victories. Two governments have denied the extension of the Trollfjord I power plant in the Trollfjord watercourse. The reasons for these rejections have been very strange and cannot be characterised as anything but pure symbolism, which unfortunately we have seen too much of in the last of these cases. This case reminds us a lot about the case we had last year, about the extension of the Hateberg watercourse in Rosendal, where there was no real reason for the rejection either. But there had been too much political prestige in the matter that you could use reason and open the way for enlargement. In this case, there has been the certainty – the certainty – that an area that was at all affected by the Blue Shaft, which has been an important reason for the refusals, and of course that the fast route takes the journey into Trollfjord with the tourists. It doesn't matter that you don't see any of this expansion from the fast route. However, the arguments are actively used by the protest industry. As I said at the outset, in this case I am pleased that the majority of the House has seen the light, literally, and put the cabinet in place and met the request for enlargement. It is important that the Storting should now send clear political signals about increased power generation to the industry and to the market. This is a necessity after many years without growth in production, with serious consequences for the balance of power, security of supply and, above all, electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e190	It will eventually show whether the remaining speakers have also seen the light.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e193	Yeah, I guess it's just me left in the dark then. I would like to start by commending the Government on this matter. The government has simply done what SV wanted. So did the government of Stoltenberg. They went against the extension that we are currently dealing with. The government has done a very good job in this matter. One has done what the Workers' Party government meant, and also what this government meant. So something has happened on the road. In a few months' time, a completely different vision has changed, after things got to Stortinget. Suddenly there has been a clear light, and it must have been sharp, in order to change my opinion in such a short time, I know few parties and few governments that manage, as this government has done. But just to rip this up. SV has offered the Regeninga plural in this matter as well, as we have done when it concerns Kjøsnesfjorden, and as we have done in many cases that would do something about the power balance problem. We offer the Regeninga plural for 20 TWh, i.e. the corresponding five gas power plants, by 2010, if the Government will. It's up to the Government. We are done with projects in the field of bioenergy, with energy saving in the process industry, which was reduced in the previous case. We have at all a number of proposals that will provide the necessary energy. In this case, it's very little energy, so blowing this up is very strange. But there's talk of natural intervention, and that's the point. It made sense for the government to say no a few months ago. We should continue to praise the government if it comes with something that can be praised. How does the Government argue in this case? Among other things, one says: ‘... the fact that an area where the Blue Shaft is stirred was the biggest disadvantage and a strong argument against the expansion. After an overall assessment, the Ministry found that nature and the environment had to be given a decisive role. So the ‘decisive weight’ had disappeared in two months. What does this look like? It is, in my opinion, very unlikely. It also says that the department is holding on to the rejection – with a definite hand. Two months later, all the good environmental and natural arguments that blew away with the wind are probably after good working from the Right. I understand that one government party, at least, will support SV in this matter. So they're loyal to the government's policy, like SV, in this case. According to what the Government wrote in its own message, and based on the Sem statement, it is obvious that they could have opposed this. ‘In view of the natural experiences of future generations, there is a restrictive approach to further watercourse development’, says the Sem Declaration. There is no problem to fulfill it today, if you wish. This is at all one of the strangest things I've been up to in my time as a giant representative, where the government strongly argues that nature and the environment count the most, and put forward a case to say no, and then, two months later, none of it counts. This does not hang on to anything! SV is going to go against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e219	Well, I guess most of the last things have come with us. For comfort and encouragement in support of the proposal, one might mention that small is beautiful.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e224	I guess the characteristics were related to the party and not to the person. As has already been made clear from previous speakers here, the application for the extension of the Trollfjord I power plant has been rejected by two governments, both the government of Stoltenberg in December 2000 and the current Cooperative Government. Both governments have concluded that the importance of nature and the environment must be crucial and that the damage and disadvantages to the general interest are greater than the benefits of development. The expansion of current power generation in the area will make a very limited contribution to power generation. This is a relatively small and marginal extension with a low utility factor that does not justify the interventions. The Ministry of Oil and Energy refers to ‘the certainty that an area such as the Blue Sea is at all affected’ as the main disadvantage and a strong argument against development. The bluescotch is one of the few coastal briquettes in the region and is considered an important nature document. The development will be a technical intervention in an intact lettercase and will take from the Trollfjord area its last footfall. The fact that a natural area is difficult to access does not actually make it less important for that reason. Also the unspoiled and at least difficult to access and, for that matter, inaccessible nature is important. If the extension is not shown from the high-speed road surface, it will be clearly visible to pedestrians in some parts of the area. The Directorate for Nature Management points to the importance of the Blue Shaft as the only brigade and brev assimilation in Lofoten. It is of great importance to have a pristine fjord and tidal landscape with breeches and letter strokes. There's a perception the left fully agrees with. The view of the Progress Party on Nature as expressed in an article here, the Left does not agree. And it's possible that it might be difficult, maybe, to some extent, to understand the natural values associated with this area. But I have to say that I also have a little bit of difficulty in understanding the rather modern features of how important this hydropower development is, when you measure it in relation to the hydropower you get out. It is all right – in fact, the Left agrees – that some smaller hydropower deployments are right, where they can be made with a relatively high gain purely energy-efficient and without significant natural interference. But that's not the kind of action we're facing here. Here we are faced with a measure that is very small, but where the natural interventions are not immaterial, especially in relation to what you get out of development. The left therefore supports both the position of the previous Labour Party government, the government of Stoltenberg, and the current government's attitude to reject the application for development. The left is not happy that the other two government parties do not follow the Government’s position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e246	In some cases you meet yourself at the door. I can assure the representative of Langeland that I am very pleased with this and very comfortable with it. Now that we're approaching Easter, it's a good idea to listen to the mountain sweat rule that there's no shame in turning around. This has been done by both the Workers' Party and the government parties here in the house. We have also said in many contexts that we are concerned both with upgrading existing power plants when they are right and expanding, and we will also increase the development of small power plants. We need to increase energy production in Norway and also increase the operational safety of the power system. Now this isn't a big expansion. It has minimal interference in nature, and I agree with the rapporteur that the benefits of this expansion are greater than the disadvantages. In fact, although this is not a major issue, there is an important resource for the local power system in the Lofoten region in crisis and emergency situations. That is why I would like to end up with what the rapporteur has said and, of course, support the majority's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e255	The issue of the extension of Trollfjord power plants is a small matter in hydropower context, but it is therefore all the more controversial. In the Single European Act, the Government has taken the view that consideration of nature and the environment had to be given crucial importance, at the expense of the benefits of increased power generation and better use of the power plant. Such a weighing-up must be based on a discretionary assessment. I note that the majority of the Committee here has a different assessment of matters than the Government, and therefore also reached a different conclusion. The majority of the Committee emphasises the importance of better exploitation of existing hydropower structures through upgrading and expansion projects and the need to give priority to increased deployment of small-scale power stations. The Government has indicated on several occasions that it will facilitate such projects, at the latest in St. Announcement. No 18 for 2003–04, on security of supply for electricity, which is now being addressed here in the United Kingdom. However, this does not prevent such projects from being subject to independent treatment under the concession law. In this way we are told whether the benefits of a project exceed the damage and disadvantages to the general and private interests of a watercourse. It is true, as the majority of the Committee notes, that enlargement will not entail new major technical interventions in the area beyond what is already in place today and that the water flow down to Trollfjord will not change significantly from today's situation. It is not then the technical interventions that have been decisive for the decision of the Government. The critical conditions are mainly related to the Blue Shave and the Blue Shave. The bluescotch is one of the few coastal briquettes in the region and is characterised as an untouched and unique nature. Faced with the very modest increase in power generation expansion, the Government therefore considered that the project could not be supported after an overall assessment. The majority of the Committee has therefore made a different assessment of the situation in the area. I take note of that. The size decision must therefore be followed up by one kgl. Resolution on the extension of Trollfjord in power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e266	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e270	Both this and the previous government rejected the extension application. Today, however, we feel that reason prevails, and that we have a big deal that will meet the application, which I am very satisfied with. I would like to repeat this since the Council of State obviously did not realize that I was also satisfied with the expansion of Kjøsnesfjorden. Now it's not uncommon for this government to get orders from Stortinget. What is particularly important in this matter is that neither the government parties support the Government's view. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether the Government is comfortable with a situation where government parties also run the government, and whether the Government takes self-criticism for the symbolical policy handling of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e277	The President will warn against an excessive level of satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e280	First of all, I would like to express satisfaction that the representative of Vaksdal is obviously in a better mood than what you could get from his contributions to the previous case. It must be possible for the whole Storting to rejoice over. So I would say that I don't believe this case is suitable for trying out the will of Storting and the Government to go in and make sure that we get better security of supply, based on the construction of more power plants. I realize that in this case, there can be good arguments, as the majority have done, for an extension, simply because the technical interventions are small and invisible. On the other hand, as the Government has done, it can be stressed that it is 2,7 GWh per. years, which is a very modest increase in power, and that it has been dealt with in the past by another government, and that therefore, in the face of environmental interests, a higher threshold should be set for the adoption of previous decisions. This is what the Government has joined, and it is on this basis that the Government has given its recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e287	It was good to hear that the government is on its own policy, and that she is then actually outrun by the government party in the Stortinget. That is the reality. The Labour Party says they've turned around. You're good enough for them. But that means that the government thinks that it should have taken care of nature and the environment, and that meant that the government said no, so the majority of people have said no. That means they don't care about nature and the environment, as the government wanted from the big crowd's side. I would like a comment on how the Council of State interprets this. The second point is going exactly on the size, so how small is 2.7 GWh, but it's actually about a big value. That's why SV's starting point is that we now have to get involved in the really big issues, bioenergy, so we're doing something to get energy on a larger scale without breaking the climate policy, where SV and the Government have multiples. It's a challenge. What time should the Government start supporting SV's many good proposals in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e296	As the Council of State moves to the pulpit, the President will only suggest that it may be more gentle to be driven from behind than from behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e299	In fact, I believe that there may not be so many good examples of a government that has been supported in total by the Storing of its parties. It happens that there may be wise and different judgements in a big deal, and a government must respect them. In fact, I don't think that historically is an example of a government that in total has got it as it will, in Stortinget. I would like to say that I am very pleased if I can get away with it as easily as in this case, where the government parties have come to a different conclusion than the government came to, simply because I realize that from the modest technical interventions it is understandable that a different conclusion can be drawn. The government has made a different assessment. Just because it has been a modest power generation, I do not see the whole purpose of overstepping previous decisions in Stortinget and the environmental arguments contained in the pen. But of course I respect the conclusion and of course I'll follow it up with a kgl. Resolution, as I notified in my previous post. Let me say to the important proposals that SV stands for: SV is invited to support the Government's many good proposals in what has to do with environmentally friendly energy, when Stortinget deals with the communication on security of supply. There are several invitations to support government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e306	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e311	When the councillor Norman left, he said in an interview in the paper that what had been of media attention and run against him as a government councillor was storming in a glass of water. He even said that there might be a storm in an empty glass. It's a terrain where Hallgeir Langeland is well known. This is a very, very small case, which cannot be used as an illustration of the fact that there is some fundamental and deep disagreement between the Government and the government parties on the Storting regarding the main challenges related to energy issues in general and hydropower in particular. As the Council of State has explained quite clearly, this is a very small project in terms of power — that means a little in the local region up there — but also in terms of natural interventions. What is very clear in the articles of the Council of State is that we are talking here about balances for different reasons. The term ‘decisive’ in that context, such as: The representative of Langeland places so much emphasis on this, because in reality it means nothing more than that at some point some moments have to decide a matter – and some have become crucial. So he might as well have fallen in the opposite direction, but the majority of the Biggest view this in some other way. There is a balance difference that emerges, not a deep disagreement about the main lines of energy policy and hydropower policy between the government parties and the government. I feel a very strong need to clarify it. It is also right, as the Council of State says, that insofar as government parties have been loyal to their own government on the Stortinget in some way, it must really be those who belong to this fraction – I want to underline that. So this is no big deal. There is a difference in the balance for different reasons that have been made in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e322	I thank you so much for the clarification from the Christian People's Party that they see this as a little matter. I agree, it's a small matter if you look at GWh – power from a water power plant that delivers water to households can produce twice as much power as this. It's a tiny little power plant. But it's nature intervention itself I criticize the Christian People's Party for, that's an important point. As I then interpret the committee leader, I understand that in the coming cases they will follow up the Sem declaration, that the concern for nature and the environment should apply primarily. That means that I can lean back a little bit on issues that go on the web and the birch stream when they come to treatment – then the government will be patent. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e329	How far back the individual representative had to find it too good to spend life, is up to the individual, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e332	I'm going to to the extent of rounding off from my side, I'm not going to draw this anymore than necessary. I just want to say that I am very, very happy that Hallgeir Langeland is calm. I'm very happy about that. If we can contribute to it, this matter lies peacefully and calmly in place where it belongs, as a relatively small matter of different considerations, where the Government has had good arguments for its position, but where there were also good arguments for the opposite. That's what's been the result of the balance there. So the question is what happens in Bjerkreim and Wefsna when that time comes. I'm not gonna stand here and shoot it now. It's not my job to do that. I take note that there are some people in this house who at the degrees of praise the Sem-Declaration basically in every context, so it's Hallgeir Langeland. I don't understand why you're sitting on the exact seat you're doing! Maybe Hallgeir Langeland should be in another party after all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e342	It was probably an appropriate rounding of this debate – several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2225]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e362	Bioenergy has a high potential in Norway. The reason why the Workers' Party has seen it as important to raise this issue in Stortinget is that increased use of bioenergy can both contribute to a better environment and contribute to reducing the current deficit and to developing more good jobs more places in the country. We have a commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. And we're going to do that in a couple of ways. Statistics from the Statistical Central Agency show that the emissions of our three main greenhouse gases have increased by 11pst. in Norwegian municipalities between 1991 and 2001. From 2000 to 2001, emissions increased by 1 pst, mainly due to increased emissions from road traffic, from industry and from heating of dwellings and other buildings. In Oslo, the increase was a total of 6 pst. this year. One of several measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is to replace oil combustion for heating with less polluting energy sources. Oil firing normally contributes seven times as much to global warming as the use of wood pellets. We know that every terrawatt hour of fuel oil that we replace with bioenergy reduces Norway's total greenhouse gas emissions of carbon dioxide by approximately. 1 pst. Biofuels are an environmentally friendly and renewable energy source on which too little effort is made in Norway. As long as we don't use more biomass than natural growth, the supply of fuel will never end. Bioenergy has also historically been an important energy resource and still exists in large parts of the world. While we used to heat and cook, we can now effectively heat ourselves with bark, chips, pellets and briquettes. Today, bioenergy covers about 6 pst. of the total energy needs of Norway. Of this, approx. 6 TWh for heating, mainly for refurbishment. We can't be satisfied with this. In our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, the proportion is up to 20 pst. Norway is a forestry country, and therefore we all have opportunities to invest significantly more in bioenergy. Increased logging extraction is essential if we are to achieve our national heating target. Unutilised possibilities are also linked to offal, straw, manure and methane gas from landfills. Increased use of bioenergy is environmentally friendly. Today, a quarter of the electricity consumption goes to heating. There's a lot of unnecessary, and there's a bad use of power as a resource. The working party therefore believes that it would be sensible to introduce waterborne heat requirements in all new commercial buildings over 1000 m2 not only in public buildings, as it is today. One of the main prerequisites for renewable energy to pay off is for the Government to choose a utility electricity tax model that contributes to this. Now the situation is that several projects have been put on ice or stopped because there is uncertainty about this. I look forward to the Stortinget getting a proposal for a new model in the revised national budget for spring. It is also very important that we put in place the scheme of green certificates as soon as possible. Some research is carried out in the field of bioenergy. However, there is a need to strengthen efforts to research and develop new products. We must also, in cooperation with the agricultural and forestry industries, increase the production of biofuels, while still protecting enough forests to preserve biodiversity. Several sites in the country have already started up exciting bioenergy-related projects. For example, in Hadeland, Oppland, the municipalities of Gran, Lunner and Jevnaker merged into a joint venture on renewable energy. Many residential buildings are heated with pellets, and both schools, horticulture, cereal mills and the forest industry use biofuels. Heathland may be the country most advanced in the field of district heating based on renewable energy. Hamar municipality is a good example in this way. At Rena clay, plans are now being launched to heat up the entire camp and also parts of the Rena center in this way. It's really exciting. Also elsewhere in the country, exciting and new things are happening in the field of pellet production, the construction of district heating systems and the expansion of waterborne heat for heating homes, hospitals, schools and commercial buildings. There are large greenhouse gas emissions from road traffic. In Oslo, for example, road traffic alone responsible for about half of the emissions of these gases in 2001. Mostly emissions from passenger and van cars. In this context, it is very interesting, what is now happening in the development of biodiesel based on plant oil and bioethanol made of wood. Biodiesel and bioethanol may be produced from rape or colza oil, slaughterhouse waste, fish oil, cereals and wood. In other words, there are many possibilities, if one is capable and willing to use it. And these are raw materials that we have a lot of access to here to countries. The EU Biofuels Directive was adopted in May last year. It aims to achieve 2 pst by 2005. of all fuels are bio-based. By 2010, the proportion shall be increased to close to 6 pst. How this is implemented in Norway will affect the development of domestic production capacity and the speed with which we will be able to reduce own emissions in the transport sector. It is also important how the Government follows up the signals of the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, which, in the context of the Climate Change Communication, stated that an introduction programme for the use of biofuels should be implemented in order to increase the volume in Norway. I would like to challenge the Council of State also at this point. Biofuels can be produced from Norwegian raw materials and can provide a solid basis for future industrial development and value creation in Norway. I myself have visited the company Hadeland Bio-Oil AS, which for ten years now has carried out extensive tests and tests using biodiesel. The experience gained suggests that it should be realistic to start biodiesel production on a much larger scale in Norway. The establishments currently in the take-off pit, whether biofuels or other bioenergy, need predictable framework conditions if they are to be able to bet. We have an obligation to facilitate such environmentally friendly solutions as a real alternative. I look forward to hearing the government's strategy to increase the use of bioenergy in Norway – not least for the forest counties Hedmark and Uppland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e421	Bioenergy is an important element both in the Government's commitment to the environmentally friendly conversion of energy supply and in the effort to develop new activities in agriculture and forestry. Increased production and use of bioenergy have therefore been taken into account in the overall strategies for energy conversion and industrial development in the agricultural sector. The overall strategies I refer to should be well known in Stortinget, and are among others. presented in the Communication on security of supply for electricity, as presented by the Government last December, and in the proposals for the 2004 budget by the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Agriculture. Increased provisioning opportunities for heat through a forced expansion of water-borne heat and district heating networks are an important element of the Government's commitment to increasing the production and use of bioenergy. Enova aims at triggering new environmentally friendly energy production and energy saving of a total of 10 TWh per year. years by 2010. Enova has estimated that about 5 TWh per year. years will be new heat production and that significant quantities of this will have to be covered by more and better use of biofuels. Enova recently submitted the annual report for 2003. It shows very good results for the energy conversion combined and bioenergy in particular. During 2003, Enova supported projects with a contractual energy target of a total of 1.8 TWh of new energy production and energy saving. The results are distributed with 450 GWh wind power, 424 GWh energy use and 953 GWh heat. That is, heat represents the entire 52 pst. of the overall result. Of these, 675 are GWh bioenergy, of which 370 are biofuel production. The increased fuel production corresponds to an annual production of about 100000 tonnes of biofuels. Bioenergy was the dominant single source of energy conversion last year, in 2003. This means that bioenergy is well preserved within the framework of Enova’s grant of aid. In addition to Enova’s established instruments, an immediate arrangement with households was initiated in the last winter in connection with the power situation. The scheme was an offer to those households that wanted to do something with their energy supply. The scheme offered support for the installation of heat pumps, electric heating control systems and pellet stoves. So far, there's every reason to be satisfied with the results. A total of 46 000 households have received support and it is expected that as many as 19 500 will agree to support and implement measures. It has been shown that most people were looking for and receiving support for the heat pump. Unfortunately, there were only a few who used the opportunity to obtain pellet stoves or power management systems. The energy performance and market changes provided by the scheme will now be evaluated. In the Electricity Security Notice, the Government announced a new commitment to the development of heating infrastructure. The proposed scheme will be added to Enova’s commitment to achieve the objective of 4 TWh per. year waterborne heat based on new renewable energy sources, waste heat and heat pumps. The aim of the scheme is to improve the conditions for large-scale heat production, which are currently hampered by a weakly developed infrastructure. The aid scheme will provide for a general improvement in the framework conditions for the establishment of district heating, thereby improving the availability of environmentally friendly heat that requires such infrastructure. In addition to bioenergy, this will, for example: could be heat from waste incineration and waste heat from the power-intensive industry. Enova’s established heat programme and the new investment in heat infrastructure contribute to an increase in the demand for environmentally friendly fuels, such as bioenergy. In order to take advantage of the economic potential, and to ensure an adequate supply of biofuels, separate measures are in place to address the supply side of the bioenergy market. The Government has set in its main communication on security of supply for electricity the objective of increasing access to biofuels, in order to achieve the other objectives of environmentally friendly heating. Biofuel availability could be increased in different ways. In addition to increased extraction of forest fuel, there could be room for redistribution and more efficient use of already available fuel resources. Biofuels processed, such as: pellets are suitable for transport over greater distances, which facilitates both export and import. In 2004, Enova has launched a targeted investment in biofuels, thus establishing its own bioenergy processing programme. The aim of the Programme is to promote the development of an efficient value chain for the processing and marketing of biofuels. The programme focuses on actors who want to develop long-term business activities within the value chain for processing and trade in biofuels. This means the construction of capacity for extraction, transport, processing and trade of biofuels on an industrial scale. Bioenergy investment in the Ministry of Agriculture budget has increased from 15 million. SEK in 2003 to 18 million. kr in year. In the draft budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, St.prp. No 1, among other things, it is called: within the framework of long-term sustainable management, there is the potential to increase the use of biomass resources from agriculture for energy purposes. Increased use of bioenergy will help to strengthen and maintain the value creation of agriculture. The reinforced contribution to bioenergy in agriculture aims to increase the supply and use of bioenergy from agriculture and forestry. At the same time, it is assumed that the investment provides the basis for the development of agriculture as a total supplier of bioenergy solutions. I would also like to point out that, in the long term, research and development is important in order to produce new environmentally friendly and efficient energy solutions, including bioenergy solutions. In the new programme to the Norwegian Research Council, RENERGI, renewable energy sources and energy production without emissions are an important field of activity. New technologies and new knowledge are important for creating new competitive solutions that can challenge the established. This also applies to bioenergy. Bioenergy use in transport can be stimulated by various measures. For example, car diesel, CO2 and sulphur taxes are not levied for biodiesel, which gives diesel a competitive advantage. In May 2003, the EU adopted a Directive on the promotion of the use of biofuels and other renewable fuels for transport. The Act is currently under consideration in the Departments Special Committee on Energy, and the Government will come back to this matter once we have been assessed whether the Directive will be a relevant and effective measure for Norway. I agree with the interpellant that increased use of bioenergy is an important environmental measure. I will again be shown that the Government's commitment to energy conversion brings good results, and that both increased production and use of bioenergy are well maintained within the overall energy conversion strategies and the development of new activities in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e455	I thank the Council of State for the article and the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State shows the willingness to invest even more in bioenergy. But on some points here I would like to have a slightly clearer answer. One was one of the last things the Council of State addressed, namely the EU Directive, which I understand is for consideration in the Special Committee of the Government, and whether the Council of State may say a little more precisely when he intends to come to Stortingen with that matter, because I think it's a little urgent. The second is that on the part of the Workers' Party, we have no problems with putting two lines below it in the security of supply notice, which concerns bioenergy, for example. in the case of district heating infrastructure, so we shall clearly agree on that. We have agreed on the money for Enova also for this purpose. But what is also important is that one is now able to get more projects going – and get more projects going around the country – now on ice, because it is unclear what happens to the electricity charge in relation to business. The government is going to bring it back in the revised national budget, but can we expect the government to add to a model that makes it attractive to continue with many good solutions now, in order to make good use of bioenergy and district heating, and to get much more projects going? The last thing I would like to have a clearer answer to is the pace of the introduction programme that the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment has addressed in the Climate Change Communication. I did not hear that the Council of State responded to that in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e464	There were three important points raised by the representative Sylvia Brustad. I'll try to answer as best I can. With regard to the Biofuels Directive, as I said in my post, it is for the treatment of the Special Committee on Energy in the Government. These are quite demanding issues. Initially, one has to be positive to implement this. But question No. 1 is: is it EEA-relevant, so we have to implement this? Secondly, does it have cost-effective solutions? The adjacent ones, let's say, the policy areas, to which the biofuels directive relates, are energy, it's environment, and it's agriculture. All three related departments are now assessing how they view the biofuels directive in relation to its relevance for implementation. It is important that environmental policy targets cost-effective solutions, and it is not obvious that the implementation of the biofuels directive will provide us with the most cost-effective solutions without delay. Nor is it that security of supply and the energy component of this best manageable through the biofuel problem, and then the interest in agriculture remains. So these are issues that the government has not yet concluded on, but which are going through. But I can tell you that we're in the middle of a process, and all of these things are being evaluated. In the case of the new electricity tax regime, which will apply from 1 July 2004, there is a very good process in the Government. I also refer to what was said in the 2004 budget and that we have now had to consult the Danish and Swedish models respectively. Work will now be very focused on drawing a conclusion. It is important for the Government and for those to deal with this, that a robust, long-term system is created and therefore takes the necessary time to assess these choices. But the answer comes, as announced, in the revised national budget. When one finally also deals with this with the introduction program for biofuels, I will refer to my article. I would also like to point out that there is no charge for car diesel, CO2 or sulphur taxes for biodiesel, and this may be accompanied and stimulated for increased demand. Increased production will be ensured through a targeted effort by the Ministry of Agriculture, and any new measures must also be seen in the light of the mentioned EU Biofuels Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e475	At the end of January of this year, I asked the Council of State a written question about progress in the implementation of the EU directive on the introduction of biofuels. Still, there's no explanation of that, we heard recently. But if you want to hear what I and many in the Workers' Party think, I think it would be relevant and useful for Norway to have this implemented in Norwegian law. It is amazing, in the case of an active and practical organisation of biofuels, that it is used more than 6 million. kr for tests on hydrogen production, while hesitant to facilitate the broad production of biofuels. Hydrogen is probably not realistic on a very large scale in Norway before about 25 years, while bioenergy is almost outside the living room door. There is no need to challenge the introduction of biofuels in Norway. We're actually the only country in Europe that does, if I ignore Liechtenstein, which I don't think is so much to care about in this context. I also see that the oil and petroleum lobby has its interests to care for, and they are probably working quite actively against phase-in of biofuels. However, the development of the biofuels market has many positive environmental elements, as well as a production value over a decade of perhaps up to NOK 4–5 billion. The introduction of biofuels provides better climate accounts, provides value added in districts and gives agriculture an additional activity. It simply means good environmental and business development by hand. Foreign Norway will spend about 800 million. EUR for the next five years on our EEA ticket. This will mainly go to the new countries and to environmental measures. Article 33 says that the promotion of renewable energy is an important field of activity, and Poland will therefore receive very much of this money. And they work for hard life with just biodiesel production. So why do we hesitate in Norway? We have a company established in Hadeland, Habiol, which has now operated for over ten years with development work, testing etc., and which is actually ready to start planning a biodiesel plant. The development of the biofuel production environment will mean a new industry sector in District Norway. If the government is concerned that Inland-Norway will get more bones to stand on, they should contribute to the development of nutrition, so I think they can take a stronger grip on the phase-in of bioenergy and biofuels. Also in Hadeland, which is the region most advanced in Norway in terms of bioenergy, including among others. The energy park, Habiol and BIOREG, should provide a national competence centre, a region of competence for bioenergy. It is already a close cooperation with NTNU and NLH, but now the state must also want to do so. Coast Norway has kerosene and fish, and Inland Norway – Hedmark and Uppland – should receive bioenergy, with a slightly larger bet and a slightly larger strain from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e492	The Sylvia Brustad Interpellation and the Council of State contributions focus on an important aspect of the Government’s commitment to new renewable energy sources. It is beyond doubt that we have quite a lot of reserves by using biofuels, especially for heating via district heating. Both in the climate notification setting and in the setting of subsequent notifications, a majority have pointed to the potential use of biofuels to reduce climate impacts and as a contribution to our security of supply. It is important that framework conditions are provided for the increased use of district heating based on biofuels for heating larger buildings, and so that this can be profitable for the builder. According to Enova’s annual report, 370 GWh came from new biofuel production in 2003. This corresponds to an annual production of about 100000 tonnes of biofuels. This will be an important contribution to production and industrial activity in our domestic countries. In order to maximise efficiency in the use of biofuels, pellet and briquette production will be central. Pellets do it, for example. the ability to distribute biofuels over longer distances, cost-effectively, and in a good way. It is gratifying that for 2004 targeted work has been undertaken to promote the development of an efficient value chain for the processing and marketing of biofuels. In order to achieve a satisfactory economy in such projects, great attention needs to be paid to both production and logistics. The interpellant also refers to the EU Directive and the incorporation of bio into fuel. In its statement, the Council of State informed that this Directive is being discussed in the Ministry and that he will return to the Stortinget with an assessment of whether this would be appropriate in Norway. There are already incentives to use biodiesel in the transport sector. Our energy situation is vulnerable. This was discussed in the General Communication on security of supply. It is important that we now assess all possibilities for creating a robust energy supply system. From this point of view, biofuels could be an important field of activity in interaction with our other energy sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e509	It is claimed by the interpellant that increased use of bioenergy is an important environmental measure and that the development of environmentally friendly district heating based on biofuels will improve the situation of power supply and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I understand very well that the Labour Party and the representative Brustad are concerned about the situation in the power supply, but they have to thank themselves for this worrying situation. What has the Workers' Party and the representative Brustad done to improve the power supply? Not the things of the world. Over the past eight to ten years, the lot has ensured that all major power projects in Norway have either been severely reduced or rejected. Upper Otta, Salt Mountain, Svartisen and Sauda are examples of this. Most probably also remember former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's New Year speech, where he concluded that the time for hydroelectric development in Norway is over. The working party and Brustad also claim to be trailers of power generation based on gas. At the same time, the same batch is more Catholic than the pope in terms of emissions of so-called greenhouse gases, which has also been expressed here today. The working party and the representative Brustad will soon have to take it inward that this is not related. Instead of taking self-criticism for its lack of energy policy and doing something about it, today we experience that we want to bet on bioenergy ‘to improve the situation in the power supply’, as it is called so fine in the interpellation. I have difficulty taking this seriously. Of course, it may seem positive to bet on bioenergy, like other forms of energy, but we need to focus much more on cost-effective solutions rather than on what is in time or politically correct. Both in the short and medium term, only increased power generation, based on either water or gas, will provide us with sufficient energy, balance the market and secure supply. There's no way out of this. Soon both the Workers' Party and the Government will have to take this inwards before the supply fails.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e518	Interpellant demand the Government’s strategy to increase the use of bioenergy in Norway. Here I am not as satisfied as the Council of State seems to be, but at least SV offers drag help. Today, early on, we promoted a Document No. 8-proposal for measures for 4000 new jobs through increased investment in bioenergy. Following the removal of the differentiated employer fee, there has been a need, especially in the districts, for a more active industrial policy. Moreover, large fluctuations in electricity prices have led to the need for measures that increase the flexibility of energy supply and have a stabilising effect on the electricity price. In order not to import highly polluting coal power, we do not have to go about costly and climate-depleting gas power. There are better and more reasonable solutions that provide at least the same amount of energy and many more profitable jobs. Today Norway produces 16 TWh bioenergy, or about 6 pst. of total energy production. Proposals will initially have this share of 10 pst. by 2010. Bioenergy is a future-oriented form of energy because it is based on new renewable energy sources. The industry still needs drag, because development is too late. Many consumers of electricity and heat are today locked to other sources, such as electricity and oil firing, through established competences and existing technologies. This technological locking means that bioenergy starts with clear disadvantages in relation to other rival energy systems. Therefore, SV proposes that all new buildings, new residential areas and renovations over 1 000 m2 should not only be expanded with waterborne heat. We propose that the revised national budget for 2004 should include a State loan guarantee scheme for the construction of waterborne heat infrastructure. We propose to draw up an action plan for the phased conversion of fossil fuel heating to heating with new renewable energy sources, with a target of 50 pst. conversion by 2008 and 80 pst. by 2012. We're proposing to set off 10 million. kr for development of competence in the field of bioenergy in the revised national budget. We are proposing an action plan for the industrialisation of bioenergy in Norway, and we are proposing the implementation of the EU Biofuels Directive and the implementation of a stepping-up plan for the use of biofuels. We propose to introduce support schemes that make people less dependent on electricity for heating, similar to those introduced in Sweden. And we propose to extend the House Bank's support schemes for the installation of water and airborne heat, so that at least as many house-funded houses are built with flexible heating as they do in the housing market. Of course, SV calls on both the Government, the inter-pellant and the Workers' Party to support the proposals, which are now being discussed in the Energy and Environment Committee. The budget-mates, the government parties and the Workers' Party forgot to bet on bioenergy in the state budget last autumn. But after this debate, I expect it to be settled in the revised national budget for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e534	It was referred to Jens Stoltenberg's famous speech during the contribution of the representative, Waksdal, where he stated that the era of the major hydroelectric power projects was now over. I think, unlike the Waksdal, that Jens Stoltenberg gave a very good speech, because it triggered a focus on the new challenges and opportunities we have to remain a nation with clean and renewable energy, one thought alternative to hydropower. It was in many ways a groundbreaking speech. I am very pleased with the presentation by the Council of State about the government's strategy, which I see as very offensive, not only in terms of bioenergy, but also in terms of achieving overall and good solutions and energy policy plans for new renewable energy. I am also very pleased that Sylvia Brustad has signaled that she still wants to support the choices and strategies that lie, among other things. in the security of supply notification. However, let me say that it is important to get a clarification on green certificates and the electricity charge. There are two extremely important instruments that we now need to get on the table in order to trigger the potential of new renewable energy. I am very pleased that the Council of State is so clear that you are well on track in relation to the electricity charge. It is an important signal to send out on a market waiting for clear signals. As far as the issue of new renewable energy is concerned, it is my absolute belief that next to the hydropower we have, and the potential we have for careful expansion and modernisation, future growth in energy supply must be covered as far as possible with new renewable energy. That is the starting point of the Christian People's Party, and that is also the starting point of the Council of State, although we see, of course, that gas power with CO2 management will also have an impact in the future. But the gas power question itself, just as the introduction from Sylvia Brustad was, is probably the only piece that really separates us from the perspective of the energy supply strategies in the future. I am pleased that we are at least united on priorities in relation to new renewable energy. The alliance is very important to build to make future policy decisions robust.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e546	It's good to have an interpellation on a topic as important as bioenergy. Some of us live a little bit further from gas and oil than others. We're from the interior, so we're very happy with this interpellation. The centre party finds that the investment in bioenergy has not reached the high altitudes. On the other hand, we note that Norway's CO2 emissions are increasing over time. If it doesn't change much, it's due to an overrun of our Kyoto target with about 15 pst. in 2010. And of course, if the three gas concessions were to be expanded, it would be even worse. One of the reasons that the investment in bioenergy is currently hesitant is that the government is constantly talking about bioenergy, but has not been willing to put in place the measures needed to get good results. For bioenergy, drag needs help. As we know, we have an import need of at least 5-7 TWh in a normal year and much higher need in a dry year. There may also be reason to mention that the force we are introducing is largely coal-fired and that it will be more expensive when the EU CO2 emission directive is introduced from 1 May next year. It can also be mentioned that the net consumption of electricity has begun to increase again. Net consumption in February this year was 7.9 pst. higher than last February. It's hardly right to blame the extra anniversary of the year for all of this. This may indicate that we are on our way back to old paces, and then it's important that we look at our neighbors. What is Sweden and Denmark doing now? For several decades, they have pursued a policy of comprehensive measures to replace electricity with other energy carriers in the heat market. Large amounts of bioenergy and high taxes on electricity, fuel oil and natural gas have been introduced. These framework conditions have caused the electricity share for heating to fall to approx. 18 pst. in Sweden and up to 6 pst. magazines in Denmark. In Norway, this proportion is still at 70pst. Clear and predictable instruments are therefore needed if we are to succeed in this area. The exemption from the electricity charge has now given a total stop in the development of alternative heat. I'm glad the Minister of Energy was in the middle of this. He said at least that we should get a robust system, and then we'll wait and see what it is. I would also mention that green certificates should apply to heat. Enova does a good job, but they also need drag help. Eli Arnstad said in the nations a few days ago that they depended on good cooperation with private and public actors. The Minister of Energy should therefore come back to Stortinget as soon as possible with a statement, with concrete proposals on how to strengthen the bioenergy effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e563	Greenhouse gas issues may be one of the main policy challenges we face. Fortunately, the Kyoto negotiations resulted in Norway having important challenges related to significant reductions in greenhouse gases. The reduction of energy consumption from fossil energy sources is important in this respect. At the same time, increased hydropower deployment is not the answer to the energy demand related to the reduction of fossil fuels and the increase in energy demand. In this perspective, the theme that the interpellant has addressed is very important. We have large unused heat resources that are not used. The left is therefore convinced that the most important step that needs to be taken now is to start using unused heat resources, whether it is waste heat or it is bioenergy from agriculture and forestry. In brackets, the worst Norway can do is increase the use of fossil energy sources such as oil and gas, with associated increased greenhouse gas emissions. Increased use of bioenergy is essential to succeed in establishing a market in Norway for heat based on other than hydropower and oil or gas. The government has now signaled the introduction of an electricity charge as of 1 July. It is a necessary measure. The left has a strong desire that the new charge will be an even greater incentive to replace high-quality electricity for heating with other energy sources. There is no doubt that prices and charges stimulate behaviour. It showed last year's price shock on electricity to the full: never has it been produced and used as much bioenergy as last winter. It is also important to have support schemes that stimulate increased commercial production and use of bioenergy. It has established this Government, both through the Enova and the Bioenergy Programme of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is managed by Innovation Norway. Increased use of bioenergy serves several purposes: it provides forest owners with new income opportunities; it helps to release electricity so that electricity can be used for other, more high-value purposes, and it can replace the use of fossil energy such as oil and gas and thus reduce greenhouse gas emissions. There is little doubt in the process of reducing greenhouse gas emissions that the transport sector is the sector in which activity and, consequently, emissions are increasing. The left has a vision of Norway going ahead to convert the transport sector into a zero-emission sector, using hydrogen as a fuel. But it's a vision that's not being realized tomorrow. Pending this, ethanol is involved in petrol, biodiesel to replace standard diesel, the most targeted one can use to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e580	The effort has been and is too small in terms of using renewable energy. It is a fact that energy production is often a major burden on the environment, including: through greenhouse gas emissions, as previously mentioned here today. Globally, the global society is facing very large and complex measures to prevent man-made climate change. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the global average temperature has risen. A report from 2001 estimates a global temperature increase of 1.4 to 5.8 °C that is likely to occur over the next 100 years, resulting in the highest average temperature of 150000 years. This is serious. I get the consequences in this context. Our part of the world has a great responsibility, including Norway. As a major consumer of non-renewable energy sources and energy consumption at the global summit, we are therefore responsible for looking at the alternatives. We have also committed ourselves to the Kyoto Protocol. At the same time, analysis by the International Energy Agency, the IEA, suggests that the consumption of coal in the world is increasing and will increase in the future. Energy consumption is increasing, and the EU Commission has a role to play in promoting nuclear power through the Euratom Treaty. This must be counteracted. When I draw these comments, it is because I am involved in the work of the Nordic Council, as head of the Environment and Energy Committee there, in the development of the Nordic countries and of Europe. But from the international to our secret arena. Interpellation highlights the need for action in our country. We have one too little effort for bioenergy. As already mentioned in the debate, there are several initiatives in Norway. Møre and Romsdal Biofuel on Averøya have very well-worked plans through 100 pst. the recovery of energy by processing virgin works for pelleting and the use of waste wood with a volume calculated up to 450000 tonnes, corresponding to a production of 2,16 TWh and a price of approximately. Forty-five cents a day. kWh. The challenge to the Council of State is to ensure that, inter alia: Enova and other sources of state funding act so that such projects as I have mentioned here, and others mentioned today, actually come to the right place and are put to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e599	SV and I are very happy that we now finally have a debate on bioenergy. And if I can say a little bit about the first part of the last speaker's posts, it's that I very much agree with that. So there's no need to contaminate any more. It is dangerous to contaminate more, and there is no need to contaminate more to get enough power. No further CO2 emissions are required in Norway for more power. It is not necessary to import polluting coal power in order to obtain sufficient power in Norway. It is a reality. Not enough with that, if as a nation we are now doing what we did when we became a hydropower nation, and what we did when we became an oil and gas nation, that is, seeing an opportunity and putting real effort on it, then we can get out of this with far more sustainable legs to stand on, with environmentally friendly technology developed in areas of the country that otherwise do not have so much of the technology development, and we can get out with a lot of environmentally friendly green jobs spread across the country. This is actually something far more than an environmental and energy policy cheek egg. Norway is too dependent on gas and oil. Everyone agrees. We need more environmentally friendly legs to stand on, and we need a more balanced technology development in the country. By investing, and investing properly, in alternative energy sources, and especially in bioenergy, we will achieve a different balance in this, and we will get more legs to stand on both economically and technologically. And it's the whole country's earned. Then it is not to be avoided that in a debate raised by the representative Sylvia Brustad on bioenergy, we have to ask ourselves why the strong commitment of Sylvia Brustad to gas power in the world comes out in this debate. For it is a reality that investing in gas power is environmentally indispensable and generates pollution, that it is completely unnecessary and that, in addition to that, it will simply exclude a biotechnology effort that will benefit the inland world. And that is because, of course, this is also a battle for subsidy crowns. So if we're going to make such a commitment that we have to have in place if bioenergy is to get the necessary volume to provide the environmentally friendly energy we need, we have to make sure that we use the subsidy crowns on the environmentally friendly, job-friendly and district friendly solutions and not to get gas power plants that will increase our environmental problems, and that will make us even more dependent on what we're too dependent on from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e608	I am pleased that this debate shows that there is a very broad consensus, with the exception of the Progress Party, on investing more in bioenergy in Norway, and that is important. We need it for the environment, we need it for the sake of creating more jobs, not least in Inland Norway, and we need it too because it's a contribution to doing something about the power deficit. But then there is no reason to hesitate. And I will still challenge the Council of State to show a little more action. I see that it's very good going on. It will receive the Workers' Party's support. But it is also the case that, when it comes to the issue of the biofuels directive, I heard, in addition to the state council saying that it was working in the government, that there were also a lot of counter-conceptions about implementing it. I have to say from the Labour Party that it is important both to bring it forward and to implement it, because it will have an impact on domestic production capacity, and it will also have an impact on the speed with which emissions in the transport sector can be reduced. We know that the transport sector is one of those that emits a lot of substances that we don't want. So I take it for granted that the Council of State, when he comes up with the electricity charge and what happens to it in the revised national budget, has a scheme that stimulates much greater use of bioenergy than what unfortunately has now stopped, and that also the pace of green certificates is high, so that we get it introduced as soon as possible. Then to the Progress Party. Unlike the Progress Party, the Labour Party is able to have two thoughts in its head at once. And I must say that it is quite unreasonable to accuse the Workers' Party of not doing any of the world's things with the power deficit in Norway. Then, with all due respect, I have to say that the Progress Party has followed very poorly in the hour. The working party has done something both in terms of hydropower deployments and not least in terms of gas power – where we have had an incredible deal, but we welcome it – and also in order to create Enova and get a lot of money into alternative energy sources, such as energy sources. bioenergy. With regard to the representative Karin Andersen and SV, I take note that she chooses to so doubt my involvement with the Workers' Party in order to increase the use of bioenergy. I think that's really sad, because I think the Working Party and SV at this point can agree on a lot. There is no contradiction in the fact that, in addition to wanting to have an increased investment in bioenergy, the Workers' Party is also engaged in building gas power plants to reduce the power deficit and thus lower electricity prices, and I would warn against constructing contradictions between regions in the country. We need both increased use of bioenergy and more gas to bring down the electricity price both for people and for businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e621	I think this has been a very interesting and good debate. I'm happy for all the posts and for the engagement. Neither where perhaps someone would say that one sends a greeting home to the different states, do I have any problems seeing that this just belongs closely with a good district policy. I think it is good that the representatives actually draw attention to the fact that there is both commitment and initiative in the counties that can be exploited in favour of increased use of bioenergy. Bioenergy use has seen a significant increase and growth in recent years, but it is also evident that the potential is much greater than we have so far been able to exploit. The reasons why we're betting on bioenergy should be obvious. Bioenergy is environmentally friendly, makes Norwegian energy supply more robust, ensures good use of unused biomass and has meaning for the district, as I said, and for forestry. I'm sure there's other benefits. Only a few brief notes to some of the posts. I agree with what Mr Brørby said about the importance both for the district and for the environment, as I have said. I don't think the comparison between our hydrogen investment in relation to biofuels is entirely interrelated. Because hydrogen is not an energy source, but an energy carrier and has a completely different perspective, these shouldn't be set up against each other. Neither do I think oil against biofuels should be set up as in conflict, and at least it is not the oil company that threatens the introduction of biodiesel or biofuels. This is very much about cost-effectiveness. I'm not hiding that. Can we defend the funds that need to be invested for increased use of biofuels, through the implementation of the Directive, or are there other and more cost-effective means that bring us closer to the goal? For the environment is an important part of this. I also welcome the invitation from Ingvild Vaggen Malvik regarding new jobs. In fact, I think that is a great potential in terms of workplaces for increased biofuel production. In the case of Inger S. Enger's articles, I would also be a little careful to refer to the polluting coal power of all imports of power. It's probably slightly more varied. Among other things, both nuclear power and hydropower are included. on imports from Russia. No one is asking the Storting for a statement on how to strengthen bioenergy use. I think this inter-pelling debate is a good start, and a good continuation will be when the Storting will deal with the default message on security of supply. We'll see what comes out of it, but I'll set up when Stortinget asks me to come back, possibly, with a renewed mission in terms of the use of bioenergy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e638	The examination of case No. So 13 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e644	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e652	During the debate, Mr Ågot Valle, Member of the Presidency, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposals are made for a registration system for those who seek out the Storting on behalf of themselves or others in order to influence the Storing in matters for consideration.’ An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the presidency's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e749	During the debate, Mr Rød put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e800	There is an aberrant proposal here, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 2 shall be replaced by the following:The College shall act as the Board of Governors of the National Audit Office and shall deal with matters of general application and economics. The main task of the college is to deal with professional matters to be submitted to the Stortinget. The Board of Auditors is the senior official of the Agency and is its Executive Director in all matters relating to administrative, economic and professional matters. The college lays down a detailed job instructions for the post.» Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e1095	During the debate, Martin Engeset has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, and it is included on page 14 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e1169	There is an aberrant proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The statements of the State accounts for 2002 concerned: Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, Case 1 Ministry of Defence, Cases 1 and 2 were decidated in accordance with the report of the National Audit Office.» Alternatively, between the Committee's setting and the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e1502	During the debate, Mr Rød put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. There will be a vote first on this proposal, which reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and assess a significant increase in train sections offered and a transition from a framework agreement with only a company, NSB, to a non-discriminatory system of different transport groups that will offer its services on the road, air, sea and railway lines.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e1517	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e1524	It seems that many have voted incorrectly. So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e1565	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to create a package of measures to realise the energy saving potential of 5.3 TwH in the process industry, to which PIL and ENOVA have pointed.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e1598	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set in motion a work to re-use their 16 concrete chassis in the North Sea as a whole and technology developments to ensure the environment, quality and safety of the removal and return of the platforms. Pending this work and further clearance of the Frigg field, the TCP2 concrete landing gear shall be sealed where it is stated.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e1636	The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party and the Left here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e1659	There is no voting theme in case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11-2.ana.ud2127e1670	There is no record.
