ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e32	It's set up today's evening meeting, but it may be that we'll be done at the morning meeting, so the president will consider proposing to extend the morning meeting to make it possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e37	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Odelsting meeting today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e42	I suggest Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e47	Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik are unanimously elected as presidents of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e66	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e75	It has been a challenging and interesting task to be the case rapporteur for such a comprehensive and important piece of law as the Odelstinget is dealing with today. There has been relatively extensive legislative work in advance of the Committee's consideration of the matter. The proposition covers at the top of 250 pages. In addition, it's a NOU of about the same size. The Committee has conducted both seminars and hearings on the matter, as well as a significant exchange of letters with the Ministry to clarify some important issues. The competition law of a country is an important and necessary matter for the elected representatives to deepen. Through the law and the policy pursued in this area, we shall ensure that market players compete to offer the best products, prices and quality to the consumer, taking into account. From this perspective, we need to have a law that goes with development, and the necessary resources in the Competition Authority, to do a good job. One of the main objectives of a competition law is to safeguard consumers’ rights. At the same time, however, the law must ensure legal certainty for businesses offering their goods and services in the market. There is a lot of agreement between all parties on this issue, but there are also some political lines of division. The majority, which stands together for most of the law, consists of the government parties and the Progress Party. With regard to the paragraphs in which we do not agree with the government parties in the vote, the Progress Party will vote subsidiaryly for the proposals of the government parties if the proposals of the Progress Party fall – this as an introduction to the matter. So a little bit more about the individual parts of the law. In a competition law, consideration for the consumer is very central. The majority have therefore agreed to take into account the interests of the consumer also in the purpose clause of the law. As far as the purpose of the law is concerned, it seems to me that the minority of the committee is raising a debate on the launching of competition and privatisation. I think this is going to be wrong. As I see it, the Competition Act regulates competition between undertakings and not whether public services should be exposed to competition. We have therefore little chosen to go into this discussion. At the heart of this case is the fact that the legal code of conduct is now harmonised with Articles 53 and 54 of the EEA Agreement. This will allow EU and EEA law to be used as a heavy source of justice in the work on Norwegian competition policy. It is reasonable to assume that this could make it easier for both competition supervision, courts and business to do so, given that there is a level playing field and some restrictions on spedic practices. Of the individual provisions, I would like to draw particular attention to Section 10 and the possibilities referred to in this section as so-called ‘group exemption’ from the legislation. In this area, the majority clearly states that a more stringent practice is needed, that a more restrictive approach is needed to grant block exemptions. With regard to the second paragraph of Section 3, which refers to agriculture and fisheries policy, these industries have had a clear wording in previous versions of the Act to grant exemptions. This is now being amended to allow the King of State Council to grant exemptions necessary for the implementation of the agricultural and fisheries policy. Here's a little incursion in the setting on page 33. The note on the basis of which the Progress Party was supposed not to participate, but we give our subsidiary support to the view that is being promoted. The Progress Party will refer here to its own special comments, which are mentioned from the end of page 34. Here we state that farmers in agriculture and fisheries policy should be treated as much as possible as other traders. We therefore believe that these should be exempted from the competition law as far as possible. With regard to the tasks of competition authorities, this chapter is mentioned in the suspension, inter alia: the obligation to provide guidance and clarifications in advance. In the event of an incurrency, a comment and a proposal from the majority in this area have ended at the bottom of page 43 and at the top of page 44, where the majority refers to a supplement in section 9 which imposes a duty to provide guidance on competition supervision. As regards the structural rules, there is broad agreement that there should be substantial restrictions on competition which should be the basis for intervention. There is also some expansion in relation to the need to be able to intervene in some cases in the future in the case of minority services. I would like to point out here that the Committee clearly states that it is important to take into account, in the design of regulations and practices, that the new law should not lead to matters which can be regarded as small or debatable, ending up with a large and comprehensive procedure. I must also stress that changes to, among other things, § 19 will be of benefit to the business community by imposing stricter requirements on the proceedings of the Competition Authority. This, like the rest of the committee, seems to be very good. I must also stress that we assume that regulatory work requires the greatest possible standardisation and that communications to supervision should be made as much as possible by electronic means. I would particularly like to draw attention to sections 3 to 12 of the applicable Competition Act, which have been continued in the new fourth paragraph of Section 16. It must be emphasised that it is important not to base a narrow market definition on interpretation of the law. Our aim is not to weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. We state that the market boundaries of competition authorities must be based on an assessment that takes into account the market conditions prevailing for the sector in which the activity is involved. If, for example: is a functioning Nordic market, this must be taken into account. With regard to company services rules, it must be clear that we want to avoid unnecessary red tape. This needs to be taken into account when designing regulations and legislation on reporting obligations, and we assume that the administrative and legal burdens on businesses should be minimised. I would also like to refer to proposals from the majority who are being asked to explain how the simplified notification legislation can be practised in order to minimise the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. In the case of fees and criminal responses, there is no significant discussion as to whether there should be an economic response to a breach of the Competition Act. In addition, in the case of particularly serious cases of prison sentences, there are a large number of countries that, like Norway, have had this. It is with satisfaction that the Progress Party notes that the majority of the Committee will continue to focus on personal punishment for what could be called gross white-collar crimes. Initially, I focused on better legal certainty for business actors in this type of case. The majority believe that there may have been something too liberal about taking care of private homes. The new law states that there should be particular reason to assume that evidence is kept there and that a judge should make a concrete assessment of this before the Competition Authority carries out verification visits or ‘raid’. This makes the threshold for doing this type of action higher than before. As regards the seizure of documents, there has been a strange practice. This will change in the future, so that the general rule now is to obtain copies of what is being seized. This will significantly strengthen the legal position of traders. The majority of the Committee has provided clear guidance on how this can be done. Keeping the most of the documents that are not strictly necessary for the investigation will, first of all, allow companies to operate properly – as some companies prove to be innocent, and these must be taken into account – and, second, give businesses a better opportunity to defend themselves in a legal dispute. There will also be a clear opportunity to have legal review of the documents which competition authorities may wish to withhold. As regards appeal proceedings, appeals and decision-making procedures, I assume that the government parties and the Workers' Party will make their views known separately in this area. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party believe that it should be a separate appeal body for matters relating to this Act, as also proposed by the Government in St.meld. No 17 for 2002-2003 — supervisory notification. I would also like to point out that the Committee supports the EEA Competition Act unanimously and a number of editorial changes outlined on pages 46 and 47 of the opinion. With this, I will be allowed to refer to the Committee's comments in the vote and present the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e132	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e135	Firstly, the Workers' Party wishes to postpone the discussion of this bill – Ot.prp. No 6 for 2003-2004 – the proposals proposed by the Government and not dealt with by the Competition Law Committee have been further explored. This concerns in particular the proposal for a general opportunity to intervene in markets to promote competition — I refer to Section 14. In addition, the Government has deviated on several points from the wide-ranging selection setting. This makes it difficult to see the impact of some proposals. This is criticism, which includes, among other things: The NHO has been involved. Any legislative or regulatory decision and any change must initially have a clearly defined, justified need. If there is no risk of undue confusion, complexity, bureaucracy, inefficiency and, in the worst case, undermining legal certainty and respect for law and rules — in this case for business. And that's not necessary, is it? So to a few examples where there would be a desire or a need to tighten up today's law as a result of its inadequacy. It is necessary that both those to adopt and not least those to enforce this law are better informed of the need and the spirit on which the law is based. From my previous life in the Committee on Transport, I would like to mention that SAS is being postponed and has been subjected to systematic weekly enquiries from the Competition Authority. This requires large resources from the company, because of course they have to be answered seriously. The resources used do not increase the competitiveness of SAS – rather on the contrary! With regard to the various proposals, it is considered by the Workers' Party that not all areas are suitable for competition. This applies, for example: health, education and care. In these areas, social considerations will be overall competition and determined by policy choices. This policy governance must be maintained and developed, not reduced. Such a derogation would not conflict with the EEA obligations. A concrete example is the principle of tendering for service production, where there are exceptions for the health and social sectors. The Workers' Party also proposes that the current primary industry exemption linked, inter alia, to: continued cooperation between producer organisations in agriculture, forestry or fisheries. These are key elements of regional and industrial policy. District and industrial policy should not be modified as a result of this revision of the Competition Act. It will require an overall review. The starting point for amendments to the new Competition Act should include: be a harmonisation with the European Union. However, in a number of areas, the legislative proposal goes beyond EU law, and new strange solutions are also being created, such as: Section 14. With regard to the possibilities to intervene against agreements, conditions and practices that restrict competition, this has not been the subject of a consultation. Think about it! This is a general clause to intervene by the authorities when the usual prohibition provisions in the EU do not extend. This may create unpredictability as to which principles apply in Norwegian competition policy. It is necessary to specify the cases in which this can be used. The predictability and legal certainty of business appear deliberately set aside at the expense of the desire to achieve a particular result – regulation of one or more markets – where the prohibition provisions of the law do not apply. Predictability and legal certainty are essential and fundamental prerequisites for attracting capital and initial investment in Norwegian business. If you want to regulate new industries, it's a question that should have been debated in Stortinget. It may not, however, be desirable to provide for the opening up of regulation in non-regulated markets. At the risk that the provision will be perceived, in particular by foreign investors, as the institutionisation of Norway itself as an unpredictable industrial nation, the Workers' Party has said that we are opposed to this. With regard to the proposal on accountability by political authorities, the Labour Party is also opposed. The proposal may be seen as allowing competition supervision to review public regulation and decisions in the interests of competition. These are balances between different administrative considerations, which in many contexts implies a political assessment. With regard to the proposal to introduce a general notification obligation, the Workers' Party considers this to be bureaucratic for both enterprises and supervision. We propose a system of reporting obligations for larger concentrations and voluntary reporting obligations for the rest. With regard to the use of AIFMs, companies should have their own choice of who they should be. The law should also include the remuneration of the AIFM. During the examination of the supervisory notification, see: Inner. S. No 222 for 2002-2003, in the United Kingdom, it was decided that no changes should be made to the review procedure during the current review period. This implies that the applicable appeal rules continue to underpin the Ministry’s proposals for the organisation and decision-making process of the competition authorities in the new law. The working party indicates that this is in line with the setting for the supervisory message. The Labour Party will also stress the importance of the possibility of political intervention and that the Ministry will continue to deal with anchors. The Labour Party also believes that it is the Ministry that should be able to intervene in matters of principle or of major societal importance. So a little bit about investigation. The proposal for a new competition law proposes that competition supervision should also enforce EEA competition rules. This is unproblematic, but the problem arises because one set of rules applies when an investigator suspects an infringement of the Norwegian Competition Act, while completely different rules apply in the event of an alleged infringement of the EEA competition rules. One practical example: the EEA Code gives controlled enterprises the right to retain the original of a document; the investigators only take copies. Under Norwegian rules, the investigators are entitled to seize original documents and the controlled company is not entitled to a copy. This can easily go wrong and give an unnecessary level of aggression in a control situation. In the strictest sense, the existence of different procedural rules may involve a certain form of ‘forum shopping’ by the Competition Authority, in order to allow supervision to select the investigative body that minimises the transparency of the controlled undertaking and the supervision to correspond to strong rights. The business community has proposed that they be left with copies, giving legal certainty as much as in the EU and during the ESA's handling of cases, in the interests of the company's right to defend itself, help clarify the case and continue its daily operations. The Labour Party also proposes this. I would like to say that I think it is a little sad that the Council of State did not take the time to do a little more thorough work on this law. We wanted, as I said in the beginning, to send back the whole law, because it can't possibly be hasty to get this through. So it would have been possible to do more thorough preparatory work on the part of the department. The Labour Party wants to vote against the law. I would like to address the proposals No. One, two, four, five in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e175	The representative Eirin Fallet has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e178	The legislative proposal under consideration today is the result of a long and comprehensive process. It started with the government of Stoltenberg setting up the Competition Law Committee in 2000, under the direction of Professor Hans Petter Graver from the University of Oslo. The committee has issued a comprehensive opinion on the basis of which the Government's proposals are based. The aim of the Competition Act is to promote competition in order to achieve more efficient resource use. I think everyone is concerned that society's resources should be used as efficiently as possible for the benefit of consumers. However, it is clear in the position that not everyone agrees that competition is an appropriate instrument to achieve this. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's comments state that not all areas are suitable for competition and that competition cannot solve all problems, such as: environmental problems. I agree that perhaps not all areas of society are suitable for competition, even though we in the Right would like to see the production of public services more competitive. However, this law is not about what can or cannot be resolved by competition; it is about providing authorities with sufficient means to ensure that there is effective competition in those areas where it is intended that goods and services should be traded in competitive markets. Then we need legislation to prevent anti-competitive behaviour, such as cartel agreements between traders, abuse of dominant positions and monopoly of markets through corporate services. Therefore, legislation must also provide a basis for effective supervision, enforcement and penalties. Infringement of the Competition Act shall not pay off. I agree that one cannot rely solely on market and competition to solve environmental problems or to create a proper distribution of the goods in society. But it is not easy to see why this is an argument against the proposals of this Competition Act. It is at all difficult to see what is the alternative to the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. Do they believe that anti-competitive cooperation and abuse of market power are all right? Do they think it is all right that a few through such activities can enrich themselves at the expense of all of us consumers? It has been claimed that with the decision we are about to take today, Norway will have one of Europe’s most stringent competition laws. Some, e.g. NHO, has believed that a go too far in many areas, while the Business Federation has embraced the Government's proposals. They just point to the tendency that the big ones exercise power by their size. Norwegian business needs to grow at the bottom, and it should be more difficult for the big ones to break unwanted competition. Everyone therefore agrees that we need a much stricter law than the one we have today. The new, more comprehensive prohibition provisions will be much more effective both through the enforcement of the Competition Authority and through so-called private enforcement than current legislation. Infringement of the competition rules shall no longer be relied on solely by the public prosecutors but may, under the new law, be enforced administratively by the Competition Authority. This will result in faster responses and will result in far more crimes being punished than today. The new law also provides for measures against monopolies and others with market power in the form of the possibility of imposing so-called structural measures. Those who have achieved such a strong market position by virtue of good repute or competence will know that this provision allows the authorities to limit their market power if they try to abuse it. The merger rules are a new example of the very high ambitions of the Government with this law for competition policy. By initially notifying all mergers to the Competition Authority, the authorities will be far more able to capture mergers in geographically demarcated markets and in niche markets than at present. The Government has proposed that these messages be as simple as possible and as simple as possible to go through to the Competition Authority. This is important to ensure that the purpose of the reporting obligation is achieved and that it does not create unnecessary red tape. The new competition law is, as I said, a strict competition law, but on several points it strengthens the position of undertakings vis-à-vis competition authorities. By virtue of this law, we have also made visible the obligation to provide guidance to the Competition Authority under the Administrative Act by means of a separate Appendix in Section 9 of the Competition Act, without the intention of giving rules other than those laid down in the Administrative Act. Stricter competition rules will benefit both consumers and business. Enterprises are both producers and consumers, and are in both roles at the seventh and last stage served by well-functioning and fair competition. I'm addressing proposal No. 3 in the setting, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e204	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e207	We are dealing with today Ot.prp. No 6 for 2003-2004, which concerns the amendment of two laws: the law on competition between undertakings and control of concentrations and the law on the implementation and control of the competition rules of the EEA Agreement. The purpose was to see these two laws in the context. Some of the proposed legislation differs significantly or is entirely new to the proposals of the Competition Law Committee. The decision of the Competition Law Committee formed the basis for the Ministry’s hearings; thus, parts of the proposed legislation have not been adequately consulted. In order to achieve better quality assurance of the new law, SV, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre, would like to send the legislative proposals back to the Government. That is our main proposal. The power investigation has pointed out that democratisation is increasingly taking place by increasing the power of supervision and courts on behalf of political bodies responsible for the people through elections. The Government's proposal for a new competition law is well in line with this pattern by entrusting central border tasks to case-law and by giving supervision greater freedom to the ministry, especially through a broad mandate, as well as through the legal text of Section 8. Competition supervision cannot be instructed on individual decisions. This is a depoliticisation that SV opposes, and we also promote a proposal to amend the third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 8: ‘The Ministry may amend the decisions of the Competition Surveillance Authority without appeal.’;» The proposed objective paragraph, which states: ‘The aim of the law is to promote competition by contributing to the efficient use of society’, is too narrow. Competition is only one of several means of achieving an effective use of society’s resources. Long-term public ownership, commitment to research and development, innovation, learning and skills development and economies of scale are also real and, in many cases, better alternatives to competitiveness as a development force. Competition is an instrument with clear limitations, particularly in relation to distribution and the environment, but in several cases also in terms of efficiency. Competition does not guarantee fair distribution. Political control of competition regulation is therefore necessary. In the areas where competition is opened, the competition rules should be strict. Otherwise, large market players will acquire market power, which will be used to increase their own profits at the expense of smaller operators, and in particular consumers. However, there are a number of studies that show that increased competition does not make more efficient use of resources. Recent examples underline this. Norwegian ‘screen’ health services operate much more efficiently than US competition-based health services, according to WHO. The liberalisation of the pharmacies market has led to the setting-up of pharmacies in the districts, the disappearance of competences, and prices have increased by 10 p.m., it is stated in the daily newspaper on 22 December 2003. Thus, increased competition does not automatically provide better use of resources, and SV therefore promotes an amendment to § l: ‘The aim of the Act is to contribute to the efficient use of society’s resources. For the purposes of this Act, particular account shall be taken of the interests of consumers.»; § 10 Restrictive agreements between undertakings do not discriminate between public and private undertakings. As far as purchasing cooperation is concerned, the consistency of the law can be widened in a number of areas related to the joint procurement of medicines, books and equipment. Not all areas are suitable for competition. Examples include health, care, education and government. In these areas, social considerations will be overall competition and determined by policy choices. SV believes that political governance needs to be maintained and further developed, not reduced. SV promotes the following proposals: ‘Section 10 new fifth paragraph Public undertakings are exempted from this provision.» Project cooperation is explicitly excluded by the Competition Act in today's legislation. With the new proposal, this disappears. SV wishes to maintain the current system, which emphasises that cooperation on development is good, but where it appears that such projects must have a clearly defined development or news value. The Government's proposal on the general notification obligation of concentrations is important, but SV wants to extend the requirement to include buying-in. SV shows that the wording of the previous acquisition law, which the Government and the Progress Party removed in spring 2002, would have been a good and relevant tool and therefore suggests that the previous acquisition law should apply. The bid limit in today's scheme of NOK 200000 is too low. During today's business, we were able to read before Christmas how a 400,000 kroner mission led to paperwork and tender work of nearly 2 million kroner. kr. This waste of resources is no use to anyone. The SV therefore proposes that the Government consider increasing the maximum level of tenders allowed under the EEA Agreement once the new EU Directives have been finalised. The European Commission is now proposing to raise the limit for tenders and to monitor public activities such as health and social services more from normal competition rules. The competition law we adopt today will be the most stringent in Europe, and the Norwegian government now appears to be more liberal than the EU. This is strange, as the background to dealing with these two laws together was to harmonise in order to facilitate a predictable business. The applicable law provides for derogations from the prohibitions on cooperation in the marketing of agricultural, forestry and fisheries products from producers or producer organisations in agriculture, forestry and fisheries. The primary industries are characterised by many small producers and it is important to ensure that these enterprises have access to cooperation. The legislative proposal proposes exemptions by regulation, but still remains unclear on, for example, the issue. cooperative placing on the market of wood shall be permitted. Purchasing cooperation may also be hampered by the law. Cooperation is important for the implementation of Norwegian agricultural policy through the agricultural agreement. It is therefore important that this type of organisation be provided for in the Competition Act. Work is in progress on proposals for cooperative laws. Therefore, we promote proposals that exempt primary industries from Section 10. SV does not support the proposal for a new Section 14 to provide for action against agreements, conditions and acts that restrict competition. We believe that this could create unforeseeable principles that apply in Norwegian competition policy. The proposal has also not been consulted. We therefore vote against Section 14. I'm going to deal with the suggestions that we're on our own. We signal that we will subsidize the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Center Party, with the exception of the change in Section 16. We also signal that we are going to vote against the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e245	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e248	The starting point for competition policy is that competition is an appropriate instrument to ensure the efficient use of society’s resources, a competitive business and a strengthening of the position of consumers. The main challenge of competition policy is therefore to promote measures that contribute to competition, thereby contributing to efficient resource use. In the first place, it requires frameworks and legislation that can prevent anti-competitive behaviour. At the same time, there is a need for appropriate control and sanctioning mechanisms to ensure effective enforcement of competition rules. Increased competition may offer lower prices and better offers to consumers. Air traffic is a good example of this, as many people know, where competition in air in the last few years has caused a pitiful fall in air prices. The new competition law adopted today will prohibit anti-competitive cooperation and abuse of market power. This is important in order to achieve a well-functioning market. Companies and businesses that break this law can rely on severe criminal responses. New rules are also proposed to facilitate the detection and response to cartels and abuses of market power. The new law will significantly strengthen the fight against just cartels and abuse of market power. This will increase competition in Norwegian product and service markets, for the benefit of consumers. However, a number of conditions restrict competition in the different markets. This may be due to the characteristics of the market itself, the behaviour of the enterprises themselves or public regulation to serve other societal objectives. In this context, it is also important to raise public regulation to serve other societal objectives. In this context, the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has committed itself in particular to obtaining the necessary exemptions in order to ensure the implementation of adopted objectives in the field of agriculture and fisheries policy. From the agricultural and forestry industries, it was quickly pointed out that the basis for the primary industry exemption does not provide sufficient security for the continuation of the derogation for agricultural cooperation. It was correct that the legislative proposal in NOU 2003:12 had not included any specific derogation for agriculture and fisheries. It was only mentioned here that a regulation could be laid down if the intention was to continue to exempt the primary industries from the competition law. However, the government’s legislative proposals have laid down a provision imposing an obligation on the King to provide for the exceptions necessary for the implementation of the agricultural and fisheries policy. However, the proposal opens up the possibility for this authority to be delegated to the Ministry. On our side, however, we are of the opinion that this competence is so fundamental to the formulation of agriculture and fisheries policy that the exceptions should be laid down by the King of State Councils. It is therefore proposed, by the Right and Christian People's Party, to clarify in the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 3 of the bill that the power to provide for the derogations from Sections 10 and 11 necessary for the implementation of the agricultural and fisheries policy should be conferred on the King of the Council of State. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has announced that they will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of this proposal. In this context, it is also important to stress that the broad lines of agricultural and fisheries policy will be defined by the Stortinget through legislative decisions and the examination of the nutrition agreements. We are convinced that this, together with the regulations to be adopted later, will help to ensure the necessary and stable framework conditions for primary industries. We are making this clear as a premise that competition policy should not override agriculture and fisheries policy. A broad majority has also joined in a note that underlines the importance of exempting primary industries from Sections 10 and 11 of the proposal for a new law. Prohibitions on, inter alia: price cooperation and market sharing in Section 10 and market regulation measures in Section 11 make exceptions to both of these provisions necessary. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party is very pleased to have received a broad majority of comments that clearly express the need for further derogations in both the forestry and green sectors. In the field of forestry, it has also been indicated that concern is expressed that provisions can prevent the continuation of the important role of forest associations in the implementation of forest policy. A broad majority have therefore joined in the comments on the basis of which the agricultural authorities lay down the provisions necessary to ensure such continuation. We have also pointed out that the Ministry of Agriculture is working on a proposal for a new forest law, and we are asking in the position that the role of forest associations is ensured by the legislative proposal promoted by the Stortinget. For another important area, namely the green sector, there is no market regulation, and thus few regulations are linked to cooperation measures in this part of the agricultural industry. However, it has been important for us to stress the importance of continuing cooperation on price, product quality, etc. in this sector, which is necessary to achieve the agricultural policy objectives of this industry. A broad majority have argued that, in consultation with the agricultural organisations, the agricultural authorities should lay down the necessary legislation in this context. I would like to stress that, on the part of the Christian People's Party and the government parties, we have been concerned with finding proper arrangements to ensure that the necessary interoperability measures in the primary industries can be continued. At a time when, not least, Norwegian agriculture is under strong international pressure, there has been no need to harm the national framework for these industries. At the same time, it has also been important to strike the necessary balance between consumer interests. There is no reason to hide that, in the next round, what is harmful to consumers will be able to return to primary industries. In this context, we have considered in depth the possibility of agreeing to that proposal by a minority in the Committee, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, which is based on the inclusion of the primary nutrition exemption into the law itself and not into the regulation. Several alternatives were also considered in this context, without any trace of follow-up that would involve adequate solutions, even for primary industries in isolation. I'm not going to go into all of these, just briefly saying that with regard to the proposal for exemption from those lots, this has several weaknesses. These are pointed out in detail in letters from the Ministry dated 12 February 2004, which are attached at the end of the vote. This letter points to the fact that this proposal is not suitable for the purposes to be taken into account. Proposalers do not seem to have taken inwards that the new competition law is based on a different reading from the old law. The new law is based on completely different assumptions than the old one, among other things. with regard to the construction of prohibitions and intervention homes. I agree that the proposal therefore becomes too unexplained and insufficiently adapted to the system of the new law, which could have had unintended consequences both in terms of competition policy and in terms of the needs of the industries in question. We therefore believe clearly that the proposed derogation provided for in Section 3 provides better care for the exemption needs of the primary industries. The minority proposal by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Centre will not meet the intentions of the proposers that today's agricultural and fisheries policy should be fully implemented. I refer again to that letter from the department in the vote, which I believe gives a solid reason for this. The Christian People's Party will therefore be pleased to have contributed to further reinforcements in its position on points that ensure the necessary derogations for the implementation of the agricultural and fisheries policy, without at the same time having adverse competitive effects. From our point of view, we are convinced that the consideration of the primary industries in this respect will be well taken into account in relation to the new competition law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e289	Odelstinget is today invited to adopt a new competition law which is very far-reaching in relation to previous competition law provisions. It is far-reaching in two areas, both in the substantive content of the law and in relation to the powers and powers it actually gives to the Competition Authority in the future. On the part of the Central Party, we see it as a problem that several of the proposals that the Government has made to the Stortinget have neither been dealt with in the Competition Law Committee nor had an adequate consultation with the parties concerned. Therefore, our main proposal in relation to the law is that the treatment of the law is postponed until it has been sufficiently investigated in all contexts. It is clear that there is an important balance between competition and the relationship with social considerations. I don't think any of us deserve to minimize that question, or exaggerate it. But it's an important balance, and I think it's important to recognise it. In that context, perhaps the most important thing one can acknowledge is that competition is not an end in itself, but that it is a means of achieving other important objectives. For this reason, it is also important in the purpose paragraph of a law such as the Competition Act to establish that the necessary balancing and delimitation are necessary in relation to important societal considerations. It has not been taken care of by the Government, and it has therefore been proposed, inter alia. on the part of the Central Party that it must be incorporated into the objectives of the Act if the law is to operate in the best possible way in relation to the balance between pure competition, important social considerations and important policy objectives. Furthermore, the centre party is critical of the wide-ranging empowerment of the Competition Authority both through the scope of the different provisions, through structural measures and the possibility of imposing structural measures, and also through the new appeal and appeal provisions. We believe that this will give the Competition Authority a role which should really be attached to a political body. However, it is not the task of the Competition Authority to assess the wider societal or political considerations. Their task is only to assess the competitive situation. This means that when one chooses to cut off the ability of the political authorities to assess the broad societal context, and then the competitive assessments are unilaterally supervised, one also has the option of avoiding the possibility of going through important issues other than purely competitive ones. It is simply a transfer of authority from political authorities to a supervisory body, but without the supervisory body actually having any right and obligation to consider anything other than narrow competition. There has been a major discussion on the issue of exemption provisions in relation to competition rules, and there are, in particular, issues of the exemption clause in force. in relation to agriculture and fisheries policy. These exceptions are, of course, justified by the fact that we have clear policy objectives which are defined by the activities of the Grand Duchy and the Government in relation to these areas, and that achievement and policy objectives will not always be reconciled in the context of pure competition. The Central Party sees that the Christian People's Party here has tried to rectify some of the conditions proposed by the Government. It may have to be said that the Christian People's Party in some matters now seems to act more and more like a kind of lobbyist within the Government, trying to correct the adverse effects of the individual Right-State Councils have suggested – at least it seems that way. Because it's clear that the easiest thing, including in this area, would be to have a law-based exception that could have worked, and that would have given a clear understanding to all the parties involved of what to do. But I think it's important, once the damage has happened, that the Christian People's Party has done what they can to try to fix this question. And it will be a challenge for the Christian People's Party in the future to design the regulations so that they best ensure the political objectives we have set in the fields of agriculture and fisheries policy. That is why I also understand that one of these is to comply with the regulations of the King in the Council of State and not in the individual departments. It would have been risky when you look at the overall situation in some of the departments in question. There I think the Christian People's Party has done a good job. But it is a challenge in the future how those regulations will actually be designed. The central party will closely monitor how the Government chooses to continue the specific legislative designs in this area. The Parties agree to support the other proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from SV, and we also support proposal No. 11, from SV, which is distributed in the hall, if this means that the proposal is an alternative to the second paragraph of that paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e310	In my article, I want to focus on a page of the Competition Act that specifically treats me as agricultural policy responsible for the Workers' Party. In Norway, agricultural cooperation and fisheries cooperation have important tasks related to the implementation of national agricultural and fisheries policies. In order to carry out the tasks assigned to the agricultural and fisheries policy, the cooperative must have a dominant position in the market without unduly exploiting such a position. In this context, it is essential that the cooperative has the necessary exemptions from the Competition Act in order to fulfil this task. In the competition law in force, primary industries have derogations from the prohibition provisions of the law. The exemption was proposed and incorporated into the law by a majority of the Stortinget consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party. The majority of the population at the time thought this was so important that the exemption was taken directly into the law. The Government's proposal for a new competition law, which Odelstinget has to deal with today, proposes that the exemption be withdrawn from the law and moved into the regulation. At the same time, the derogations are limited to those ‘necessary to implement the agricultural and fisheries policy’, as it is called. This is a change whereby the legal basis for the cooperative organisations in the primary industries becomes significantly more unpredictable and unclear. It is also clear that the regulatory framework set out in the legislative proposal does not necessarily include the necessary exemptions for significant parts of the cooperative activities of the primary industries. The primary industries are characterised by many small producers and it is important to ensure that these enterprises have access to cooperation. The present legislative proposal takes this into account to a certain extent by proposing exemptions by regulation, but still remains unclear on, for example, the issue of drug use. cooperative-based turnover of forestry will be allowed. In other words, buying-in cooperation may be hampered by the law. For us in the Workers' Party, cooperation is very important, especially for the implementation of Norwegian agricultural policy through the agricultural agreement. The cooperation is owned and managed by the members. It is a central feature of the cooperative that there is active economic trade between the members and the cooperative. It is therefore important that competition law provides for that type of organisation. This, in our view, will create predictability and stability in the market. We therefore believe that it would have been best to continue today's derogation in the new competition law. There are a number of aspects of structure, production and products from the primary industries that require primary producers in agriculture, forestry and fisheries to cooperate in the market in order to create an acceptable market and competitive situation in relation to other stages of the value chain. It is therefore regrettable that it was not possible to obtain a majority in favour of the proposal for a derogation in the law. However, when there is no majority in favour of the proposals of the Labour Party today, we are pleased that there is a majority in favour of an exception. Similarly, it is positive that the regulations cannot be adopted or amended without, as was said, a treatment by the King of the Council of State. Because it is that when we do not achieve the best, the second best thing has to be decided. I can thus join what Marit Arnstad said – we will follow closely in how the regulations are designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e331	As stated in the proposal for a law, competition is a means; it is not an end in itself. But for a mediocre! It's an instrument that really works. Economic theory requires competition to provide lower prices and costs, better goods and services and greater choice of products. And you don't have to be an economist to see that this actually works. Any airline passenger in Norway, any mobile phone customer in Norway, any television viewer in Norway and any passenger on Norwegian express bus routes may, on their own experience, confirm that the theory actually holds. Yes, the theory holds so strongly that competition has gradually contributed to the price growth being so low that some are concerned. It testifies to a well-developed ability to worry. When competition works, it's because it makes us have to tighten up. Without competition, we don't have to do that. In the old Telewerk, there was no need to think about product development or customers in particular. You had a product, and the customers were waiting in line, safely and well, both for a long time and well. There was also no particular pressure for efficiency on SAS and Braathens when the state had split the country into two for them. Then they didn't even have time to serve a cup of coffee on the mains. And I remember personally how comfortable it was to work at Norway's School of Business before the BI also got the right to train civil economists. Competition is arduous, but it's encouraging. But because it's tiring, it's something that doesn't come of itself. If we have the choice between competing and not doing so, most people will choose the pleasant solution. It is easier to obtain good financial results by concluding an agreement with the competitor than it is by meeting the competitor in the market. That is why the temptation for price cooperation is always great. It's easier to do good by shutting potential competitors out. Therefore, bonus programmes and other loyalty schemes that bind customers are always tempting. If none of these things are possible, it's always a temptation to get rid of the competition by buying up the competitors or joining them. If we are to be sure of competition, we must therefore have legislation, supervision and a response pattern that makes it more profitable to compete than to try to avoid competition. This isn't liberalism, it's the opposite. Liberalism means that we leave everything in itself to the markets. An active competition policy involves using laws, supervision and reaction patterns to ensure that there is effective competition in the markets. That is what is the essence of the new competition law. Of course, it shouldn't punish companies that do well. We want competition. Then we also have to be open that someone in the competition is better than others, and that even somebody might win. It's not a problem. It's great if a company does it so well that by virtue of quality and low prices it actually celebrates the competitors of the track. We don't want to punish it. But we want to prevent anyone who might win, even if it happens this way, then tempted to exploit market power. Therefore, we introduce the possibility of structural intervention as a rice behind the mirror. At the same time, we want to prevent crime by making it clearly unprofitable to break the law. Therefore, the system of high civil-law fines is introduced. And we want to prevent the monopolistic position from quietly being established by buying and merging. Therefore, the general obligation to notify concentrations is imposed. The fact that competition offers lower prices and better and more products means that competition policy is a good consumer policy. That was why the Government did not explicitly include consumer concerns in its proposal for a new law in the purpose paragraph. It's really so obvious that it should be superfluous. When the number of committees still wants to have it with, it's just as natural that the government has nothing against it. The purpose of the law will be to contribute through competition to the efficient use of society's resources, but then with the addition that the application of the law should pay particular attention to the interests of consumers. In most cases, this supplement will hardly have any particular practical consequences, simply because consideration for the efficient use of resources and consumer considerations will be consistent. However, sometimes — mergers can be one example — restrictions on competition will lead to the loss of consumers while the companies involved serve. In such situations, the addendum to the provision of purpose must be understood as affecting the exercise of discretion by law, in order to give greater weight to the loss of consumers than to the gain on the part of undertakings. Competition policy is not only good consumer policy, it is also good business policy. This is particularly true in Norway, where we have a competitive business that is stuck between high costs at home and hard competition. There are many reasons why the level of costs in Norway is high. One of the reasons is that we have a high salary level, and we want to keep it. But another important reason is that we have high prices of goods and services on which competitive enterprises depend – subcontracting, transport and communication services, construction and construction, etc. Such goods and services must be cheaper if we are to maintain a competitive business in Norway. Competition in domestic markets is a prerequisite for bringing down prices for that type of goods and services. Some have asked why we should need a stricter competition law in Norway than is the case in most other European countries. The answer is very simple: we need a strict competition law because we are a small, piggy country on the outskirts of Europe. That makes us have many and small domestic markets. It also means that the possibility of external competition is smaller in us than in those countries on the continent that are small and close to each other. In Belgium, competition can be obtained from the Netherlands even in small local markets. We do not have the opportunity to have similar competition from outside. And it's in these small local and niche markets that consumers and businesses have to buy most of what you need from goods and services. We have to remember that it's not on the phone and bank charges and air travel that people spend most of their money, it's on all of the goods and services they buy locally. In life, most people spend more on plumbers and carpenters than they spend on bank fees. They use more in the furniture store than they do on the phone, and they use more in car workshops than on air travel. It is important that we now have a stricter competition law with the possibility of a stronger focus on small and niche markets. It's important for business and people most around the country. At the same time, however, the new law must not make it more difficult and heavier to feed in Norway, on the contrary. We have to impose reporting obligations on concentrations, but it is clear that it has to be done in a simple and unbureaucratic and preferably electronic manner. At the same time, in line with the idea set out in the State Supervisory Communication, we place great emphasis on the need for the Competition Surveillance Authority to be solution-oriented and guidance-oriented. It's not a competition policy we want. There is legislation, supervision and a response pattern that, on the one hand, makes businesses look good at competition and, on the other hand, allows businesses to stay within the law without difficulty. For these reasons, I also find it unproblematic that the majority would like to include the Competition Authority's obligation to provide guidance in the law. It is true that this obligation is governed by the Administrative Act and that the proposal of the majority does not confer rights on enterprises in addition to what they would have, but it has a value in itself for those who are required to read the law, and not least as a clarification of supervision, that the obligation to provide guidance is also provided by the Competition Act itself. A law isn't enough. It's just as important how it follows up. Therefore, during the year, the government will promote its own major communication on competition policy, which will explain the follow-up and how to ensure that the law and supervision are used to ensure greater competition, not least in the small and niche markets, which are important for Norwegian consumers and Norwegian companies. In this way, we will soon be able to show how the law that is now likely and fortunately adopted will delight Norwegian consumers and Norwegian businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e364	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e367	I record the involvement of the Council of State when the word ‘competition’ is mentioned. That he's glowing, I guess to stretch it a little bit, but that's at least a lot of enthusiasm, I understand. I wish that the same Council of State could glow as much and be equally committed to the requirement of quality. So to my question. The Competition Law Committee has not dealt with Section 14, which is about intervening in the market to promote competition. The Council of State does not see the need for this paragraph to be more thoroughly dealt with, and why is it necessary to keep it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e374	Here it has to apply a misunderstanding. In fact, the Government’s proposal for Section 14 of the Competition Act, on promotion of competition, was promoted by a minority in the Competition Law Committee and has thus been at normal consultation. Several Hearing Officers have given a positive opinion on the proposal. I have e.g. the wish to mention that the Landsorganisation in Norway, the Consumer Council and the Competition Authority themselves consider that such a regulatory home is needed in order to have the opportunity to take action in a market with a lack of competition. On this basis, I do not fully understand the concern of the representative Fallet about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e381	It is not always that I have had positive things to say about the Council of State, but on this very day I could imagine thanking the Council of State for a good cooperation and many good, clarifying and quick answers that we have received during the handling of this very complicated matter. As it appears from both the comments and the introduction to the matter, the Committee is concerned that we do not want an unnecessary bureaucracy as a result of these rules. We want legislation and regulations to be designed to minimise administrative and legal burdens on businesses. In particular, the Committee has been involved by the small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that he has understood and will follow this up in concrete terms, and that he will also address this issue in particular in connection with the announcement of the paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e390	Let me first get back the compliments. Now there is a fairly broad consensus in fundamental terms on competition issues, between the government parties and the Progress Party. It has been very happy to note that there has also been a cooperation that has worked very well at the practical, concrete level. I think it has been a great pleasure for the members of the government parties in the committee and for the department to cooperate with the case rapporteur on this matter, although we can therefore disagree on other matters. With regard to the specific questions, the answer is valid for all. We will follow up on the request to come back with regard to the regulation. We will try to add up the electronic processing of the notification form as soon as possible. We don't want to create bureaucracy. But at the same time, I would like to make it clear that we cannot shield small and medium-sized enterprises from the requirement that they are also exposed to competition in the markets. That's some of what's in the whole law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e397	Competition is not a goal in itself, says the Council of State. But the whole purpose paragraph is probably about it. The government is now implementing Europe’s strictest competition law, in the light of the theory that strong competition provides better use of resources. In St. prp. No 51 for 2002-2003, Innovative and innovative business instruments, the Government writes that economic development requires innovation and that innovation requires interaction – according to the Government, interaction is a mixture of competition and cooperation. Is Norman in agreement with the rest of the Government that cooperation for innovation and economic development can be important? If the answer is yes, why does he refuse to open up project cooperation with a clear character of innovation and development, as proposed by SV during the discussion of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e406	Only in order to establish it once and for all – and once again: the Competition Act states that competition is an instrument, not an objective. The aim of the Act is to contribute through competition to the efficient use of society’s resources. And getting an effective use of society's resources is a goal. Competition is an instrument. At the same time, it is clear that, although one has a business life in which individual companies compete, this does not preclude extensive networking and other forms of interaction between enterprises in the same business life. But believing that this is a contradiction to competition means that you don't know how interaction and competition actually work. I would essentially just recommend the SV and the representative May Hansen to read in more detail, for example. the literature on economic cluster formations, such as: Professor Torgeir Reve has described it, which describes just how to interact through competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e414	According to economic theory, most things have to work, including competition, but it is not always economic theory that tolerates the meeting with reality. I am not sure whether we would have had either a proper offshore industry, the production of underwater installations in Kongsberg or a large hydroelectric operator in the Nordic region if we had thought as narrowly as economic theory as some would like to do. My question is really about the further progress of the legislation. It is said quite clearly from representatives of the government parties that the only difference with respect to the exemptions applicable to the primary industries is that they are no longer to be legalised but are to be repatriated. The question is quite simply: when one is going to do that prescription home, will the Council of State ensure that it is followed in the way that the representatives of the Christian People's Party in particular have wanted today, and that there will be exemptions that are materially in line with the derogation that has been granted today, just that it will be regulated and not regulated?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e421	Let me just make it clear first: I think the representative Arnstad and I can only briefly see that the view of competition is probably different between the Central Party and the government parties. And it goes for people to be factually disagreeable without becoming unfamiliar for that reason. But we have much more faith in competition than the Center Party has, and we think we have good evidence for that. So to the specific question. I can certainly say yes. What is stated in the proposal, as stated in the comments of the Committee, is that it is not intended that the Competition Act should be used for the conversion of Norwegian agricultural policy. Therefore, the Act provides that what is necessary for the implementation of Norwegian agricultural policy and Norwegian fisheries policy is to be exempted from the Competition Act. It is not necessary to make this a somewhat more difficult matter than that. What is necessary in order to implement agricultural policy at all times shall be exempted from the Competition Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e428	First, just a comment on the answer to the representative May Hansen. I don't think it belongs in the big room that a government council asks a staging representative to get involved in the theory of the position she has. I think the Council of State can spare itself the lessons until he comes back – hopefully as soon as possible – to the School of Commerce. So to that with competition. Victor Norman talks like he's invented competition. I believe that most people here in the Chamber are in fact the supporters of competition in the market, and that once you decide that a market should work, you are in favour of the best possible competition. Without prejudice to the Council of State, competition does not take account of a number of other considerations. The question of fair distribution is not solved by competition. The question of equal opportunities for all, e.g. to education and to good health is not eliminated by competition. The issue of districts is not addressed by competition. Some cultural policy objectives are not achieved through competition. This does not affect the Council of State at all in its intervention, and thus it also becomes quite politically uninteresting. My question is: why does the Council of State not go further into the problematic aspects of competition and all the questions they do not solve, but perhaps even contradict?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e435	We are aware that representatives from the Workers' Party want members of the Government to return to other places, so it does not have to be mentioned here by the representative Giske. With regard to the questions he's travelling, it's going to be too far to answer all of these things in 45 seconds. But that's not what the Competition Act is about. It deals with the rules of the game to be applied in markets where there is to be competition. There I note that no matter what the representative Giske says, the Labour Party is also opposed to a strengthening of the Competition Act in areas where the Labour Party, like the Government and most others, believes that there should be competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e442	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e447	I take the floor to comment on an article by the representative Marit Arnstad of the Central Party. She had a visit to the Christian People's Party in this post. It was nice also to hear that she praised the efforts of the Christian People's Party, although it might also have been a little bismach that was not quite so pleasant. When the representative Marit Arnstad says that the Christian People's Party is trying to correct the damage and act as a ‘ kind of lobbyist’ in relation to the Government and government parties in this matter, I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party, Right and Left are united on everything that has been written in. I could give my full support to the statement made by the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli, and I do not see that there has been any disagreement between us regarding the handling of this matter. So a comment on the only proposal we have made to change the law: in connection with Section 3, we therefore need the support of the Progress Party to adopt this. So it's an improvement in the law that Marit Arnstad was happy that we had done, but that she has to vote against herself. I think it must be a cross of thought for the Center Party, that they must vote against something they are happy for coming – and this is coming. First, the law selection that made this had a much weaker paragraph. So the Government strengthened Section 3 and said that the King should draw up regulations, and then we have decorated it a little, and said that the King of the Council of State should do so. We've kind of been moving all the time towards strengthening the primary activity exemption, which we thought was important. That's all we've changed. Otherwise, we have put in a lot of good comments like the Center Party, fortunately, and the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have joined in, comments by a broad majority, to reinforce the very consideration of the primary industries. So to this with the lobbyist again: I assume that Marit Arnstad remembers back to the time she sat in the Bondevik I-government. It happened, as far as I remember, that the Central Party also took hers both in the Government and in the Storting in relation to its own government. I assume that the term ‘lobbyist’ is something the representative Marit Arnstad is very well acquainted with from that time, and that that was what the Center Party was about when you took a different position than others did. I repeat that in this case the government parties have been united. I am also pleased that we have been supported by our efforts to strengthen the relationships with the primary industries. There, I guess, I think the Christian People's Party and the Center Party can – fortunately – get to fight on the same track half in the time that's coming. I hope at least that's how it gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e458	In reply from the Council of State to the representative of Marit Arnstad, he says that it will not be the competition law that regulates Norwegian agriculture and fisheries policy. And that's true, what Ola T. Loan says, it can be reassuring. But then to something that I might wish the Council of State had a point of view: TINE Namsos has been closed. Synnove Find ASA is not required by the Competition Authority, but it is that if Synnove Find and TINE do not agree on the price, the department will determine the price, if that is correct what I have heard. Then my question becomes: are there other areas, e.g. in the public sector, where competition may arise in a manner similar to that of the dispute over milk and human milk between TINE Namsos and Synnovene Finden?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e465	There are several speakers from both the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre's parties who have repeatedly argued that the requirement for an investigation concerning this law has not been met, and that in some way it has been a main argument for sending the law back. However, I would like to make it clear that the investigation requirement has been met by the processes that have been carried out in connection with the legislative work prior to the presentation in Stortinget, and that this has also been fully explained in a letter from the Ministry of Labour and Administration to the Committee of 13 December 2003, which is an annex to the vote. All parts of the bill, including where the Government has opted for solutions that differ from the law committee, have been included, either in NOU 2003:12, New Competition Act, in the form of majority or minority views, or in the letter of consultation. In this context, it must be emphasised that the Government, of course, regardless of who the government is, does not have any obligation to follow up proposals from a public expert committee in the preparation of its legislative proposals for the Stortinget. With regard to the Government's proposal for Section 14, which the representative had fallen into, on the promotion of competition, this was also proposed by a minority in the Competition Law Committee, as was also the case with the Council of State. Several Hearing Officers have given a positive opinion on the proposal. The Norwegian Land Organisation, the Consumer Council and the Competition Authority consider that such a regulatory remedy is needed in order to enable action to be taken in a competitively deficient market. In this context, it must also be emphasised that Section 14 only allows for the provision of regulations, which implies the ordinary consultation of the parties concerned before any action against anti-competitive behaviour may be appropriate in individual cases. I would also like to stress that both the majority and the minority in the vote are actually promoting proposals that have not been sufficiently discussed in the work of the Competition Law Committee or in the letter of consultation. This applies, for example: the proposal of the majority on a new second paragraph of Section 1 on the purpose of the Act, but not least the proposal of the member of the Committee from the SV on changes to the notification obligation rules, Section 18. It is amazing that they themselves propose something that has not been investigated, and use it again, as a main argument for sending the law back.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e474	First, an answer to Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli's representative. This has, of course, been under investigation – this with the acquisition law has worked well in Norway for many years. It was the Progress Party and the Right that no longer wanted the kind of reporting obligation that is in that law. It is strange that you now choose a rematch and reintroduce the reporting obligation. We believe that this law was a good tool and takes care of a lot of what has been mentioned here today. As for the State Council Victor Norman said that I haven't read what I was going to, and not read all the economic theories, it might be true that a midwife hasn't done it. But it is also the case that he did not answer the question I asked. Why don't you give an opening for project cooperation? Why do you not exempt it when the Government in another message has said that it is absolutely necessary to do so? There's a lot of theories about competition, old theories, all the way back to the 1700s. Victor Norman has his theories. Others may have slightly different approaches to competition as their goal. The theory often says that the less professional movement, the better, and the more private providers, the better. We have seen after the war that the Nordic countries, with their welfare models and strong trade union traditions, have had faster economic developments than countries with a lower share of the public sector in the economy and with weaker trade unions, for example. The United States and England. It's completely the reverse of what these theories say. In the 1990s, for example, Norway has a faster economic growth than the United States. Norway currently has world top productivity without the most stringent competition law in the world, which the Council of State now chooses to introduce in Norway. How, then, does the Council explain that concrete experience shows that, in many cases, more competition also makes less use of resources? This proposal has not been included at all. It is possible that perhaps the Council of State has not read all the theories either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e483	Let me first make it clear that I think May Hansen has read more economic theory than I have read scientific literature in her area. The purpose of my answer earlier was not, as the representative Giske seemed to think, to be condescending and say that this should have been read before she asked questions here. On the contrary, it was a question of how to reconcile competition and interaction, where I recommended reading if you were interested in the theme. With regard to the specific question, which I was injured not to answer, the answer to that is very clear. There are exceptions in the R & D cooperation law. This means that the law explicitly allows companies that otherwise compete to cooperate in research and development, and that is precisely because the law wants to open up the interaction between companies that have to exist in competition and in other contexts to cooperate. It's important just to get innovation. If my response to a reply earlier was misunderstood until there was something discouraging in what I wanted to say, it is completely wrong – on the contrary. For examples that competition may be unfortunate, there are probably many of them. But most of the examples we have go in the opposite direction. With regard to May Hansen's views on the importance of competition on the labour supply side, I fully share them, and that is why the law makes explicit exceptions to the Competition Act for employee organisations. I fully share the view of May Hansen that one of the major competitive advantages Norway has had is that we have had a strong and good and responsible trade movement. I hope very strongly that we will continue to have it. The fact that we have a strong trade movement does not prevent us from having good competition in plumbing markets, grocery markets and in all other markets where people buy goods and services. Then there was the question of the specific matter between TINE and Synnove Finden and the role of the Competition Authority there. There I must unfortunately have to say that I cannot comment on it. It is a matter for consideration by the Competition Authority, and it may come to the Council of State as an appeal. That is why I cannot comment on the matter. As regards the general question, I would like to say that the type of case will be within the scope of the Competition Authority's work to the extent that agricultural policy and the laws and regulations resulting from agricultural policy open up special areas of competition. That's what's happened in this case. It is not the competition law that initially applied there. It is the fact that agricultural policy has been designed to open up to a degree of competition also in the retail marketing of milk.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e496	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 328]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e512	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Labour Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e521	: Today, Odelstinget will decide on a proposal for a change to the Work Environment Act. It is about repealing current Section 55 A and replacing it with an own chapter on equal treatment in employment, which will also comply with Council Directive 2000/78/EC on the prohibition of discrimination in the labour market. A number of members of the Committee believe that it is particularly positive that there are now clear rules in the environmental legislation which ensure that each worker is better protected from discrimination. It is high time that there was a ban on discrimination and discrimination on grounds of sex, religion, outlook on life, sexual orientation, disability and age, in order to identify some areas. Furthermore, it is important to clarify that this prohibition should apply not only to additions but also to employment and the cessation of employment. I am pleased that Norway in the early stages of the process signalled the willingness to implement this Directive voluntarily, although I know that there is a debate in the EU/EEA area if the Directive is EEA-relevant. The Committee has had a hearing on the subject where the social partners were involved. Furthermore, there was a broad representative selection of different stakeholder organisations. The Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, is in agreement on most points, but in some areas the Committee is divided into a majority and a minority. I will come back to this. The Progress Party is consistent with the main content of the legislative proposal, but will nevertheless support some changes in a subsidiary way. I expect that the Progress Party will do its own thing. The majority point to the fact that the legislative proposal is designed to take advantage of the ‘discrimination’ approach and not the ‘discrimination’ approach. The government has reason to believe that discrimination is a more useful practice in Norwegian lawmaking, and that the Labour Law Selection in its setting uses these concepts for each other. It is simply not clear what kind of action is most commonly used to describe unfair social conditions. During the hearings, organisations representing the disabled were able to provide for shades in these two areas. The majority believe that the notion of ‘discrimination’ would be the best word to use in the final legal text. Therefore, the majority in this round will change the use of red tape in the headlines and ask the Government to reconsider this in connection with the work associated with the Employment Law Selection. Employers’ organisations are sceptical about the subjective experience of being harassed by employers’ compensation. The majority in the committee believe that it is not possible to set objective standards for what violates the individual's dignity. That's why we think this assessment must be up to the courts to do. However, another set of practices will consider changes if such a practice develops negatively. The majority would point out that it is desirable that conflicts based on discrimination in the labour market be resolved as quickly as possible. The situation may be that employers can be made responsible for other employees’ actions. It makes sense to make employers aware of this in order to be able to intervene and stop unwanted behaviour. For this reason, the majority would like to introduce a negotiable obligation between employees and employers, as one today has under Section 61 of the Employment Environment Act. This Directive prohibits discrimination on grounds of religion or outlook on life, disability, age or sexual orientation within the defined area. One of these defined areas is membership and participation in a worker organisation. In our opinion, the legislative proposal goes further and prohibits discrimination on other grounds, namely political views and membership of employee organisations. By including membership of employee organisations which prohibit grounds for discrimination, this would, in the view of the majority, lead to a direct right to demand the same pay conditions as organised workers, even if we know that this was not the Government's intention in the legislative proposal. Another plural suggests that the Government's proposal for a derogation in Section 54 D No. 2 is contrary to tariff law and therefore proposes to allow discrimination in pay and working conditions under the same paragraph. An area in which the Committee has also shared shall be subject to exemptions from the prohibition of discrimination when added to religious organisations. In § 54 D no. 5 it is suggested by the plural – Right, Christian People’s Party, the Progress Party and the Centre – that discrimination can be practised because of the homofiled form of life by adding settings to religious trust societies where specific requirements are set out in the announcement of the post according to the nature or purpose of the employer’s activity. This opens up to further tightening and discrimination, as the Labour Party interprets it, and we do not accept it. The Labour Party and SV are some of the reasons why exceptions are passed on in new law when the objective is legitimate and the requirement is in a reasonable relationship with it. The Labour Party and SV nevertheless believe that it would be too far to keep all the positions related to religious truce communities outside of the prohibition of discrimination, as the plurality of our opinion is in favour. What must be decisive, in our opinion, is that the position is so special that it would be legitimate to make such demands. We believe that this cannot be the case for all settings related to religious faith societies. I would also like to point out that the EU's framework directive only mentions religion or belief as a basis for discrimination, not sexual orientation. On this background I mean the Workers' Party and SV that § 54 D nr. 5 must be deleted because he is in breach of the directive. The last thing I'm going to mention is the review of ‘long-term reduced working capacity’ in Section 54 F. The majority of the committee believes that it would be unfortunate if ‘disabled’, which is the circumvention that is being used in today’s Section 55 A of the Working Environment Act, would be replaced by ‘long-term reduced working capacity’. Such a change in the number of people who are covered by the legal text would be a quite clear narrowing of the number of people who are covered by the legal text – this is because a disability has to do with the individual as well as the environment. On the other hand, the concept of ‘long-term reduced working capacity’ relates only to the individual’s ability to participate in work. To name a example, one that becomes a hearing impaired would be to look at as a person with a permanent reduced working capacity if the position is a telephone operator. On the other hand, the same person will not have a reduced working capacity of any kind in a position where good hearing is not necessary. However, the person will be in the category of disabled persons and, as a matter of course, will be in the category of person who is to be five. I would like to refer to the excellent article that the Council of State had in Today's Business on 27 September last, entitled "Would Roosevelt have got a job?" There the Council of State points out that he himself has a visual problem associated with colors, i.e. that he is color-blind. Therefore, I will quote parts of the Council of State's articles in the Business of Today: ‘Blinde is a bad fit as taxi drivers and film sensors – just like people with my shoulder width are bad fit as drafters at nightclubs – but we don’t have to use ourselves for such things. There are enough jobs and jobs that enable us to take advantage of our respective talents." As far as I can understand, this would, in my opinion, imply that the Council of State is sufficiently far along the way in agreement with the majority of the committee to change the scope of Section 54 F to «disabled». Finally, I would like to make the proposal to which the Labour Party is a part of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e571	The representative Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e574	Once again, the Stortinget will implement an EU directive in our national legislation. I can't say in parentheses that this case is enough of an example that we're very EU loyal, actually we're the best in the class. We are without membership, yet we are like a 70 pst. member, but without rights. It's a cross of thought for me. But back to the point: it is very positive that EU legislation on the prohibition of discrimination in employment is implemented in Norwegian legislation. The government has therefore presented a legislative proposal to ensure equal treatment in the workplace. The right takes away from discrimination in the labour market. It is obvious that vulnerable groups should be integrated into Norwegian working life and have satisfactory working conditions. At the same time, it is equally obvious that consideration for the employer is also adequately taken into account. We believe that this balance has been maintained in the proposal for new legislation. Equal treatment in the labour market is essentially about freedom for individuals, freedom to participate in the labour market in the same way as others without being discriminated against. As you know, the freedom of the individual is inexorably important to the Right, and that of course also applies in the workplace. Equal treatment in the workplace is about giving individual opportunities — the opportunity to participate in the labour market, an opportunity that is unmistakably good both for individuals and for society. Unfortunately, not everyone in our society has been given the opportunity to participate fully in the world of work. For example, the labour market threshold is: higher for immigrants, and there should not be much imagination to point to attitudes and prejudices as cause factors. All experience suggests that labour relations are a key to better integration into Norwegian society. In line with this, the provisions on discrimination in the labour market should help to achieve the objective of a more inclusive working life and facilitate job creation for vulnerable groups. For a long time, both the authorities and the social partners have focused strongly on the agreement on a more inclusive working life. It is worth stressing the positive work done in integrating disabled persons and the increased participation of older workers. However, the targets are long overdue. I want to highlight age, because age is not among the grounds for discrimination which have been covered by the Work Environment Act's prohibition on discrimination in the event of employment in Section 55(A). It is worth noting that in this area, too, the EU has gone ahead of Norway. Even the most sought-after no-person must admit that this is where the EU contributes to making Norway a better society. So far, our age has in many cases become a problem, and the view of older workers has given many a painful end to working life. It is good that we now agree that there are good reasons for introducing a general ban on discrimination on grounds of age. The prohibition of discrimination covers many groups. It has sex, religion, life views, skin color, national or ethnic origins, political views, membership of an employee’s organisation, sexual orientation, disability, and includes – as mentioned above – age. Thereafter, the prohibition of discrimination shall apply not only in the case of employment but also during work and in the event of termination of employment. This is new and means that Norwegian law in this area is now fully aligned with EU rules. There has been a certain discussion about the introduction of a possible new body for the enforcement of the Discrimination Act. In this respect, I would just like to point out that this is to be decided by the Stortinget in connection with the treatment of new laws on ethnic discrimination. There have been many discussions during the examination of the case as to whether to use the term ‘discrimination’ or ‘discrimination’. Practice has varied here, and the concepts have sometimes been used around each other. The organisations representing the disabled came during the consultation with clear messages that ‘discrimination’ is a more comprehensive concept for the purpose of the law. We give them right there. I refer to the suggestions in the vote to which the right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e597	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e600	The Progress Party is opposed to this bill, but the party's opposition to the proposal for amendments to the Working Environment Act is not at all justified by the fact that we do not support the very intention of the bill to prevent discrimination in the workplace, but that we believe that the changes in the law, as proposed by the Government, work against its purpose in practice, while at the same time we believe that the law is a far too strong an intervention in the employer's governing law. I would like to point out that the Progress Party is taking a great deal of distance from discrimination and discrimination based on race, sex, religion or ethnic origin. Of course, as a natural consequence of this fundamental view, we also take a great deal of distance from discrimination and discrimination in employment. However, prevention and protection against discrimination in the labour market must be seen primarily as an attitude-creating issue in society and which is less suitable for comprehensive regulation. In the Progress Party, we see the danger that, in particular, some smaller employers may be more deterred from publishing job vacancies, because they feel that this law deprives them of the right of governance to employ what they think is the most appropriate. For an employer, it may be quick to conflict with the legal provisions in this area, especially if the employer places emphasis on the qualifications of a jobseeker other than those which can be documented, because the law also provides for a very restrictive interpretation of the exemption in order not to undermine the prohibition of discrimination. The fear of conflict with the law can thus create a more reserved willingness and practice of some smaller employers regarding the publication of job vacancies. The result may be that a greater proportion of recruitment and employment takes place more in the hidden, without an open call. This can create a labour market that becomes less accessible, and then perhaps less accessible to those groups that are intended to be protected by law. What, then, have we actually achieved with such legislation? In particular, on this basis, the Progress Party is very sceptical about the legislative proposal. The party that progresses is also in substance strongly opposed to the imposition on the employer of provisions concerning both disclosure obligations, the burden of proof and liability relating to the social conditions to which the law refers. The elements of sanctions laid down in the law require an employer to prove for himself his innocence, so-called the reverse burden of proof, if accusations of discrimination are made against an employer. Conversely, the burden of proof violates the basic principle of the legal system that the person who claims that someone has done something wrong has the burden of proof. Conversely, the burden of proof actually leads to increased burdens on the employer and a weakening of the legal certainty of the employer when the bill provides that an employer may be accused and convicted in the light of a person’s subjective perception of discrimination. The Party also disagrees with the law on access to positive treatment. In reality, the law states that ethnic Northmen can in some cases be discriminated against in the context of working life and placed behind the protected groups mentioned by the law. This is a little dangerous way to go, which gives ground to racism and conflicts in society, and which is why there is good reason to strongly warn against. It is with respect to report unsustainably that some minority groups can benefit from the benefit of group or race in the context of working life, as permitted by law. In addition, positive treatment is stigmatizing and harmful to those treated separately because it gives the impression that these are weak groups which are not attractive in the labour market. This is probably a weakness of the law, which helps to underpin the view of the Progress Party that the law will work against its purpose rather than benefit the matter itself. Although the Progress Party is opposed to the legislative proposal as such, we will nevertheless vote in favour of some elements of the law. We will vote in favour of Section 54 F on disability and proposal No. 2 from the government parties Right and Christian People's Party to § 54 D nr. 2nd@item: inlistbox We also support the exemptions mentioned in Section 54 D No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e617	In November 2000, Dagbladet was able to tell about a teacher in Moss who was sitting in a wheelchair and was carried around from room to room at school. It's still like that, and it can't continue to be like that. It must be that the disabled person is given his or her job arrangements. He/she will not be permanently unemployed. It is one of the reasons why the Committee has insisted that the concept of ‘long-term reduced working capacity’ should not be used, but that it is the concept of ‘disabled’ that is important. Discrimination is taking place in the labour market. We can look at who's free. Immigrants, disabled people and people with disabilities are much more vulnerable than others. Some of them concern discrimination, and the issue of inadequate organisation is also discrimination. And I'm glad that the majority and the Storting now affirm that we can't accept it anymore. We have to have a society that is organized for everyone. I am pleased that the Stortinge has agreed to evaluate the new provisions relating to subjectivity in relation to the concept of harassment. We fully agree with both the Government and the majority that this is the right principle to put on, because harassment is necessarily a subjective perception. In the lawmakers of this law, there is also much about proportionality and provocation, which will be part of the interpretation of the law in a possible legal case. But it's clear that this is new, and we want a review of this in two years, and we're happy about it. In the media today it has been falsely reported that SV and the Workers' Party support the Government's view of discrimination against homofiles. The majority, consisting of the Government, the Advance Party and the Center Party, today adopt legal provisions that give greater openness to religious religious communities to discriminate against homosexuals than the law of the day. SV therefore votes against § 54 D nr. 4, which gives the employer the right to ask jobseekers for views on political, religious or cultural issues, on information on membership in an employee organisation, sexual orientation or form of life. Together with the Labour Party, we promote an alternative legal text in which the principle has been reversed. The government's proposal, which allows this, will make the opening for the employer to discriminate more than today, and we are against that. In addition, SV also votes against § 54 D nr. 5, which explicitly confers on religious communities the right to discriminate because of the homophilic form of life. So what the Government, the Progress Party and the Center Party are in favour of, gives both political legitimacy and a separate law home to give faith societies that have such a negative view of humanity and such a negative view of homophilis, an extra opportunity to do this. SV strongly disagrees. We distance ourselves from this human vision, especially when it means that if you're gay, it's not just wrong, but you shouldn't even be allowed to be with the one you're happy with. It's a heartless human vision. The narrow, general exemption provided for in Paragraph 54 D(1) 1 gives the employer, where discrimination has a factual purpose, no disproportionate interference and is necessary for the performance of the job or profession, an opportunity to avoid the prohibition. This means, for example: that a political party may have factual grounds for requesting a person who shares the basic political views of employment in political positions. It will also give the narrow opening we have come to that it must be too religious religious communities to ask questions of faith regarding religious and spiritual leaders. This right is enshrined in the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights. Today, for example, it provides a basis. for the Catholic Church to practise a professional ban on a married theologian to perform in the Catholic Church. I believe that this is an inhuman requirement, but the UN Convention provides an opening for this. Our interpretation is that this must be a very narrow provision, which concerns only the positions of spiritual leadership in religious communities, i.e. not. teaching positions in secondary schools related to religious communities. Unfortunately, the rights of homosexuals are not protected by international conventions or enshrined in human rights in the same way as freedom of belief is. Work is now in progress to achieve this, and SV is the only party that supports Norway supporting this proposal. I would urge the other parties to express their views on this in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e634	We're not going to discriminate. Norway should be a tolerant society. But history from both past and past shows that this is often far from reality. There are a number of examples of people who are not within the A4 format being overlooked in the workplace. It applies to disabled people and immigrants. Even if they have impressive qualifications, they work hard to get into the labour market. Often these groups are also the first to be squandered out of a tight labour market. We don't want it that way. The Christian People's Party therefore fully supports the changes in Ot.prp. No 104, where the Government proposes clearer rules in the Work Environment Act, rules ensuring better protection against discrimination and discrimination in employment. The ban on discrimination is about equal treatment and freedom for individuals to participate on equal terms and on equal terms with all others without being discriminated against. New legislation prohibits discrimination on grounds of age — that is good. Being out-of-date as a 50-year-old is resource depletion of dimensions. This can be difficult only with the intentions of the agreement on an inclusive working life, nor with the proposal of the Pension Commission on a longer working life. We believe that the legal changes will be brought to the attention of employers who do not see the value of long-term work experience and wide-ranging competence. Disabled people's organisations were in the hearing concerned with the use of law enforcement. We thought it would make sense to listen to those who wear the shoe. When they made us aware that ‘workers with permanent disabilities’ should be changed to ‘workers with disabilities’ in connection with the employer’s obligation to organise work, yes, it was a good proposal, which we took note of. Similarly, we have met the proposal to sideline the ‘discrimination’ approach with ‘discrimination’. Although these coverts are legal synonyms, we agree that most people see nuance differences that should be reflected in the law. Political freedom, freedom of organisation and, not least, freedom of faith are fundamental values of a living democracy. But one cannot demand another's speaking seat to promote his point of view. That is precisely why the Christian People's Party is very concerned that the exemption rules of Section 55 A of the Working Environment Act are being passed on. It is therefore important for employers to be able to demand political, religious or cultural views if ‘such information is justified by the nature of the position or if it is part of the purpose of the activity of the employer concerned to promote specific political, religious or cultural views’, as it is called in the legal text. It would be completely absurd if the life-vision organisations themselves could not decide who they want to appoint, and what criterion should apply to what position. It's not discrimination, but it's a protection for the right to have a hold that's not consistent with the plurality. It's when you're unbalanced that tolerance is valuable. It still surprises me that both the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party argue to remove or narrow down the exceptions to the law, but there are societies that have tried with control and regulation far into organisational life, trust societies and family life. Then one loses all good principle. Then a freedom loses, and freedom is actually the basis of one of the most precious things we have, namely democracy and popular rule. Therefore, we will maintain the exemptions that Section 55 A has, and which are now passed on in 54 D, without change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e651	First of all, let me say that I think it is very positive that one in this legislative work has created a broad majority in the Committee relating to the vast majority of the amendments proposed. I think that is good, both in relation to the political environment and also in relation to the further legislative work on equal opportunities in employment. The centre party believes it is positive that age has been included as one of the reasons for non-discrimination, and that it is so clearly clarified in the new legislative work as it appears. We also think it is positive that sea-going traders have now been included as part of what is on the basis of discrimination in relation to the work environment law, seafaring operators strictly do not fall under the other rules of the Labour Environment Act. The centre party looks at the legal work we are dealing with today, primarily as a legal clean-up work, and we have to say that some of these, majority and minority, in the committee seem to be a bit stormy in a glass of water. If you look at the question of how to continue § 55 A of the old legal work in the new sections 54 B and 54 D, I have to say that I have difficulty seeing what is the great disagreement between the government fraction and the Workers' Party and SV in practice regarding the practice of the legislation that one will adopt. I think that today we are facing a desire to make it a greater political conflict than it actually is, when it comes to the more legal practice. The opinion of the central party is that we want to continue the content contained in Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act today, and we believe that this can be done through the rules proposed by the Government. But if there is any doubt that that rule will be interpreted in exactly the same way as Paragraph 55(A), then a person can easily solve it by making a reference between Paragraphs 54(B) and 54(D). I have to say that I find it difficult to understand some of the comments that have been made today, among other things. on the SV side, that there should be some major political contradictions between the parties. With this, I will record the proposal of the Centre Party, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e670	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e673	I am proud that the Government has proposed an extension of the Work Environment Act's ban on discrimination in the workplace. Let me also say that I see the arguments for using the word ‘discrimination’ and not ‘discrimination’, and I am very pleased that it is likely that the proposal will be adopted essentially. We want employers to have a great deal of freedom to hire whomever they want and considerable freedom to define for themselves the criteria for promotion and division of duties between their employees, but we do not want this freedom to be used for discrimination or other discrimination on grounds of group membership. The right to be treated as an individual is such a fundamental value that it should, must and must take precedence. The ban on discrimination is extended by our proposal in two important directions. One is through the new prohibition of age-based discrimination. The second is that the prohibition of discrimination will now also apply to both employment, work and the cessation of employment. Both changes are important. The prohibition of age discrimination is important both in principle and in practice. In principle, it is important as a counterweight to the youth fixation that is applied in parts of the world of work. It is good that advertising agencies and financial brokerage communities want to appear young and expansive – I have nothing against it – but if they follow this up through a practice that builds up under a myth that you can only be creative and innovative if you are under 35, then you build up under something that is harmful to the whole of the world of work. At the practical level, the ban is an important protection and an important aid to all middle-aged and older jobseekers who today feel age discrimination on the body. Not least as responsible for Aetat, who daily encounters age discrimination in his work for older jobseekers, I am pleased that the protection of discrimination is now being extended. That the prohibition of discrimination will also apply after employment is an equally important extension. Getting a job really does not help much if you are discriminated against because of group membership after you have got it. Fortunately, in Norway, we now have a strong tradition of non-discrimination in Norwegian workplaces, and I hope that this tradition will become even stronger as we become more diverse in working life. I believe that the law in this respect can be an important guide to goods measures, but even more important is that it can be an important attitude towards the future of working life. So a little thing. With regard to the debate on old § 55 A and the continuation of it in the new law, I just want to clarify, for the sake of order, that the Government's intention is that there should be no change in the material content of the proposal for a new law. It is important that freedom of belief and organisation are respected, and the Government's attitude is that it should have the exact same framework as that of today's paragraph. The Committee proposes an amendment to the Government's proposal for Section 54 E on the organisation of disabled workers – and I appreciate the good quote of the representative Upbeøen Hansen, whether I can say so – where the Committee wishes to replace the concept of workers with «permanently reduced working capacity» with workers with «disabled». I clearly agree with the Committee that ‘long-term reduced working capacity’ can be misleading. Disabled persons who need an organised job may have full working capacity. I therefore have no objection to this proposal. But I want to make it clear that the purpose of the Government and the Committee is the same: the employer must have an obligation to facilitate the work so that people with disabilities can do the job. Finally, this law does not ensure inclusion in working life for all, but it is an important measure in the overall work on inclusion. The groups that in practice encounter discrimination in the workplace do so partly because of discrimination, but in many cases they do so simply because of lack of organisation or lack of follow-up both from the public sector, from their own organisations and from the enterprises themselves. This law is important in that it ensures against formal discrimination. At the same time, it is important as a signal that people have the right to be treated as individuals in all aspects of working life, and as such it may also contribute to better follow-up from both countries, organisations and businesses. But that follow-up must also come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e695	As well as all the country's internatial spheres that are driven by religious faith societies, there are corresponding guidelines, such as the Mission Union, which allow different people to refuse to work as secretaries, janitors or cooks – to name a few occupations. At the same time, adding which is considered to be different risks being cancelled. Professor Jakhelln asserts to the Post of Evening that ‘promotion of such claims is illegal’ against workers in these communities and that it is contrary to Norwegian law, Section 55 A. The question is whether such requirements can be addressed to all types of settings in relation to the promised debate today. Today's practice is disunity between the Labour Party. We think one has to distinguish between the preaching and the learning options, and other options. What do the Councils of State think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e704	As I said in my post, it is important that employers are free to choose the most decent people for their jobs, as long as it does not involve discrimination on the basis of group membership. That's what's in the law, and the law has specified very specific reasons that you're not allowed to focus on. When that's what we're proposing, that's what I'm in favour of. With regard to the issues of the exemption provisions and their scope, I did not perceive Professor Jakhelln as categorical as the representative Uppebøen Hansen said. Here, there's a legal grey area where the boundary goes exactly. I want to say, as the Prime Minister has also said, that that grey zone is natural to clarify through the legal system. That's what we have courts to do. The intention of the government and the Storting is very clear from the law. Exactly where the limit goes in each case is a matter that has to be decided by the judicial system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e713	The Council of State said in its statement that the Government wants the employer to have a right of governance. It would be difficult for an employer only to place the purely documented qualifications as the main employment criteria. According to the Council of State, what weight can an employer actually attach to his assessments of personal suitability and of other characteristics and qualifications which an employee has in addition to the purely documentable, without risking conflict with this law? What is an employer’s ability to consider other things, such as personal fitness? What is his right to rule in this area in relation to not conflicting with the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e720	I think I have answered the question already. The employer must have the right to find out for himself which people are suitable for jobs, and personal suitability may be a criterion to be taken into account. But it is not allowed under this law to focus on group membership in relation to the groups listed in the law. Now this is such a serious matter that you shouldn't joke about this, but as far as I understand the law, it means that I could not hire an arendalite because I don't like people from Arendal – which I do, just not to be misunderstood – but I wouldn't be allowed to focus on the group membership mentioned. In general, the employer is very free to employ the person(s) who are considered suitable, but one is not allowed to focus on age, religious views, political views or the other things explicitly mentioned in the law. And that's something you can't get around just by showing personal fitness.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e729	When it comes to the issue of teaching positions and cook and watchman positions at secondary school – which is now revealed – and how the employer who places himself on the private affairs of his employees, I do not think the Council of State is the least clear, even if he says that the intention is clear. He won't say clearly what he means. Whoever's going to make the law must be able to say what's the intention of it. On the SV side, it is quite clear that the law should not open up to any positions other than those directly linked to the spiritual leadership positions of organisations. It is very difficult to understand how to interpret a normal teaching position in a secondary school. It is also quite unreasonable that those who prepare laws and adopt them do not say anything about how the law should be interpreted. That's why I challenge the Council again: Is it true that the Union is allowed to do this, or is it not right?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e736	You don't get good laws by making laws based on single examples. You get good laws by applying principles, and then you have to evaluate the individual examples on the basis of these principles. The law is crystal clear in terms of principles. Then there is a difficult balance: what are the positions within or outside the exceptions specified in the law? It has to be decided by the judiciary at the end of the seventh. But let me add – as my opinion – that I will not believe that some employers, such as private companies, public employers or organisations in Norway, will see fit to try to make the limits of the exceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e743	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is over. However, the President proposes that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e746	There is no specific exception for discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation in the Directive. In the Directive, the term ‘sexual orientation’ covers both heterofil and homofil. There are, therefore, special strict requirements for accepting different treatments, when only one can allow this under specific constraints. There are equally strict requirements for exceptional possibilities that are confined to religion or to the outlook on life. The requirement is that it must be legitimate and reasonable in the light of the ethics of the organisations. The majority of the committee believes that the exemption from the prohibition against discrimination on grounds of homofilament should apply to all positions in religious faith societies, while the Labour Party believes that this cannot be the case for all settings. Does the Council acknowledge that the proposal in § 54 D No. 5 is clearly contrary to the EU directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e756	The answer, of course, is no. It follows from the Directive, Article 4(4). The first subparagraph provides for the right to maintain national rules or practices which allow for unequal treatment because of a person's religion or outlook on life, for positions relating to churches or other organisations based on their ethics on religion or outlook on life. The second subparagraph of that provision also provides for the maintenance of rules and practices allowing the same establishments to require workers or jobseekers to have a fair attitude to and be loyal to the organisation’s ethics. In addition, point 24 of this paper shows respect for the status of churches and religious organisations in the national legislation of the Member States. Following an interpretation of the Directive, the Labour Law Committee concluded that the Directive does not prevent the maintenance of the existing right to discriminate against jobseekers with homosexual forms of life in positions related to religious faith. Since the Government's proposal is a continuation of exactly the same principles and with the same content of opinion as Paragraph 55(A) of today, we clearly believe that this does not conflict with the Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e763	I think the Council of State is a bit of an emergency with regard to the question from Karin Andersen. We're here, both government and noblest things, as legislators. When a court is in doubt, it goes to the pre-workers, who are both odelstingsproposition, committee positioning and debate in Odelstinget, possibly in Lagtinget. As legislator, I think you should answer the question clearly from Karin Andersen: Will the practice of the Mission Union in relation to its boarding schools, which is mentioned in the evening post today, be within the framework of the exemptions envisaged by the legislator, or is it outside the framework? For the Progress Party, I can reply with confirmation that we think it is within the framework of the exceptions, and we fully support what Hallaråker says today in the evening post. The working party and SV provide a different vision. Then it will be important for the court's practice of the law to know where the Right Party and the Christian People's Party stand in the matter, so that one can get a clarification from the legislator about what is the intention of the legislator. So I want to repeat the question: does the Council agree with the Progress Party that the practice of the Mission Union in relation to its boarding schools, as described, is within the current legislation and the law that is now being passed, or does he agree with the Workers' Party and the SV that it will be outside? Is the policy now left to the courts, rather than we being in charge of politics and leaving legal decisions to the courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e772	I wish it were so simple that it could be said whether concrete individual positions in specific organisations were clearly falling within or outside an exception provision. My assessment is that, in such cases, it is necessary to address the specific context – look at the specific job, look at the specific tasks involved in each job – before deciding whether this falls within or outside the law. That is precisely why we in Norway have a system in which the Stortinget adopts laws, if necessary regulations are adopted in addition, but where the border country of the laws and regulations can and should be tried before the courts. That is why I am not prepared to say whether a concrete teaching position or a concrete position in a boarding school falls within or outside the law. It depends entirely on the content and tasks of this position and the context in which the position is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e779	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e784	I noticed that the Council of State said that the Government's intention was that the material content of Paragraph 55(A) should be unchanged from current practice. From our point of view, we clearly perceive that it is not, because an explicit code of religious faith is introduced to discriminate against homosexual forms of life. It is mentioned by name, and therefore introduces a kind of hierarchy of discrimination. In principle, it is not allowed to discriminate in this respect, but we see that someone is allowed to discriminate a little bit more than others. We believe that, in principle, it would be right to have a completely general prohibition clause, and that the individual who feels that they have to go across it must document it no matter what position it is. It's actually a pretty big difference, and I'm a little worried if the majority doesn't see it. So they give a legal legitimacy to a type of discrimination that at least SV – and I also believe the Workers' Party – deeply disagrees with. So to the specific matter that has been discussed now, and that goes on these positions that are linked to different religious and religious communities. It is important to clarify the principles on which the majority and the Government base their views. Do you want the law to be very strict, as the SV and the Workers' Party want it to be a very narrow opening for the positions of spiritual leaders, or do you want an interpretation that is known and that allows others to be included in it? That's, as Professor Jakhelln says in the paper today, a little undecided. These provisions may have to be re-examined. And if it can't be made clear from the government's and the majority's side that they have a very strict view of this, and that is how their provision is to be interpreted, I'd like to notify on behalf of SV that we will come back to this as soon as possible, because we can't live with a situation in which the employees of high school or ordinary children's home workers should be able to risk losing their jobs if they are so unfortunate that they should get into a situation where they need a divorce. I'm very surprised that a party like the Right can stand behind such a interpretation of law. I may not be so surprised that a party that has «Christian» in its name has such a vision, but I am very surprised at the Right. I am also very surprised at the Senterpartiet if they support such a interpretation of the law, and do not see that this needs clarification in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e795	First, a small trifle: the representative, Hagen, was injured to confuse two organisations: the Mission Union and the Mission Union. This may be the result of the recent debate on a slightly different issue related to the guidelines of the Union of Missions, but there are, after all, two different organisations with a rather different ideological profile. The conceptual distinction between ‘discrimination’ and ‘discrimination’, I have to say that I have problems to deal with. I have some doubts as to whether it actually contributes to clarifying the inclusion of ‘discrimination’ in the back of the coin to ‘discrimination’. As far as I understand, the two things mean the same thing, just with the difference that one is Latin, and the other is Norwegian. However, it may be true that in a general sense, a kind of use of the word ‘discrimination’ has developed which means only discrimination in negative terms and not in a positive sense. The only difference, in case, between the two words must be that ‘discrimination’ can be used both ways, whereas ‘discrimination’ is usually used only one way. But there is also a small philosophical problem – with respect to reporting – because people often protest so-called positive discrimination, because it implicitly leads to negative discrimination against others. So you're equidistant. And then finally, those two words mean the same thing. So a little comment on what really made me ask for the floor, namely Karin Andersen's main post, where she said that the proposal involves greater access to discrimination than today, and therefore the Workers' Party and the SV vote against. Then there must be something that is not correct, as far as I know, the Workers' Party and SV have always been against the legal status of today. So that can't be the reason. As far as I can read, there is no legal change here. There is a technical regulatory change, no substantive change. Then Karin Andersen drove quite strongly to the human vision, as she called it, and, as far as I understood, she took a strong distance from both the human vision behind this bill and the human vision of the Universal Human Rights Declaration of the United Nations. Then she has undertaken a pretty strong project, because if she is to force the Roman Catholic Church to lift the guild – I assume it was a mistake that she did not take the ban on female priests too – she will have to force most of the world's religions to change her practice quite fundamentally. So you can only wish happiness!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e808	We're going to the end of a pretty interesting debate. I would just like to remind you that what the Labour Party and SV propose is a continuation of §55A of today, which is also in line with – as I understand it – what the Labour Law Committee has proposed, and in our opinion it also follows up its EU Framework Directive. Now it's so that this case has a doctor here on the house for about four months. It should have been a good opportunity to make recordings, and the committee has also had a wide audience. Now it turns out that there will be organisations on the track after the setting has been released, and just before Odelstinget will debate the matter. I find it a little regrettable that the organizations have not contacted the Committee and its members before, through the hearing process we had, and not least to me, who have our spokespersons for the proceedings. But I take note of that. In many ways, I feel that the debate that is also taking place in the media is a little pointless, and that this attack on the Workers' Party and SV is also a little meaningless. It's actually so that it's Right, it's the Christian People's Party, it's the Progress Party, and it's the Center Party that is more discriminating, in that it's going to apply to all positions in the threat community. This is about the question of gay rights and about tolerance and respect for the gays. The representative, Karin Andersen, mentions the proposal that is now being made in the United Nations, which will link gay people's rights to human rights. I can signal that the Labour Party also wants Norway to support this proposal in accordance with what SV requires. It is also true that the exemption rules apply when there is a real reason to have a general rule of exception, without one thus having to take the form of a group. Then, of course, we have to weigh that point of view up to the consideration of freedom of trust. Part of this case is about additions to student settings in trust societies and not about membership in trust societies, as some media confuse it. We believe that we must have strict requirements for threat societies if discrimination is to be legitimate. These developments are to be followed closely, and we will review the question later, in connection with the treatment of the Labour Law Selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e821	I want to insist that I think the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are now a bit abdicated from politics. The Labour Party and SV have no problems being clear, the Progress Party has no problems being clear. I think we as legislators should take our responsibility seriously and give the clear signals to the judiciary, the courts that they deserve. This is a matter of principle, and it's primarily politics and less pure jus. I'm sorry I didn't use the whole name instead when I talked about the Mission Federation. It was not the Norwegian Union of Missions I talked about, but the Association of Interior, where the Secretary-General, Karl J. Hallaråker, according to the evening post today, emphasises that all employees in the schools – i.e. the boarding schools, where the students live, where they meet the janitor late in the evening, early in the morning, they are in the kitchen and they meet the cooks – are supervisors. It's a very small community. That's what this is about. According to the Evening Post, he says: ‘That is why we will have the opportunity to make demands on employees that are consistent with the teachings of the Bible. We don't always ask employees about divorce, but we want the right to do it. I expect that the Storting will not intervene in this fundamental right of freedom of belief.» We share his views – not when it comes to assessing whether employees are divorced or not divorced, because it would not suit us, but we respect and will be so tolerant of religious communities that the Indremissions Association at its boarding schools, if it is also known to all those who take up employment, that these are conditions, should be able to continue their practices. I see that the Prime Minister leaves this very important political issue to the courts. It is also done by the Council of State, and it is done by the representative of Inge Wohnning. I think it's not surprising. I think we should take the political debates here and be as clear as possible. This isn't hard to understand. It's not like it's kind of as simple as one said you could just take it from a few examples. We all know what this is all about. Karin Andersen asked if you want a ‘small opening’ for the exceptions or a ‘wide’ opening for the exceptions. The Progress Party wants a wide opening of the exemptions. We want the religious communities to have a significant right to follow what they have done. We may disagree that it is not – let's say – reasonable, but it is something peculiar to religious institutions in the same way as to the political parties. Everyone acknowledges that in the Advance Party we should not be forced to hire an RV, just as SV should not be forced to hire one belonging to the Advance Party. As employers, we should have the right to govern. I think it is sad that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party cannot clarify their position on this issue, but therefore abdicates on their important role in principle. Politicians should be concerned with fundamental principles. We're counsellors to the courts. That's one of our functions. I think it's sad that you're abusing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e842	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e845	I need to clarify that the wording of the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV is a continuation of today's law and practice. That's not what the government and the majority are in favour of. SV has not proposed removing the part of our commitments relating to the UN Convention on Political and Civil Rights. We haven't taken the aim of doing that, but I'm allowed to express a view of the attitudes that I perceive are the basis for not hiring homosexuals, or when you think people are going to stay married anyway. The fact that an employer has something to do with it is a human vision that I distance myself from and deeply disagree with. Then I need the Council of State to clarify the new provisions on harassment and retaliation in relation to this. Would it not be to be seen as a reprisal if an employee who lives in an unhappy marriage and is employed at one of these schools, would have to be divorced and could thus get a threat from his employer that if you divorce, you will lose your job. I will consider that there is some kind of retaliation that this law now puts an end to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e854	First, the happy part of this debate. It is that both the Workers' Party and the SV also recognize that the Freedom of Trust should have some pre-emptive rights. They also recognise that in some settings, the freedom of trust and trust communities will have the right to ask for life's views, and they will be able to pursue their goals. That's a good part. So it's not a matter of whether the Christian People's Party or the Right abdicate. But it's clear that one here can't set up a list of the options that this applies to. For the Christian People's Party, which was one of the proponents of §55A, it was one thing that was basically important: it was that the organizations had to have a broad mandate to define what kind of settings were important to the goal the organisation had. Then a lot of settings may be relevant, and it must be up to the organisation to define. So what's the problem? How often have there been conflicts over the time this law has existed? There are very few times that it has happened. In general, this law has worked according to purpose. She has given the organizations freedom and has tried a few times in court. We do not therefore share the view of the representative Karin Andersen that here one could begin pure harassment of the addendum. Practice throughout the years that have been with § 55 A has shown that the paragraph has worked according to the objective. The Christian People's Party will still fight for organisations to have the freedom to define which options are consistent with their goal. Of course, it would be a lot of times that a person can ask questions about it. Then there's not a pulpit in the Storting that can decide it, nor a councillor, it's actually just the judiciary. But the premise I've made clear what was in 55 A, and what is there now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e866	I asked for the word to tell me very pleased with the post to Jon Lilletun. Then he kept talking, and then it became a little less contentment. But there were a few things he said, which I think were very significant, and which I am pleased with. He said that it is up to the organisations to define which positions they consider to be important for the purpose and basis of the business. He also said that the organisations must have the freedom to define which positions this is, but then he also came to court a little later. I had hoped that Jon Lilletun could have been ready for these religious organizations that teach, and that run it as boarding school. I can see the grey zone over to normal schools and to normal businesses. But in boarding schools, where you're 24 hours a day, all of those who work there will of course be part of what you meet as a student. When boarding schools are based on a religious belief – and often a very clear religious belief, where the Bible or possibly another religious book is the basis for everything going on – it would be quite natural to respect, in the spirit of tolerance and respect for freedom of belief, that there is complete governing right for the organizations, and that a court should not be able to impose such an activity as a boarding school to have an employee who will meet the students who have a completely different religion, a completely different basic attitude. For example, if you were to do something about it, you'd have to do something about it. at the boarding schools of the Association of Interior could have highly fundamentalist Islamic employees as cooks, as cleaners, as watchmasters? I think it would have done a lot with the environment, and so at least I would like to close that door again and say that here freedom of faith and respect for the right of governance go before the fact that in normal working life you have to have some rules against discrimination. Of course, it also goes the other way, to maybe other types of boarding schools with a completely different religion. I want the same tolerance to them. I wish Jon Lilletun could be as crystal clear in this area as I am.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e875	The President has been informed that due to a planned open hearing, we have to cancel the meeting and reset it at noon. 18 if more than one person asks for the word. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 341]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e885	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e892	In the course of the debate, eleven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Eirin Fallet on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 3, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, by Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 5, by Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 6, by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 7, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 8-11, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The representative of May Hansen will adjust proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e919	In the course of the debate, the Central Party wanted us to amend this proposal to read as follows: ‘Article 8, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:‘The Ministry may amend the decisions of the Competition Surveillance Authority without appeal’. – Let's do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e931	The President will first vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 6 [[Competition Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e946	As proposal No 1 is now rejected, it will vote against the Committee's position. The President will first refer to the proposals. 8 and 9, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider raising the tender threshold to the maximum permitted by the EEA Agreement.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a case for a reassessment of the new national rules, including the threshold for procurement, once the new EU Public Acquisitions Directive has been adopted.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e1525	The President will propose that there be a vote first on the minority proposals, and where it is natural, the vote will be replaced by a vote, and finally the other paragraphs will be voted on in the vote. There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on competition between undertakings and control of concentrations, the following provisions shall be added: [[Competition Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e1719	It is then voted on the corrected proposal, No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 8 is replaced by the following: ‘The Ministry may amend the decisions of the Competition Surveillance Authority without appeal.’;» The Central Party has announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e1738	As an alternative, between the Committee's setting up Section 12, first paragraph, and proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on competition between undertakings and control of concentrations, the following provision shall be added: [[Competition Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e1757	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party – all paragraphs. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on competition between undertakings and control of concentrations, the following provisions shall be added: [[Competition Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e1807	Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up Section 21 and proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on competition between undertakings and control of concentrations, the following provision shall be added: [[Competition Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e1828	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on Section 1, the fifth paragraph of Article 16, the fourth paragraph of Article 18, the fourth paragraph of Article 24 and the fifth paragraph of Article 25 and proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on competition between undertakings and control of concentrations, the following provisions shall be added: [[Competition Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e1871	The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 3 of the Committee shall be replaced by the following: 3, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on competition between undertakings and control of concentrations, the following provision shall be added: [[Competition Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e1892	As an alternative, between the Committee's suspension of §§ 9e, the first paragraph, new (f), the third paragraph, the third paragraph, the fourth paragraph of 10 and the sixth paragraph of 25 and proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on competition between undertakings and control of concentrations, the following provision shall be added: [[Competition Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e1938	The paragraphs in the committee's configuration that some fractions have announced that they wish to oppose are being voted on. The Socialist Left Party has announced that they wish to go against the first sentence of § 8 of the second paragraph of the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e1952	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they wish to oppose the second paragraph of Section 9 of the Clause and Section 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2098	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President has understood that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2112	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2272	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2282	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2292	Case C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2299	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sigvald Uppebøen Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2358	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2371	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 54 B, paragraph the last sentence is replaced by the following: Derogations from this prohibition are set out in § 54 D.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2417	The party of progress has announced that they are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2454	In the case of § 54 D No. 2, an alternative proposal, No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 54 D, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2nd@item: inlistbox Discrimination on the grounds of membership of an employee organisation is allowed in so far as the pay and working conditions of collective bargaining agreements are concerned.» The Progress Party has announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2475	So we're going to add up to the points. Four and five. This is where the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party have announced that they are in favour. The progress party will support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2489	The other paragraphs of Section 54 D are addressed to voting. The Progress Party has notified that it supports this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2502	The President will then vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 54 E is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2534	The progress party wants to go against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2581	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2601	The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are behind the setting. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian Party and the Left will therefore oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2646	The progress party wants to go against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2672	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian Party and the Left will therefore oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2684	The President will then vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «§ 54 K – § 54 M becomes § 54 J – § 54 L.» This proposal is only a paragraph adjustment in line with the decisions now taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2722	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President has understood that the Advance Party wants to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-26-lower.ana.ud2540e2736	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
