ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e28	The National Audit Office has examined in a very comprehensive way the effectiveness of Norwegian assistance to one of our main cooperation countries, Mozambique. Different measures, totaling 75 pst. of the total bilateral assistance in 2000 and 80 pst. of assistance in 2001, is part of the National Audit Office’s investigations. When we know that this aid amounts to approx. 300 million. kr per. years, we see how extensive this study is. The National Audit Office has examined the results obtained and whether these results are proportionate to the results envisaged. Particular attention was paid to the target of poverty reduction, as well as to the risk assessment carried out by the Norwegian authorities, and this may be particularly related to those areas which include direct support into the national budget. The national audit found both shortcomings and weaknesses in achieving the objectives, in risk assessments and also in relation to poverty orientation, which significantly govern Norwegian thinking in this work. Norway is a significant contributor to poverty reduction in the world. If we look at our participation in relation to the population in Norway, we are among the very largest. There is almost unanimous political support behind this work and this participation. There is also widespread support among the population in terms of our aid policy and the way aid is provided. The question asked when it comes to spending billions of dollars on improving living conditions and reducing poverty in the poor part of the world is not whether we can afford this. It's not a question that the Norwegian people are asking. The question they ask is, among other things:When this money reaches the people they're supposed to reach? They ask questions about assistance to improve life in these countries, whether it provides a future for children and young people in these countries, whether it provides better health, whether it provides better education, etc. That's the questions asked. Now the Committee sees that helping the poor parts of the world to get out of poverty is a huge and very complicated work, a work on how many factors and components are involved. It is a work where the results are not easy to register after a short period of time. We also need to learn to see the difference between emergency aid — short-term action aimed at an emergency — and the long-term and systematic improvement in a country. Let me quote a unanimous committee, which says: ‘To combat poverty, it is essential to ensure the basis for a good distribution policy, for investment in infrastructure, in health and education and for the sound management of natural resources. Only by providing a basis for stable growth and development will poverty problems be able to find a lasting solution.’ That's what the committee says. This also means that we are facing extensive and difficult work, and a work in which we cannot simply read the results out quickly. We recognise this complexity and the scale and long-term nature of aid work, but at the same time we must point to the need of the Stortinget to assess whether the assumptions underlying the allocations of the Storinge are met. And this is very important. When the Storting grants billions of dollars, it must somehow be such that the Storing for its part can systematically see whether we are through this money in fact when the goals we set for such allocations. It is therefore very important that the Government provide a solid basis for this by defining criteria and by the way reporting is done. We have understood, not least through St.meld. No 35 for 2003–04, which is now here in the house, that the Government will give this work a very high priority. We can record that, in response to the Riksrevision, the Ministry sees the possibility of improvement in terms of clarifying objectives, clarifying the challenges and the risks involved in the investments being made. I believe that the Committee was particularly pleased that, in the context of the new guidelines for budgetary support, the Ministry would strengthen the risk assessments. I think that's very important for the Storting. The National Audit Office has pointed to areas of our aid work that need to be strengthened, and the Storting will – I assume – expect this to be followed up by the Government at all points. And we see that this investigation carried out by the National Audit Office has been very important. It will also contribute to a broader understanding of this work. I understand that the Government for its part takes these experiences and the findings that the Riksaudition has made, very serious, and St.meld. No 35, which now lies, as I said, for treatment here in the house, indicates that it will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e60	What's good about this case is that it's the first time the Riksrevision deals with the effect of assistance. One has previously dealt with how the channelling system and the administrative system are administered, but precisely that one measures the effect of the assistance, is the first time one does here. This report is a serious reading. It is quite clear that there are poor assessments of whether you have achieved the goals you set. Where one has studied the achievement of the goal, it is unfortunately little. I'm not going to spend so much time talking about snow falling last year, but rather looking forward, because we can learn from the errors that are done. It may, as the Committee states, assess the impact of aid to Mozambique in the first budgetary procedure, whether it is submitted by the Government. I take it as a self-order that the Order is going to do. Of course, if we look at what kind of possibilities we have to control from the Storting, we have the annual reviews of the aid agreements that one has actually seen as the goal to implement. It's a possibility. We don't use that much debate in that context. Then we have the budget. We also get a message of poverty, as the case-speaker mentions. Every eight-ten years, there's a big message coming out where we can take a holistic assessment. What we may be missing, and what the Council of State has been up to in the past, is an annual development policy outlay. That would be especially important to get. Then we could have a closer follow-up of these matters. Perhaps we had at all that the Riksrevision had to go into such matters, precisely because we ourselves had better control of the individual country, and not least because came closer up to it and got a more politicized management of development policy. The Swedes went straight out and said to Mozambique: we're going to have millions of dollars back. They cannot show that the money given via Sida – the Swedish Development Directorate – has actually gone to education. Then we're going to have the money again. We should not ignore the fact that we from Norway in the future must also make stricter demands. If you don't achieve what you want, they should actually pay the money back. Of course, when it comes to opinion in Norway, there is a great deal of support for assistance, on which the case-speaker placed considerable emphasis. It's important that the money goes where they're going. If we look at the Millennium Goals in an even greater perspective, the rich countries are going to cancel debts, and we are going to increase the aid. We might want to double the assistance from Norway. At least we have to know that the money goes to the right place. Many of the tasks developing countries have are corruption control, etc. If we in the rich countries are sluggish about where the money is sent, how can we expect poor countries to be able to verify the use of money? Here we can simply influence by doing a good job at home, affecting regimes that may not be able to house in the best possible way. We've had two cases in the last few years, one in Zambia and one in Nicaragua. Both of them have had blatant convictions, actually blatant judgments of former state leaders who have spent money that should have gone to the poor. But one of them has been given a rightful verdict. It seems that poor countries are beginning to become aware of it, becoming able to take this into account. Then it also becomes important that we follow up from our side. So a few words about budget support. There'll be more and more of it. I'm not going to take the historical background, but just briefly say that when budget support is given, it's at least harder to follow up than if a given direct project support, because when it's a project, an actual one can drag out and measure if it's there, if it's there, etc. But if a budget support is to be given, there will be greater demands for a defence administration regime in place before a budget support is provided. In my opinion, one has not been thorough enough when it comes to thinking that there must also be a relationship. One has had the habit of running project support, switching on budget support, and thus perhaps letting things sail their own sea more than necessary. If we are to learn something from this, and if this is to become a matter beyond a simple matter in Mozambique, we must systematically work to ensure that Norwegian assistance has the effect that he is supposed to have, so that we in Norway not only have the administrative on the dry, but that a test it in a good and thorough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e83	I note that there is broad agreement on development cooperation between Norway and Mozambique. As in all aid work, it is important to be able to produce the results of the efforts made by the case-speaker. This report makes it clear that there is, in fact, room for improvement in this work as well. There is a particular need to specify the objectives, the challenges, and the risks involved. This management report will be an important input to the Ministry when it comes to improving routines and working methods. The contents of St. Meld. No 35 on the common fight against poverty goes into the middle of the problematic issues referred to by the Riksrevision in this report. The focus is on quality assurance and performance improvement. In the current year's budget, work was started to systematically produce objectives and results in the development process. Attention has now been paid to the visibility of the objectives pursued by Norway vis-à-vis the main cooperation countries and other co-operation countries. Work on revising the so-called Aid Manual as an important tool in working with state until state cooperation has started. As a result of the audit report, the Embassy in Mozambique has developed a concrete follow-up plan. In this it is that the embassy will strengthen the dialogue with the recipients for the purpose of reporting results. As a conclusion to this, we can see that the administrative audit is proving to be useful in the quest for an increasingly targeted and effective aid policy. The report of poverty reduction in Mozambique as a result of the work of the national government, together with the aid work, shows that it is also beneficial for countries such as Norway to have an active country for rural cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e94	Administrative audit is, in fact, something new in the Norwegian administration, including in this area. Such a situation was before, it was examined whether a project had been implemented as planned. If you saw that it was done according to plan, you were basically satisfied with it. They didn't ask, "Did they get better?" Is the effect good? These are actually also questions that we are more asking ourselves in the Norwegian administration: is the effect and the results as we set ourselves as objectives? Did we succeed, or did we not succeed so well? This means that we are in a way involved in a pilot project: how can we carry out a review of what we are doing, which ensures that we are looking for power and results – what is called impact in English? It means that we're in on new ground, and that we all have to refine and improve our routines and the way we work. It also applies in the field of development and in relation to Mozambique. I have just returned from a visit to Mozambique this weekend. In my meetings with President Chissano and Minister of State and Finance Diego, several of these questions that we are discussing here today were on the agenda – not least to test results. The new tool has now been designed in Mozambique to do just that, called the Performance Assessment Framework. Common indicators have been developed. With this, one has to evaluate the effect of what we're doing. Then you've done a statistical household survey with basic statistics, which means you can measure: Have the poor got better? It is a parallel tool that accompanies budget support and, in the context of it, also follows strengthened financial management. In order to take the first point first, as the representative Jacobsen had in mind: here it is not a question of budget support implying that things are allowed to sail their own seas. No, in fact, we're going to test year by year how the funds are managed. But this is a new tool, which we use together with several countries. We're in on new ground, and we have to keep working to keep improving it. But there's no doubt that there's a lot going on here in a short time. The other thing, which I would also like to stress, that the representative Jacobsen was involved in, is that Norway has often demanded money back. We're clear on this. If it is not proper reporting, it is the money back. We're uncompromising on it. So the last one. Of course, in relation to statements that can ensure the investigation of the Storting, I am very interested in it as a government council. It is up to the Stortingen to make such annual presentations. Today, only the Foreign Minister has that opportunity. That is why I would ask the representative, Mr Jacobsen, if he wants to do so, to deal with this with the Presidency of the Storting and not with the Council of State, which is more than willing to do so, even at short notice. Then to the setting and to the matter. I note that there is a broad consensus on Norway's development cooperation with Mozambique, and on the importance of what we have been discussing: targeted efforts and visible results. I would like to say immediately that the Government will follow up the signals that the Storting gives in its attitude. Although, as our answer shows, there are some objections to the approach taken by the National Audit Office and the studies and conclusions presented, not least in relation to poverty orientation, there is no doubt that there is room for improvement in clarifying objectives, challenges and risks, and not least in relation to reporting procedures. These include risk assessments and new guidelines for budgetary support, with which the rapporteur was involved. We have taken the Riksaudition report seriously, which has led to changes, first in quality assurance and reporting in development cooperation in general, second in the work on measures in Mozambique in particular. As the rapporteur was in the Chamber, it is also reflected in St.meld. No 35, Joint battle against poverty, as the government presented in ours. There is a stronger performance focus and a stronger emphasis on quality assurance and the way we intend to implement it. We have started, in the 2004 budget proposal, with a more systematic presentation and a visualisation of national targets and results that Norway and other donors contribute to in the main cooperation countries. There we want to contribute to the Storting getting a better basis for assessing the impact of what we're doing. As part of improving the learning of aid management, all aid-responsible embassies have been asked not only now, but several months ago, to follow up the conclusions and recommendations of the National Audit Office’s survey in relation to their own portfolio and activities. The National Audit Office's report and what we can learn from it have also been followed up by meetings with the assistants at all the embassies. Enhanced quality assurance also involves the improvement and updating of policies and tools. We are also in the process of doing so, including: The aid manual. As part of the ministry's follow-up to the work of embassies, an administrative review of the embassies in all our main cooperation countries will also be carried out during the current year. The follow-up of objectives and results and the follow-up to existing guidelines are strongly emphasised in these reviews. So this has happened in a general review and follow-up on the basis of the report. So to what's special for Mozambique. There we have, as is evident from our response to the Riksrevision, which is reflected in the Storing Document, developed a concrete follow-up plan with a number of points that I am not going to review in detail. It is already aware of the Committee. I just want to say that the embassy has prepared a first report on how they are now following up this follow-up plan. The Ministry will now review the report, also in the light of my recent visit to Mozambique. Norway, in cooperation with other donors, is now assisting its authorities in developing new systems to monitor the implementation of the poverty strategy and improve performance reporting – that is what I initially mentioned – through the new framework and these indicators that can provide results-oriented reporting. It will also be able to play in relation to the new budget proposals. We hope that we have something clear already for the 2005 budget proposal. Let me conclude by saying that there are some good news that I think it is important that the Storting knows. The first is that this household survey, which will now be the basis for the review and monitoring, shows that the poverty problems in Mozambique are actually falling. Absolute poverty has fallen from 69 p.m. in 1996/1997 to 54 pst. in 2002/2003. In fact, there is a significant reduction in a relatively short period of time. Here, too, the Central Statistical Office of Norway has contributed to the manufacture. We have a cooperation with the statistics agency of Mozambique, so Norway has also had a word in it – in terms of measurement, at least, and I believe also in relation to the results. The economic growth in Mozambique was at 7.1 pst. in 2002/2003, and it was in line with the objective of the poverty strategy. The joint review that has just been carried out by the budget support on which we and 14 other donors are involved demonstrated a high level of performance in the priority sectors of the strategy. In particular, it concerned education, health, agriculture and infrastructure. That also means that we're getting good results. In the last year, there has been a good increase in tax revenue, which means that the Mozambiquens themselves take responsibility for their own development. I just needed to bring these three new examples in a positive direction, so that the Storting also realizes that there is a good trend in Mozambique, despite the report we have on the table for treatment today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e126	For its part, the President will only draw attention to the fact that the Council of State has an excellent opportunity to deliver both objectives and priorities through the annual budgets, and the Storting has the opportunity to comment on them through its budgetary positions. If this happens in the course of the year, the Council of State also has the opportunity to bring new cases to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e129	This debate could, of course, tempt you to address a number of issues, perhaps not least some of the things that the representative Jacobsen was dealing with. But such a general debate will give us ample opportunity to come back to this in connection with the discussion of St.meld. No 35 if, among other things: the assistance work. Since the undersigned has been the case rapporteur for this matter and we have started work so far, I can at least mention that the Foreign Affairs Committee is aiming to give a position in mid-October and thus have it ready before we go into the budgetary work for 2005. There are probably a lot of things in this big message that could have implications for budgetary work already in 2005. Let me just say one thing, and that's that the relationships that are drawn out in this matter of Mozambique are widely addressed in the paper. There are a number of general problems of the type of anchoring in the beneficiary countries, coordination, concentration, harmonisation, sectoral programmes, budget support, and not least how evaluation systems need to be developed in parallel by changing the methods of delivery. Here, I believe, for my part, that we have a significant challenge to be proactive in contributing to the development of the evaluation tools themselves, which are obviously a demanding task in terms of the type of donor methods such as: budget support is. But, as I said, this is a great opportunity for us to come back. At least there is a very good basis in the big message, so there could be an interesting debate for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e136	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3017]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e151	[18:28:52]: The overall objective of the tariff and tax haven is to prevent the illegal import and export of goods and to ensure the correct establishment and payment of customs duties and charges, as set out in paragraph 1. inter alia: Act on customs duties of 10 June 1966 and the VAT Act of 19 June 1969. In 2002, the customs duty and levy rates applied for approx. NOK 124 billion in customs duties and charges. A large proportion of these revenues are determined on the basis of the data provided by customs and fiscal activities. Therefore, there is a central body of importance for the whole of the country’s business of which the National Audit Office has carried out an administrative audit, an activity audit. It is very important, for example: for all those engaged in business, that they know that their competitors pay the same taxes and taxes and comply with the laws and rules on points and points, as they do themselves. The distortion of competition, by some evading the same charges that competitors have, will be totally unacceptable in the long term, including for the Norwegian community. Therefore, the control that everyone does the same and that all equivalent conditions and situations are treated equally by the authorities is of very great social importance. That is why it is fine, and the Committee appreciates the fact that the Riksrevision has carried out this audit. However, we note that the studies reveal significant weaknesses. At the Committee's discretion, the results of the survey indicate that customs and charging rules are too complex for both the charging entity and the department. As a result, compliance with customs and charging rules becomes too much of a resource requirement for customs and charging providers, which is supported by the finding of the same type of errors in repeated checks. The combination of this complexity and the insufficient competence of the customs and tax haven, where appropriate capacity, to carry out the intended risk analyses further threatens legal certainty in the form of a level playing field, as the Riksaudition report suggests. The Committee stresses that the solution to the problem does not necessarily lie in increased appropriations but in a review of customs and charging rules with a view to simplification for users, while fully implementing its risk analysis procedures. This is a matter where the primary responsibility lies with the administration of the establishment. The Committee assumes that the Ministry of Finance will follow up the review of the relevant customs and charging rules and the risk analysis procedures, leading to better business control in the future. I ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that the Ministry of Finance will follow up these relevant customs and tax rules as required by the Committee in its vote. The Committee would also refer to the Court of Auditors’ view that, based on the significant amounts determined by self-declaration, the complex legislation and the lack of competence of the activities, the specific duty of care of the auditor should be extended to cover also customs duties and other duties established by the customs and tax haven. We have noticed that the Directorate of Customs and Fees will discuss this with the Norwegian Auditor's Association, and the Committee, like the National Audit Office, assumes that the Ministry of Finance will follow this up, calling for feedback to the Stortinget on the outcome of these discussions, including the Government's conclusion on the subject. As some time has passed since the Riksrevision conducted its investigation and made its views known, I would ask the Minister of Finance to explain this meeting between the Norwegian Auditor's Association and the Directorate where one would take this up and discuss it, and explain how far these possible negotiations have come, so that we can get feedback perhaps during this debate. If the Government has drawn any conclusion as to whether the auditor’s obligation should be extended, it would also be of interest to the Storting. And if the Government believes that something should be done concretely by the authorities, how is the timetable for implementing such a possible extension of the auditor's duties, and when will it be dealt with? With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e168	The results of the study show that errors are still to a large extent still being detected, even by repeated checks at the same company. This may indicate, as the Committee points out, that the control and charging rules are too complex both for the holding and for the establishment. However, the results may also indicate that the taxable activities do not give sufficient priority to the area. It is the duty of the establishment to intervene in the legislation in force in this area. In this context, the Customs and Fee Setaten has been committed and will continue to make a great deal of effort to provide guidance and information to those liable for customs and excise duties, both in connection with the control activities and through thematic brochures, business training and information on the websites, etc. Work on risk analyses has a high priority in the customs and tax haven. In this context, I would like to point out that the department has also previously carried out assessments of a more or less analytical nature related to the objects that have been subject to control. The results achieved in recent years indicate that the criteria used in the past for the selection and implementation of controls have also been relatively good. The customs and tax haven will focus on developing common systems and methodologies to better assess and weigh risks, so that the risk analysis of the establishment can contribute gradually to even more targeted activity control. The Ministry, as provided for by the Committee, will follow up the review of the relevant control and charging rules and the risk analysis procedures. In the dialogue with the National Audit Office, the Ministry has noted that it is not an objective for all the establishments concerned to be subject to regular business controls. The Ministry has pointed out that the production of the scope of control and the frequency of controls is somewhat distorted. From the point of view of the Ministry, the study is based on the total number of control objects without taking into account that only a smaller part of this number would be potentially interesting for control, in particular in relation to proceeds and post-calculation of customs duties and charges. In this perspective, the control frequency as presented by the Riksrevision is underestimated by the Ministry’s view. However, it is easy to agree that the control frequency in Oslo and Akershus should be higher in relation to the provincial importance of the district. In this respect, I would like to point out that the reorganisation process in the external management of the department has a more accurate resource dimensioning of the units in relation to the tasks as a primary point. In this process, particular attention will be paid to the situation in Oslo and Akershu customs region. The National Audit Board recommends that the specific duty of care of the auditor should also be extended to cover customs duties and other duties laid down by the customs and tax haven. I would like to show here that the directorate will take this matter up with the Norwegian Auditor's Association. The Ministry will give the Storting feedback on the outcome of these discussions. Finally, and more generally, I would like to stress that, in agreement with the Ministry, the Customs and Fees Act gives priority to measures necessary as a result of investigations into the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e183	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3017]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e199	Let me first point out a mistake that has crept into the setting on page 3, second column – so that neither government council nor presidency believes we have settled down. It says here: ‘The Committee has noted that in its reply to the Riksrevision...’. Such a committee has not been set up, so that its contents are «Ministry of Labour and Administration». The National Audit Office has carried out a number of investigations into the use of consulting services by the State in order to examine whether these state establishments have procedures and procedures, whether they are functional in purchasing such services, and whether these are appropriate ways of purchasing such services. There are large amounts the government spends on these services. It is also true that when purchasing consulting services, i.e. purchasing this kind of competence, it is regulated by both law and regulations how this should happen. Here again, the Riksrevision, I would have almost said, found many and some significant breaches of the provisions. There is reason to stress that there are so many and so significant breaches that it is very necessary to follow up the report that is now available from the Riksaudition in a very nine-time manner. For its part, the size has repeatedly addressed issues relating to improvements in national practices in this area. And of the errors and shortcomings that the Riksrevision now finds, we can see that these are errors and deficiencies that have repeated over time. Now I'm not going to say that there's no improvement. Of course it does. But we can probably say that these possible improvements at least don't happen very quickly. Only a few of the enterprises included in this survey have a systematised strategy for consulting purchases. This is, of course, a situation in which different businesses have less ability to manage and control effectively when using such services. The study also shows that a large part of the enterprises do not have defined guidelines for the purchase of such services. When I say a big part, it's a very big part. It's over half of those who were in the study. When purchasing such services, of course, it is partly in order to gain competence and help to implement a particular project, but in the agreement you enter into there must also be a transfer of competences, so that administrations are left with new skills and experience when the consultants go their way. So large parts of the businesses that were involved in this study have never included this in their agreements. We believe that it is very important that we now take a serious look at this. There appears to be some of these tasks without the conclusion of contracts. You kind of take things a little bit off. And a lot of the assignments are not evaluated at the end of the assignment, either in writing or orally. So to one thing that I think there is particular reason to point out. That is the provision for tenders where a contract exceeds NOK 200000. So here we find that several of these businesses -- I think it was six -- can tell you that the missions to get below the 200,000 kroner limit. They split them into several projects and thus drop out of tenders, and can arrange otherwise. Clearly, this is not acceptable. This should not continue. Finally, let me quote from the comments of the Control Committee in the vote: ‘The Committee points out that the Ministry has commissioned State Consulting to develop guidance material to enhance the quality of typical service purchases, including the purchase of consultants, carried out by state establishments. [[checklist]] Furthermore, a number of measures are in place to improve compliance with the public acquisition law.» The Committee is very pleased that this is now happening, and I am quite convinced that the next time the Storting has these kinds of issues for debate, the result will look completely different.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e229	This report identifies two main problems. Firstly, that during the investigation period it has been partially severed, with the actual practice of the law and regulation on public acquisitions and the competitive conditions underpinning the law. This applies both to the assessment itself of whether offers are to be obtained externally and to the detailed implementation of the actual provision of the consultancy service. Is it e.g. Are there any evidence that the cheapest option was chosen? Secondly, and almost the most important thing, the report shows that there is reason to question the extent to which individual state enterprises are able to use the consulting services they acquire in a sensible way. With regard to the procurement process itself, it is important, for the Right, to stress that the practical responsibility for the detailed implementation lies with the individual activities and assumes, as both the Ministry and the National Audit Office sees, that the manager is particularly aware of his responsibilities. When only 11 pst. the business has a written strategy for the purchase of consulting services, half a lack of guidelines, 73 pst. at least once has failed to enter into contracts in writing, most of them are in breach of the protocol and six businesses have bypassed the regulatory thresholds by breaking up the contracts, it is clear that there is a need not least for increased information on how the legislation is to be understood and for the Ministry to follow up its information activities on individual activities in order to make it and its managers better equipped for the future. Fortunately, some measures have already been implemented. Since this report was presented, the general regulatory counsellor has been corrected and a new supervisor, Environment and Public Acquisitions Code has been published. A practical guide on how public purchasers can improve their purchasing practices in terms of better enforcement of legislation is also being published at a well-known time. Furthermore, the establishment of the Government's Public Acquisition Complaint Sheet has made it considerably easier for suppliers to deal with complaints about the procurement process and the practice of the legislation. In March of this year the name had received approx. 300 complaints, of which 217 at the time they were notified to Stortinget, were processed. It is also known to me that a report on the experience of the first year of operation has been submitted. The experience from here will be important. A separate report on illegal direct acquisitions proposes further measures aimed at making it more difficult for contracting entities which do not know their responsibilities to comply with the statutory obligation to enter into competition in the contract. Depending on what can be subtracted from all these different reviews, it may be appropriate to correct the legislation in some areas, as the Government has already notified the Storting on several different occasions. It's important for the Right that this is followed up. However, all the negative findings in the National Audit Office's report, which, hopefully, will be much lower on the basis of these reviews, are not in itself an argument against purchasing consulting services, as the Right sees it, although some might claim it. There are many good reasons for purchasing consulting services. State establishments should initially focus on their core tasks and on the production of services, and there is therefore a need in certain areas, and it is desirable to obtain top-notch competences outside the establishments themselves. However, the premise that individual activities should have a real benefit from the use of consultants is that individual businesses and their managers have a conscious relationship with what they will have assessed in themselves, with those who have the task of seeing the business from the outside, and not least with how they intend to take advantage of the increased knowledge that consultants supposedly produce on the basis of the external perspective they have of improving their internal life, to the extent that they can be called, in individual state activities. This report shows, as mentioned, that there is still a considerable potential for improvement on both points, all the time in writing contracts, clear guidelines and procedures for ordering consultancy services, as well as for transferring competence to the employees of each establishment once a report is on the table, are lacking in many places. Both the majority and minorities of the Committee look critically at the widespread use of consultancy services within, for example: The IT area, which includes half of the consultancy costs of this study. It is not that it is wrong to get help from outside – it is probably right, as developments in the field of IT are taking place faster and faster. The main challenge here is the transfer of competence to staff, so that the need for consultants can be reduced later. Many individuals have probably also been told that one who knows the computer systems well enough to give answers is unfortunately not there when the need for answers is greatest. This does not apply only to small establishments. I have had my own experience both as a private individual and as a politician in a municipality with perhaps a few thousand employees, as instead of getting an answer to something when I needed it, I had to wait three weeks, because the one lady who happened to sit all alone with all the knowledge of a theme, and who could have pressed the right button and got the numbers I needed yesterday, unfortunately was on vacation. It's not a representative image, but most people are well aware that this type of example exists. This report is a useful contribution to clarify why this is the case, and I assume for the Right that the findings in this report are actively followed up by the Government. In addition, I refer to the point made by the rapporteur in the usual order and in a good manner, and to the final remarks made by the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e257	The theme of the purchase and use of consultancy services in state-owned businesses, as the rapporteur was in the case, has been a review of a number of issues that have been dealt with in the past by the National Audit Office and also by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. There have been repeated criticisms as a result of non-compliance with the procurement rules. I therefore think it is very positive that the Riksrevision has chosen to address this issue in isolation, in particular given the fact that this area appears to be becoming more and more important as a result of more and more tasks being put off for competition — ‘outsources’ — so that state enterprises can concentrate on their core tasks. In view of the number of exceedances previously documented and pointed out, it is not particularly surprising when this report also shows that it is not very good with the State that buys and uses consulting services. The report of the National Audit Office reveals that half of the establishments have not developed guidelines for the purchase and use of consultancy services. It is also obvious, therefore, that there will be acquisitions which are not governed by the legislation. Even more serious is the fact that the report identifies – as also commented on by the case-rapporteur – cases where a direct circumvention of the legislation is carried out. It is not appropriate to deal with the legislation, so that one finds solutions to circumvent the legislation, reduce the contract amounts and split tenders. There is a totally unacceptable practice which must cease immediately. For me and for the Progress Party, the principle of competition is absolutely fundamental in terms of public acquisitions. Only by carrying out tendering and tendering procedures will you ensure that you get the right product at the right price. A systematic circumvention of the legislation, which the report covers to a certain extent, may result in the use of much more money by the State than is necessary for such services and thus imposes large additional costs on the Norwegian people via the tax haven. It is the different departments that are ultimately responsible for ensuring compliance with the applicable legislation. So, as we see it, it's critical that we haven't focused more on this area much earlier. That's a good example of the large number of these issues that the committee has been involved in in the past. We therefore assume that the measures that are now being or are being implemented will have the necessary effect. We also assume that there will be a strong and much better follow-up in this area in the future than what has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e270	The national audit has carried out several studies on different aspects of state consultancy in the last 10-15 years. The purpose has been to examine whether state establishments have appropriate procedures and procedures for the purchase and use of consultancy services. This survey is based on the analysis of computer data from questionnaire surveys in 74 state-owned enterprises, which use about 20 %. NOK 2.3 billion for the purchase of consulting services. This is a significant amount, and more than half is used in the IT field. The question of improving the state’s procedures for purchasing consulting services has been dealt with in Stortinget several times. What has been emphasised by Storting is the need for strategies and guidelines for the purchase of consultancy services, and not least for transfer of competences from consultant to employer. The national audit has revealed serious errors and deficiencies in public acquisitions in many parts of central government through these investigations. The purpose of this study has been to examine whether state establishments have appropriate procedures and procedures for the purchase and use of these services. Half of the enterprises surveyed did not keep a procurement record for all purchases above NOK 200000. Businesses have not developed strategies for the purchase and use of consultancy services and more than half of their businesses have not developed guidelines for the purchase of these services. Furthermore, the survey shows that three-quarters of enterprises have engaged the same consultants several times in the last three years. This is poorly consistent with the Storting’s view of facilitating the transfer of skills from consultants to employees with a view to reducing the business’s needs for the purchase of such services in the future. The absence — and lack of evaluation — of the use of consultants is also something that needs to be followed up in the future. Critical and serious issues have been identified. Significant funds are being used here without complying with legislation and guidelines. Several circumventions of the legislation have been documented, as the Riksrevision points out. It has led to a purchasing practice that can help to weaken competition in the purchase of consulting services in the country, which this government should be concerned about The Ministry of Labour and Administration has noted in its reply to the National Audit Office that the Government, in the process of modernising the public sector, has reinforced that responsibility for its own procurement lies with each enterprise, and that procurement to the State is thus a decentralised responsibility. SV will stress, as the majority of the Committee, the overall responsibility of the Government for the management of public funds through the purchase of consulting services according to Storting's assumptions and applicable legislation. This is the responsibility of the Government. The overall responsibility cannot be sub-delegated. There is also a great deal of question about whether efficiency, modernisation and downsizing have gone too far in the public sector when consulting for DKK 2.3 billion. The measures taken and proposed and the mandate given to the State Consultant to develop guidance material are positive. However, the seriousness and extent of the critical issues identified in the study require a close follow-up from the government in the future. The right-wing representative was concerned in his statement that the enterprises would carry out core tasks and that there was a need for consulting. Of course, consulting is necessary, but when you use over 50 pst. of this huge amount in the IT sector, one can begin to wonder if it would not have been more profitable to have a separate IT department.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e289	I welcome the broad opening up of competition as an instrument for the efficient provision of services. I also want to make the last speaker aware that there is an IT department in the state, and it is large. But as in any IT department, even in large companies, there is sometimes a need for top skills, and the study does not provide any basis for believing that it is cheaper to employ this top competence for the wages of the market than to buy it when you need it. The Committee's views on the need and scope of consultancy services, in particular in the IT sector, will be followed up by the Ministry of Labour and Administration. In the choice between buying services in the market and own-account production, which was at stake, it is not just a matter of organisation. It's just as much about strategy, efficiency and cost awareness in these floors. I agree, of course, with the so-called illegal direct acquisitions, that is. substantially substantiating the task of falling below the national threshold for tenders of NOK 200000 is unacceptable. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is working on proposals for new provisions of the procurement legislation to make this type of practice more difficult. It is very important that all government employees receive the best possible help in carrying out a frequently demanding order role. The Ministry of Labour and Administration has therefore entrusted Statskonsult with the task of drawing up a checklist on the requirements for the order role and how they should be taken care of in order to make a good and correct order. The aim is to enhance the quality of the procurement process for all consultancy services. The guide shall be completed by October of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e303	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Food, see page 3017]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e319	The intelligence, surveillance and security service control committee of the Trustee shall report annually on its activities to the Stortinget. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has examined the notification and is of the opinion that the sample plays a very important role in exercising control over the comprehensive and sensitive tasks represented by the EOS services. The annual report of the EOS Committee for 2003 shows, as in previous years, a significant control activity. 24 inspections have been carried out and 22 complaints have been dealt with. The Committee is very pleased that none of the complaints have resulted in criticism from the sample, and this, combined with a reduction in the number of complaints, suggests that the services operate in the manner foreseen. The issue of the provision of personal data to cooperative services abroad has previously been a topic of the processing of the annual report. The Committee is pleased that the sample considers that the PST now has adequate procedures in place to deal with this type of issue. The relationship between the sample and the police special investigation body, SEFO, has been a topic that has been raised in the Annual Report this year. This has been updated by SEFO initiating investigations of officials operating in the EOS area. It thus becomes a frontier sea in which both the SEFO and the EOS Committee operate. The Committee agrees here with the evaluations of the sample and is pleased that there is now a common understanding between the Advocate General, SEFO and the sample on how to deal with these types of cases. However, the Committee would stress that good cooperation procedures between SEFO and the sample are a necessity and are subject to continuous follow-up. The relationship with the overall prosecution authority has also been a subject of this Annual Report. The Committee notes that this is being updated by transferring matters within the field of competence of the PST to Ecocrim. This applies, inter alia, to: investigation concerning Ansar al-Islam and investigation of Mulla Krekar. Ecocrime is the overall prosecution authority and, in the view of the majority, these cannot be subject to the control of the EOS Committee. In the view of the majority, the freedom and independence of the prosecution authority are a very important democratic principle, and it would be contrary to having parliamentary control over the prosecution authority. However, the majority see the problem if more and more cases within the EOS area are subject to the Ecocrim investigation; this could lead to a narrowing of the control area. The majority of the Committee is therefore of the opinion that if it is seen to be a trend and that more and more cases in this area are being added to Ecocrime, there will be a basis for a wider investigation of this issue. Then you will have to go back inside and look at how to handle these kinds of things. The annual report of the committee also shows that the relationship between the PST and the non-resident authorities is not sufficiently formalised. Neither the sample nor the alienation authorities seem to be satisfied with current cooperation and communication procedures. The Committee records this situation and assumes that there is something to be done to clarify, so that issues in the frontier country between these services are dealt with as best as possible. So to a relationship within the national safety authority that the Committee has taken particular note of. There is one case in which the notification shows that the maculation of archive material should have been, or at least could have been, open for transparency. The Committee would therefore stress that such mutilation must be postponed until the Transparency Committee has completed its work in 2006 and its conclusions are available. It is also in line with and underlined what is in the Annual Report. Finally, I would just like to say briefly that the Committee has registered the request of the sample for a strengthening of the secretariat function. It is a matter which will be brought back in the context of the budget procedure of the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e338	Very short: Now the case rapporteur was very clear on this point, but we will also repeat it for our part. This is the case with issues that are transferred to Ecocrim and therefore fall outside the control of the sample. Now the Committee writes in its comment: ‘The majority subscribe to this statement and point out that if one receives such a development’ — i.e. more and more cases end up with Økokrim — ‘the question of the relationship to the control of the sample should probably be the subject of a broader investigation’. This does not, therefore, reflect – quite in line with what the rapporteur said – the idea in Stortinget that it may be appropriate to establish a control of the overall prosecution authority. So it's not at all in this idea. There are questions about finding other solutions. It is possible for the Minister of Justice to have an appropriate assessment of whether transfers to Ecokrim should be made only in cases where the specific competence of Ecokrim so warrants – but I am sure it will find its solution. So I would also be allowed to say that it now turns out that over these years, the EOS Committee has become a significant and very important instrument in democratic control of the secret services. And just like the rapporteur said, it is important that the Storting make sure that this sample now has the working capacity needed to carry out the tasks that the Storting expects it to do. That is why I expect that in a few days we can also put in place the position that this sample so badly needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e352	The EOS Committee has an important and perhaps sometimes difficult task at a time when, on the one hand, we are in the crossroads between increasing emphasis on counter-terrorism and international security and, on the other hand, at the same time want to safeguard the rule of law and human rights. The surveillance police are also operating in this cutting field, and this may at times be challenging and difficult. Therefore, I would first like to say that SV is happy that the sample on several points in this annual report reports back to Stortinget that the monitoring police have moved on in areas where the Stortinget has previously been concerned, and that it has put in place procedures that hold. However, there are some points in which we think the Storting or Government still needs to sign out what the sample comes with – first of all, with regard to the disclosure of personal data. So here, the EOS Committee says that the regulatory situation for the provision of personal data is unclear. I hope that this is a ambiguity the surveillance police must not act over time, and that the council or others will be able to tell how to clean up this ambiguity. Because it is clear that it is difficult – at a time when we see that even nations that we have considered to be our closest allies use methods in relation to research and questioning that we can hardly be familiar with – to know where the limits should go in relation to just providing personal data. Responses to this should come from a political point of view, not be left to the surveillance police to find on their own. Further to the case of Ecocrim, which is of course a bit in a special position as both the overall prosecution authority and the investigating body at the same time. Now I don't perceive that there is a very big difference between SV's approach here and what is the majority view of the committee, because both of them, in my opinion, believe that if it turns out that more and more issues within the control area of the EOS Committee are being investigated by Ecocrim, it will somehow have to be something the Storting has to deal with. But I would just like to stress the importance, also for services, that there is no question as to whether a tactical assessment can be made of who is to be researched from the point of view of being able to escape the control of the sample. I do not think that has happened, but we have seen in the public that the type of information has been raised from some people. I think it is particularly important precisely for the trust in the control of the secret services, for the trust in the EOS Committee – because at all the confidence in the investigation work – that there is no basis for raising that kind of question. So if it were to happen that several things were to be transferred to Ecocrim and thus fall outside the control area of the sample, there would be something we would have to deal with, if nothing else so as to eliminate any doubt that this is being done for any reason other than purely investigative. Finally, I would like to comment on the so-called Riser case. There I am very pleased that there is an overall committee that can join the rose that the EOS Committee has given to the police. So in this case, in the public domain, there was a question as to whether the PST had a free-handed relationship with national control, a little thoughtful relationship with how to cooperate with the secret services of other countries. And so we're getting feedback here from the EOS Committee -- on a general, correct basis -- that the PST gave the sample the impression of being aware of the requirement of national control and what it also implies in relation to any activity performed by collaborative services. I read it as a confirmation that the PST has been conscious of its responsibility here, that it is not that secret services from other countries – which are our allies – can operate on their own in Norway, and I find that very reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e363	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3017]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e383	We live in a society with increasing freedom and with increasing opportunity to influence the services we get or demand. We take it as a matter of course that we can choose and choose between different types of services and providers of daily life’s large and small tasks, whether in terms of choice of store, car workshop, hairdresser, telecommunications operator, bank or insurance company, to mention someone. We've also been used to increasing the degree of flexibility compared to when we want to receive different services. Much of what we take for granted today has not always been. I remember the discussion about the abolition of the NRK monopoly. The question of competing television channels and close-door radio was controversial. But no one, even in this room, would have suggested today to reverse this development, so that we had once again got a media monopoly. Choices that we users have worked ourselves up, we view as a matter of course. A reversal, whether media monopoly or the possibility of selling milk in the evening, would be seen as an unacceptable interference by the authorities. Although public authorities have begun to facilitate user choice and influence in some areas, there is still much to be done. In my interpellation, I point specifically to care services. Now, many people say that care services cannot be compared to the freedom to choose a TV channel or the freedom to choose between 20 varieties of toothpaste. I fully agree with that. Much of what I initially used as an example is luxury services and goods in relation to the basic needs of care. This is precisely why it is totally incomprehensible that we have not come any further in the development of user involvement and the ability to choose between different service providers in this sector. It is probably not in any other area where services are received, that services are more intimate and private than in the care sector, services that are ‘necessary’ to be able to cope with everyday life and to live a worthwhile life, which is intimate in relation to your own body, your own life situation, and your own home and home. It's probably hardly in any other area where we need services, that we know best where the shoe prints. In this context, it is difficult to understand that we have come as short as we have in terms of user influence. Before I get into the benefits and value of user choice, I want to take to heart the objection that most often arises when this theme is launched, namely: What about all those who do not want or can choose, or who cannot or will not be able to influence the service provision they are to receive? I think we can all agree that user involvement is not a coercion, but an opportunity. There must also be freedom to refrain from choosing and, at the same time, to ensure a good service offer. However, the fact that some, possibly related, dissociate from the possibility of user involvement because they cannot or will not, must not deprive everyone else of the possibility to actively influence the services they receive. Freedom of choice is important because each individual should be able to exercise influence and control over his or her own daily life. It's about the individual going from being a passive receiver to becoming an active user. Now, user choice and outsourcing are not the same. While user choice implies freedom for citizens to choose a service provider, competitive design means that municipalities distribute users between service providers. However, if users are to have genuine freedom of choice, it should be possible to choose between different service providers. Preferences may also mean better quality. When different service providers have to compete with each other, more attention will be paid to quality. Session Options could lead to increased user involvement. You don't want to choose one who provides services if you think you want one's content to be ignored. Growing diversity could also lead to new ways of providing care services, which in itself will help to improve the quality of welfare services. No matter how you organise the care and care services, it is the municipalities that are responsible for ensuring that those who need it receive the necessary care and care. It is important that this responsibility remains with the municipalities. Those responsible for the fact that older people and others in need of care should receive what they need should be the closest possible citizen. However, it is important that municipalities, as part of their responsibility, facilitate both user choice and user involvement in the content of services. Local authorities must also ensure that older people and caregivers have a real impact within their own services. There is no reason for active user involvement not to be present within publicly produced services. It is also important that, within a municipal responsibility, artificial geographical boundaries are not created, which means that where you live is more important than what you need. Unfortunately, this is happening today. In such cases, local considerations must give way to the right to choose. Nor should we forget that although it is the public that has been and is the dominant provider of care services, it has been a good tradition in Norway that private operators, including voluntary organisations, have been providers of care services. Freedom of choice is also important in order to avoid the development of a new class distinction, because the obstacles that people face today when they want greater freedom of choice do so. Those with large financial resources have the option of choosing freely and paying for themselves, while the lack of real competition that prevents the emergence of a wide range of offers causes everyone else to be given a public monopoly. The right to choose is too limited by the financial resources of individuals. If citizens are to be given the prerequisites for their choice, they must have the information available. The schools have received their quality portal. It shouldn't stop there. Maybe we can learn something by looking at our neighboring country Denmark. A free choice database has been introduced, in which all municipalities in Denmark are required to report and publish their quality and price requirements. The purpose of this database is to provide citizens, municipalities and suppliers with easy access to the published price and quality requirements, to register suppliers authorised for the provision of personal and practical assistance in individual municipalities, and to facilitate access to the continuous follow-up to the implementation of Denmark’s new user choice legislation. Although we experience greater freedom in some areas, it is provocative that in the most important areas of life it remains that politicians and bureaucrats take the elections for us to a large extent. Trust in the individual is one of the most basic things for the Right. Freedom to choose is about having confidence in the individual, trusting that each of us can make decisions that are best for yourself or for one's neighbor. Therefore, as users of public services, we should all ask politicians who deny us this freedom of choice, which means that they are better able to make choices on our behalf than we can be on our own. Not so many sites have introduced user choices in the care service, but an evaluation report summarising the experience of user choice in two parts of Oslo was presented in February. The newspaper wrote this when the user survey was presented: «The home service user selection system has given home workers more time in active service with the users.» Further: ‘The municipal home workers felt that they were getting better and that the new organisation gave increased focus to the working environment.’ One of the older people who was satisfied said this: now I have finally received a home help that washes on top of the lists. We have taken too much away the ability to control our own life situation, to control our own home – people who, even though the body starts to fail physically, can have a clearer head than both me and you. Therefore, any local politician has a responsibility to ask himself the question: How can I increase the freedom of choice for the elderly and caregivers in my municipality? The cooperation manager has increased user choices on its agenda. Today, when I address this interpellation to the Social Minister, it is because she has a special responsibility for the care services that are offered to our elderly and others who need such services. That is why I look forward to the answer to what needs to be done, and what will be done to strengthen freedom of choice and user participation in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e436	I thank you for the interpellation, which gives us the opportunity for a thorough debate on key issues and ideological divisions in the development of the care and care services of the future. As the interpellant has been involved, increased freedom of choice and user participation are key objectives of the Government. The starting point is that the public services are available for users. The design of services shall be governed by the wishes and needs of users. Selective choice means that the individual can choose freely between different providers of a public service. Freedom of choice may be introduced between different public operators or between public and private operators. It is a public responsibility to ensure that services are provided and that they maintain the necessary quality. The public shall also finance the services. Furthermore, it is clear that user choice should be an option for those who want it. However, there shall not be a requirement to choose a service for users who cannot or do not want to do so. The users’ needs for good quality services shall be met regardless of their willingness or ability to choose. Municipal care services are a key pillar of welfare services. These services are aimed at helping to cope with everyday life’s tasks. Some users are dependent on help throughout their lives, while others are concerned with care in the last days of life. These services include 200000 users per day and may range from home help and support to health care facilities. When it comes to issues of such a fundamental nature in the everyday lives of users, it should be obvious that freedom of choice and considerable influence on the design of services should be exercised. Preferences are about the empowered person who can control his own life. User choices help to strengthen citizens' rights, while being an effective tool for modernising the public sector. User preferences ensure that public services are consistent with what they just want. Services need to be customised to the user and not vice versa. This represents a new and better reflection on the relationship between the individual and the public. If the user choice is to be real, there must also be several service providers to choose from. A wide range of services is important for adapting services to the different needs and needs of individuals. The government has launched a major effort to strengthen the possibility of freedom of choice and user participation in municipal care services. The responsibility for providing the necessary care services is firmly placed with the municipality, and the Stortinget recently agreed to this in the treatment of St.meld. No 45 for 2002-2003 on the quality of care services. The government has put in place a number of measures to increase the ability of municipalities to offer users freedom of choice and to ensure increased user involvement. The central association of municipalities is an important partner in this context. The Ministry of Local Affairs and the Local Governments’ Central Association have taken the initiative of a network of municipalities that wanted to work with user choices in the school and care sectors. In the so-called user choice network, ten municipalities participated, eight of them working on user choices in the care sector. Through the network, we have received an experience transfer and also highlighted many of the questions that arise when a municipality assesses the introduction of user choices. Practical tools and methodology have been developed for this work, from which several municipalities can benefit. The Ministry of Local Affairs and the Federation of Local Authorities has published a guide on user choices that can be used by municipalities in their work in this area. In addition, an experience conference has also recently been held, where experience has just been presented and discussed in a broader perspective. So far there are two municipalities that have used user choices in the care sector, Oslo and Bærum. Eide municipality in More and Romesdal is just around the corner with its start-up of the scheme. To get started, municipalities have chosen to focus on practical help at home. Home services are well suited to testing the user choice system. In the districts of Nordstrand and Lambertseter in Oslo, users can choose home care services from private actors as well as the municipal home care service. The offer from the Church’s Bymition places particular emphasis on getting the smallest possible person to deal with, while the two nurses’ company Privat Nursing market itself as “a home service you’ll be happy with”. En-route evaluations from these urban areas point to the benefits and challenges of the user choice system. It is gratifying that, in line with the government's starting point, the en route evaluation determines that users are given real choices, either on their own or through relatives. The evaluation so far also shows that more time is spent on users than before. 11 pst. by the users in the districts have chosen a private home service provider. The new users are more active in using user preferences, of which 21 are pst. selected private supplier. However, it should be noted that information provided to users should be improved. Own municipality in More and Romesdal will now try out user choice of home services. The municipality laid on 1 June this year 50 pst. out of the home care services to private providers. It will be exciting to hear the experiences of a small municipality with 3,300 people using user choices. I have briefly mentioned some examples of courageous municipalities that have not let themselves be intimidated by the challenges, but which start in the small and give users greater influence. They gain experience of their own organisation and of the needs of users, in order to further develop the service provision. The government's task is not to control the municipalities in detail. Nursing and care services are a municipal responsibility and municipalities should have the freedom to design services in line with local needs. The government endorsed Storting’s strategy to increase the quality of care services in the treatment of St.meld. No 45 for 2002-2003. This quality strategy enables municipalities to develop increased user choice and involvement. Efficiency networks have also been established under the auspices of the Local Government and the Ministry of Local Government. This quality system gives us the basis for systematic comparisons between municipalities. The municipalities carry out user surveys and monitor the objective quality of the services. A total of 170 000 users have participated in user surveys in the first two years of the network. Such measurements provide a basis for improving services. The government therefore sees user surveys as an important part of quality development work. Public services improve when users participate in the shaping of the service provision. The size has recently addressed two major issues in which the Government has presented strategies to strengthen the potential of users to influence the design of public services, namely St.meld. No 40 for 2002–03, which deals with policies for people with disabilities, and St.meld. No 45 for 2002-2003, which deals with the quality of care services. In order to strengthen user involvement in care services, measures for increased user involvement at individual and system level have been put in place. At system level, user involvement is about the involvement of representatives of organisations and advice in the design of services and actions. Municipal Elder Councils are a statutory and well-functioning system. The size has decided to legislate municipal councils for disabled people. The Government is now working on the follow-up to this Decision, which is to ensure that representatives of disabled people’s organisations are given through municipal councils the opportunity to participate in municipal planning processes and the development of the municipality’s own service provision. In meeting representatives of the elderly council, I get feedback that they are being heard and have an influence on the municipality's offer. At individual level, the requirement for user participation is laid down in legislation, both in general administrative law and in specific legislation. The introduction of an individual level, now based on both health and social services legislation, represents a major step forward for user involvement. Users with long-standing relations with public services say that the introduction of individual plans gives an experience of being heard and met with respect in the auxiliaries. They feel that their own desires get more weight. When designing an individual plan, resources are also triggered by the users themselves. It is important for the Government that the right to an individual level is now well known and put into practice by the users concerned. The Ministry deals with regulations and advises on the scheme. Through the system of user-led personal assistance, care services have progressed in strengthening the influence of users on the design of the service provision. It is based on the very principles underpinning the Government's emphasis on freedom of choice. It is the user of the service who can best assess how the service can be organised. The scheme assumes that it is the user himself who performs the functions of supervisor. Experience is positive, and the Government wants the scheme to be applied more fully. That is also the background that the Government for the current year has granted nearly 49 million. kr for incentive grants to municipalities that want to establish a system of user-led personal assistant. Being able to choose services for yourself and decide on your own life and everyday life has a value in itself. At the same time, we learn that the user choice system is an effective modernisation tool. Through such a scheme, municipalities and the various service providers, private and public, have to document their services better. There is a greater diversity of services, making it easier for users to choose and design services according to their own needs and wishes. The user choice approach contributes to an increased awareness of the link between quality, organisation and resource use of all involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e485	I thank the Minister for the answer. It is very gratifying to note that the Government has an offensive strategy to strengthen the possibility of freedom of choice and user participation in municipal care services. The Minister of Social Affairs points out that care services are a municipal responsibility and that municipalities should have the freedom to design services in line with local needs. I fully agree with that. At the same time, it is obvious that government and corruption have a high responsibility to stimulate and facilitate user choice and participation in municipalities. Valuable experience has been gained through the user choice network, and it is very important that the practical tools and methodology developed are now used in the municipalities. In order to achieve results in terms of increased freedom of choice, it is necessary to focus on opportunities, not on constraints. Just like that, you've been thinking in Eide municipality in More and Romesdal. They now prove that user choice is possible, even in a small municipality. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I believe that the Government is continuously assessing new instruments that really lead to municipalities actively providing a wide range of services. Experience with user choice in care services shows that only a small proportion of users actively use the right to choose a supplier other than the municipalities, but for those who exercise this right, freedom of choice is crucial. I would also like to highlight the importance of good information to users, both about the options to choose and about the different options. The better the information, the more real the freedom of choice becomes. Freedom of choice has a value in itself. I am pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs agrees with me. The need for care and care is one of our most fundamental needs, and therefore freedom of choice is particularly important in this area. User preferences and user involvement are key to a whole new way of thinking, a way of thinking that means that it is the user and the user’s needs that are put in the centre. The implementation of this way of thinking requires continuous focus both on the part of the Government and the local authorities. The Social Minister's response to my interview shows that the Government takes this work seriously, and that there are clear plans and ambitions for increased freedom of choice and user involvement in care services. I think that's reassuring. I will end by asking the Minister of Social Affairs a question in relation to those users who cannot or do not want to make use of user choices. User studies are an important keyword, but there will be a need for objective quality requirements in addition. How will the Minister of Social Affairs ensure objective quality in order to meet the needs of this group for care and care?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e511	User studies are necessary but not sufficient to ensure a good quality of service. We have stressed that, among other things. in St.meld. No 45, which I referred to instead. We have also said that the objective quality requirements must be further developed. There are a number of objective quality requirements, both in legislation and in professional standards for activities. Both the municipalities and the regional State have a responsibility to ensure that these requirements are met in the day-to-day activities. There are requirements in legislation, including: in the Local Health Service Act and the Patient Rights Act, and in the Social Services Act, there are provisions on the professionally sound level of services. The Quality Regulation for Nursing and Nursing Services contains rules that provide clear guidance on the basic needs to be met. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health also works with a guide to the Quality Regulation. In addition, the Administrative Act contains guarantees of legal certainty which require the proper handling and redress of complaints. In addition, municipalities have a separate responsibility to ensure that services and offers are sound, that is under their own control and internal control. That responsibility is complemented by an internal control obligation, which is based on both the social service law and health law. This means that municipalities must have procedures in place to ensure systematically that the services are of the required quality. Apart from that, the regional State has responsibility for the supervision of municipal social and health services, and their task is to ensure that the services provided by the municipality comply with the regulatory requirements and with the prudential requirements. In addition, the directorate has a responsibility to provide professional guidance to the municipalities. It takes the form of circulars, guides and other forms of recommendation. They have also drawn up a proposal for a national strategy for quality improvement in social and health services as an overall framework for quality work. In addition, the Government has concluded an agreement with the Local Governments’ Central Association on the development of municipal care services, with the aim of establishing a quality system for care services in municipalities by the end of 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e522	It is obvious how representatives from the right use honorary words such as modernisation, freedom of choice and user involvement when actually talking about privatisation and market management. It has not been long since we here in Stortinget dealt with the quality of the municipal care services. What was quite obvious in this regard was the need to focus on quality in what was provided by municipal care services. It was not focused on the lack of freedom of choice in relation to the offer, but it was clearly documented as a lack of offer. If we are to get some way into the development of municipal care, this is the focus we still need. When users show their dissatisfaction with the provision of care, there is no dissatisfaction with the lack of choice, but dissatisfaction with the lack of provision of services. If you receive two hours of home help every fourteen days or every three weeks, the problem is not freedom of choice, but the lack of offer. The residents of the hospital do not complain of lack of freedom of choice, but they express dissatisfaction that there is not enough medical service, and dissatisfaction that they have to lie down at noon. 17 in the afternoon. When staff say that they must start with the evening position early in the afternoon because of staff shortages, it is not a matter of freedom of choice, but a matter of obtaining basic rights, which the public must ensure. The Labour Party is opposed to a trend that increasingly sees caring people as customers, and to the comparison that also the representative Hundhammer did, which compared nurturing with customers in the store or in other market conditions. The Workers' Party wishes to maintain that this concerns the citizens of society and their citizens' right to individualised care services, and this type of rights will never be ensured through the market or outsourced to competition for those with high needs. We therefore see no reason for these care services to be based to a greater extent than now on private profit interests. Our solution is to ensure the quality of care services. That's what older citizens are asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e533	‘Standing strangers in the shower’ is the title of an article in the VG on Sunday. The reader post has been signed by "Sint Kinderchild". The granddaughter writes about the grandmother, who is still up and living at home at the age of 90. She only needs help to shower, wash her hair, roll it up and wash the house once in a while. In this way, the offer works fine, writes the grandchild. But then the granddaughter asks an important question: ‘But do you politicians understand that at that age it takes time to build trust, and how uplifting it is for the elderly when you just move around on the system for the elderly to have to deal with new people in such intimate areas?’ As one of the politicians responsible for the offer to the elderly, I think that is a very good question. That is really what the representative Beate Heieren Hundhammer is also asking in his interview. We have rightly focused strongly in recent years on the development of the provision of older people. As the Minister of Social Affairs pointed out in his speech, the government has now also begun to focus on the quality of services. Option and user involvement are crucial. It's about what you focus on in the ministry. In a rule-based monopoly system, based on who can provide the service and where the debate is about having a national minimum standard or one, the user will become less important. Sew this on your head, so that the user has the ability to choose and choose, we think that the attitudes of the whole system will change. Perhaps Grandma would have chosen to have one or two people to deal with, instead of necessarily coming on a fixed day. Perhaps the safety that grandmother would get by being able to choose offers at home herself would lead her to feel that it would be nice to stay at home longer – and maybe live out. This puts the post of the representative Britt Hildeng in a strange light. It seems that the Labour Party is continuing a debate that took place ten years ago. I actually think Grandma would like to feel like a customer if she had the opportunity to do that, if she could choose security, stability, if that was an alternative. Unfortunately, in today's system the choice is present in too few municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e547	I will give tribute to the interpellant for having raised an important debate. The few speakers that have so far spoken show that this is one of the areas where there are actually dividing lines in this room. After all, you almost have to be a member of the Workers’ Party – and have been for a number of years – in order to be able to produce the words ‘user participation’ and ‘freedom of choice’ as negatively charged words. I think it's almost an achievement in itself. And in the case of the word «customer», yes, for all things, you must not become a customer when you get older. It's just going to be when you're up and you don't need help. Then it is great to be able to be a customer and get to choose. But if you grow old and need help, you must not become a customer for God’s sake! When I get older and need help, I really hope that those who are going to provide me with a service, at least look at me as a customer, a customer who actually, if I do not get the service I want, can be allowed to choose. And if I don't get a real favor, I can go to someone else. It was to be lacking that we should not be allowed to choose even when we become old and needy! The big horror scenario is, of course, Granny's on offer. It's horrible! Even the fact that grandma will actually be allowed to choose which nursing home she might be allowed to enter in the future has almost been viewed as negative in the debate. Those who have enough money have always had choices. They've always been able to choose. In fact, the introduction of the kind of freedom of choice referred to here is made so that most people can also choose, not just those with the boldest wallets. It is important that we have actually come to the point where the money can follow the individual, given the needs of the individual for care services, that they can freely go out and buy the services they want and need. Only then will we have a system that can work. Today, most people have to stand there with lua in their hands and take what they are offered by the municipality. If you're not satisfied with that, you don't get any other help, because that's the help you have to offer. I fully agree with the interpellant, who said: the freedom of choice in itself is also a value. Let's put freedom of choice as high as citizens do, and they can also get the services they need and deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e562	The interpellant is concerned with words such as freedom of choice and empowerment of users in respect of services provided by the public. The type of general considerations is not so difficult to agree with. But the important thing is what kind of freedom we're talking about. On the right, it makes it so that people are the most concerned about kindergarten, school or, like here, nursing home or nursing home, are to be customers on the shopping round to find the best goods, with the best quality and at the lowest price possible. I don't think most people are so very concerned with this type of freedom of choice. I think very few old, sick and nurturing want to move around the country depending on where the best nursing homes or nursing homes are. What is crucial, however, when people need help and assistance, whether at home, in nursing homes or in nursing homes, is that the offer is actually there, and that there is where people live, and also that the quality of this offer is perceived as good by users. This freedom is committed to ensuring the care sector as well. The SV will ensure both that the level of public care provision is sufficient and that the quality of the public supply is high. It means a higher quality than what's in many places today. This is the most important freedom for users in the care sector. The size was treated a few weeks ago St.meld. No 45 for 2002–03 on the quality of care services. The most important thing for SV in the handling of that case was to stress that it would not be possible to achieve either high enough capacity or good enough quality in the care and care sector without both more hands and more qualified hands to do this job. And it will mean a significant economic uplift for Norwegian municipalities to take care of this. Within the financial framework of Norwegian municipalities today, SV clearly believes that this is simply not possible. Then it's not the freedom of choice Right talking about, which is the most important thing. The challenge to the Right here in the Stortinget, and to the Council of State from the Right, will be whether they actually believe that the freedom of choice relating to high quality, which the party is so concerned about, can be realized within today's municipal economy. Otherwise, this is just talking! Also, S.V. is concerned that it is those who are users of care services, who are entitled to assess what is good quality, and that also means that they must have a high degree of participation, participation and real appeal if they are not satisfied with the offer. This is important for the development of quality. But those who want the quality we demand also have to be willing to pay the price, and in that question, the Right has little to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e575	In this debate, I would like to focus on the recipients of the services and not debate for or against private providers of services to the elderly and caregivers. In a report in the evening post on 23 April, we met Mrs. Berger, who needs help in the care of her household, and who wants this exactly and well supplied by a helper she knows. It makes it harder for a home assistant not to get to the agreed time when the user has the opportunity to switch, she says. I love Mrs. Berger and everyone else to be able to choose freely between various providers of public services where it is possible to do so. In recent years, we have had an older policy effort to get older people to live in their homes as far as possible. Therefore, we find a need for extensive care in the world. Many of these anguish with mental disorders and dementia. Some older people sometimes feel isolated in their own homes. The home assistant should meet the most basic needs within a limited time frame. These older people do not always have the possibility to choose, or dependants in the vicinity who can make sure that bills are paid or that services are ordered. I am therefore glad that today we have also managed to focus on just these. In the option of St.meld. No 45 for 2002–03, the majority in the Social Committee concluded that it is a public responsibility to provide the necessary care services for individuals. The Christian People's Party believes that it's not a decision who performs the services, but that the services maintain the necessary quality. The government has undertaken an extensive effort to facilitate choice and user participation in municipal care services. The people who want to do this can choose the performers of the services. However, there should be no requirement to select services for users who cannot or do not want them. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs has stressed that users’ needs for quality services should be met, regardless of their willingness or ability. Larger options and user involvement are in the wind. It is good to be able to offer greater freedom of choice and participation to the recipients of help. Getting an impact on your own life situation by choosing the design of the services when a person is initially dependent on help strengthens the sense of anxiety. The Christian People's Party is concerned that those who no longer benefit from choices in life – the weakest of the elderly – will also be taken care of. The Christian People's Party believes that the quality of services, both public and private, must be measured primarily by how we manage the users of services as human beings. For this reason, it is important to recognise that when standards are created for home services, they also have to meet the needs of the weakest users. This requires that we, as politicians, should have two thoughts in our head at once: health choices and user participation welcome in the care and care services, but also to take them down and show them the power to act on behalf of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e594	It is very good that the question of a more dignified care comes on the agenda. But when I listen to the interpellant saying comparison between care services and the car, hairdresser and even toothpaste, it seemed to me to be a sea of distance between the Right's perception of everyday life as a caregiver, as a relative or as a caregiver, and the reality of the day in most municipalities in this country. I assume that the Right both in the big and the government knows that there are still older people in this country who are concerned if they get a sick home place when they need it, if they have the possibility of getting a care home, if they get the necessary hours from home care, so they can get home, which wonders how they can avoid cutbacks in the most necessary home care hours. The choice of many local populace consists for the time being either in cutting night shifts, cutting day centres and perhaps cutting a school, or at least cutting some hours in organized training. The centre party wants a more dignified care. We want those who need an institution space to be able to get it. We want the individual to have an impact on each and every one of them, as well as on the number of hours that they think they need, and also on the content that makes it possible for them to have resources both for medical services and for different activities, so that the individual is met with respect and dignity, and even for the staff who are to exercise these services to be able to update their knowledge of the work they are doing. But then there's an important commitment, and that's that there's consistency between tasks and means in Kommune-Noreg. Is it really that the Right does not at all worry about the missing funds? Is it also so that the Right is not entirely concerned that the number of part-time positions in Kommune-Noreg in two years has gone from 31 pst. to 42 p.m., and that there is actually a lot of spare skills out there that could provide security, care and care for the elderly with respect and dignity. There are no media!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e608	I think this is an example of a debate we're going to have a lot of of the time coming. I agree with the representative Harald T. Nesvik, who says that this is an area where ideological divisions really go. What's interesting is to discuss what kind of boundaries are to be drawn between types of services that we're going to have in Norwegian society, for which the public should be entirely responsible, both that they're coming up at all, but also that they're responsible for providing them, and what kind of services in Norwegian society are suitable for public accountability, but that it's – to say it that way – that it's hip as luck who's doing them. This is a debate of all political parties. So far I haven't heard anyone, for example. say it doesn't matter who are soldiers. So far I haven't heard any party say that it doesn't matter who are the police. The right-hand side of Norwegian society is also saying very clearly that Norwegian society must have a police force, and the police must be employed in the public sector. Police must both be responsible for and provide police services. Where, then, does the limit go when it is uninteresting who provides? Well, it is obvious that at least the right side of the Norwegian community says that in the care of the elderly and the care sector, there is no longer any need for public servants to provide services. And what are you saying at the same time? Well, what you say at the same time is that care for the elderly and the care sector in and on a case-by-case basis is suitable as a business area. Because if more than one government is going to deliver it, it's going to go into the private sector. In other words, it is suitable as a business area. At that time, we begin to discuss some concepts in relation to the care sector in Norway, making the care sector an investment property, a business area, a place to run a store. Are we going to invest in Kværner, or are we going to invest in AS Eldreorg? Where do we get the largest return? Where do we get the greatest dividends? Where's our money going best? So the right-hand side takes the clear ideological choice that it is unproblematic to say that providing services to the old and sick is a capital placement issue, while the left-hand side of Norwegian policy is fortunately saying that no, in this area it is important that the public has both responsibility and services. The problem in Norwegian elderly care is not a lack of freedom of choice, the problem is a lack of good offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e622	It is quite typical that while the Right is concerned with freedom of choice and user participation, yes, the Workers' Party is still the most concerned with maintaining the system that has existed, i.e. the public monopoly on the most important welfare services. Why should the elderly not have the right to choose when they are no longer able to cope? Is there anyone who seriously believes and believes that people will find themselves in monopoly much longer – private or public? Government and enlargement should absolutely motivate and stimulate municipalities to facilitate freedom of choice and user participation. Yes, this is really so important for the development of care services locally that the municipalities that prioritize it should have had a significant appreciation from the state. I encourage the Council of State to go even more offensively to work to contribute to real freedom of choice and user participation. Such developments will also contribute to the development of the quality of services. The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, was very concerned with the limits of liability. Perhaps it is not so important to keep up with old borders or to draw new limits on the provision of welfare. Perhaps it is most important to look for new opportunities to develop even better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e635	I want to start from something that sounds like the majority is now in agreement, that is, to get as needed. That's a good thing, and if we could start there and say that you should get as needed with care services, it's not that user choice necessarily requires outsourcing and privatisation. It is fully possible if one is serious about greater possibilities for choice and participation, that it can also be made available within a public-run system. That's where the shoe's been printing for years. And it's not just about the municipal sector, it's about the state, which hasn't been particularly good at listening to its users and its inhabitants, but which has very many times closed your ears and said that you get this, and if you're not satisfied with it, you get nothing. It is clear that there is no acceptable situation. There must be opportunities to complain; there must be opportunities within a public system to correct what is wrong and to ensure that quality is good. There must be greater opportunities for people to, for example, Complaining about a home help that comes to your home, which is not suitable for the job, or where there may be personal contradictions. It's not who you want to take in the shower, as others have said here. I am a little surprised that respect for the citizens and for the individual in relation to their need for care and care when they need it should not be at the heart of this, but that it is always under the constant desire to open up, as the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen says, new business areas, and that that is what is behind it. So I'm calling for a genuine commitment that people have to have something bigger choice, because it's clear that most of us will make more choices. We'll determine more seagoing gradually. And then it's also quite true that there are some people who in some of life's phases will not be able to make such choices. I've been sick. At the time, I was little busy looking at glossy catalogues to see which hospital was the best way to treat me. I was genuinely concerned about getting help there and then, because there were some who made a quality assurance offer for me and made sure I got it. And so we have to include that when we're discussing this. We also need to discuss whether it will contribute to a good social development that, in the different situations of life, we are invited to choose from a community instead of going in and trying to correct what is wrong here – if the user and the citizen are able to make sure you don't have to complain, you can just choose away, choose something else. And then we should kind of be satisfied with that, for example. an elderly care institution is not good enough. That's not SV. We believe that quality requirements should apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e644	I agree with many of the representatives who say that this debate is perhaps a foreplay to a very large and important debate that is about the ideological positions we have in these kinds of matters. Therefore, it is also interesting to be allowed to speak after the representative Hanssen has called for responsibility in relation to user involvement. I record again that Hanssen, who stands first in the series when it comes to criticising the users themselves for being allowed to decide what needs they have – it is of interest in itself, of course, of course – constantly pulverizes the responsibility by allowing the individual user to decide for himself. That's kind of weird. I have registered that the Right Representative, who was up here instead, was a very user-assisted supporter, which then does not show up here in the hall, at least, but we hope that the Right will also come forward in the long term. But the point is, of course, that when greater user involvement and user funding are provided, it is still the public that is to be responsible, it is still the public that is to be responsible for funding, and it is still the public that is to be responsible for ensuring a certain quality. But initially, it is the individual user himself who wants to control the quality of the offer given. If the offer does not have a satisfactory quality, then the offer will automatically fall off, because then the user will not choose that offer. That's what's good about user financing. I am also skeptical that the Workers' Party, with Bjarne Håkon Hanssen at its head, still has such a fundamental distrust of those who already today provide services to the elderly and sick, namely private and humanitarian organisations. That is what the Workers' Party is also doing with its criticism of user involvement. Another interesting point, which is continuous, and which has been there for three to four years, is that the municipal sector lacks funding to provide useful services. Yes, but with state indirect funding up against the services we're talking about, funding will be guaranteed, and then we'll drop the feedback we get from the local government that reforms are not funded by the state, then they'll be fully funded. Then it may cost a little more money, but I have registered that it is also very important for the Workers' Party that such reforms should be financed. The working party is now very proud that they have put a few hundred million more in place for the hospitals, and then it is the money that counts, and that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e655	I want to thank you for an interesting debate, a debate that unfortunately has revealed – and it was worse than I thought – that the left-hand side has not moved anything in terms of scepticism to everything that is not done in public. And I have to ask you what the right representatives of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have to ask at all questions about whether people should have the opportunity to choose. It should be a matter of course. The left side's argument reveals a frighteningly low level of respect for older people. The opponents of freedom of choice in this debate argue against freedom of choice because of a lack of offer. There is no contradiction between freedom of choice and any inadequate offer. No matter how extensive you are offered, you must be able to have freedom of choice within the range you are actually given. I get five hours of home help, I have to be able to have user choice and user involvement within the five hours, even though I would ideally have ten. Lack of provision in some places is used as an excuse for the continued unauthorized use of older people. Some say that I compare toothpaste and care services. They may not have listened to what I said, and they may not have been in the hall either when I had posts. For it was rather the opposite: I said that the care service was much more important than all the other optional opportunities we have in society. And so it's incomprehensible that we haven't come any further into user choice. I also want to ask: what is actually a private supplier? That could be so much. It need not be a national or an international group. This could be done, for example, by: This means that two nurses merge, form an AS and provide home services to older people in their neighborhood. Does it create insecurity? Is it cold and cynical market thinking, when home service user choice is about social propriety and self-respect for older people? However, I record that the left-hand side feels that it is a shame to create their own jobs by providing care to others, in Norway in 2004. It's important to remember, as also the representative Sandberg said, that we're talking here about services that are municipal responsibility. It is the public that has to pay, no matter who performs the service. But the left-hand side here today in this debate is that freedom of choice should be reserved for them with the most well-filled wallet. Freedom of choice is a good thing in itself. Someone's just talking about money. It's the left-hand side talking about money. But freedom of choice is primarily about quality. I think that the quality will be put in the high seat if we get increased user choice. If we have more service providers, they will have to compete on quality in order to attract as many potential users as possible. And then I might come to what's all, most importantly, with increased freedom of choice in the care and care services, and it's about security. Freedom of choice creates security because each individual is given control of his own situation and can plan for the future. It is the individual himself who makes the best decisions, and not governance politicians and bureaucrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e668	The debate on user choice and user involvement identifies important ideological dividing lines in Norwegian policy. The left-hand side is concerned that people shouldn't be allowed to choose, because they may not know their own best. The left, as I see it, believes that the public monopoly system is the best, and gives the impression that only public employees can be warm and thoughtful. I see that the left-hand side is concerned about change, perhaps because this may be contrary to what is there of the interests of the trade union movement. It will be wrong every time I hear representatives from the Workers' Party say that this is market and privatisation, when all we have said is that it is the public that is responsible. The government is concerned that individuals have different desires and needs. Public services just need to reflect this diversity. In fact, we believe that the vast majority of users can – and will – decide important questions in their own lives, including in relation to public services. We believe that public services actually get better if users get more influence on how they design. We know that employees in private companies or non-profit institutions can provide both good care and care. User choice and participation are about the influence of each individual and individual person on their own life and society in general, and then the individual must have a genuine freedom of choice. The government believes that the best service provision is localised, and that it is the municipalities themselves that have to assess how they want to organise the service provision, based on their knowledge of local circumstances. However, the government will support and stimulate municipalities that are just going to introduce user choices, and, as I have been in the past, there are also networks between municipalities that want to implement such reforms. The Ministry of Local Affairs has published a guide to assist in practical work, conferences of experience have been agreed, and user involvement is on the agenda of the general quality work in the care sector. When one day I need help from the public to care services, I will decide for myself who is going to come home to me. I think everyone, including the left, will have this right both to be involved and decide and to have an influence on their own lives, and I think the time has come for a more modern and user-friendly government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e679	As a result, the interpellation debate in case No. 10 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e697	I have promoted this interpellation because I experience a great deal of insecurity in the countryside as regards the future of agriculture and the settlement in the countryside, and because it is now being asked for a greater degree of predictability, and signals as to what the future will bring. Norwegian agriculture still represents a very important production of clean and safe food. In addition, agriculture is also essential for life and activity in the countryside and for the preservation of the cultural landscape. Regardless of what international influence might have to say, we cannot put ourselves in a situation where the country remains without its own agricultural production and with displaced people. In addition, we will also have the consequence that the cultural landscape is growing again and important value creation is lost. What do we have to fall back on in crisis situations? And what do we have to show our tourists when they come to our country to see living settlements and a cultural landscape held in claim? I don't think this situation is clear enough when international questions are discussed, but these are the actual conditions and part of the whole. We are already in the situation that many settlements are struggling to maintain their settlement. Important offers in the countryside are missing, and the regeneration of the cultural landscape has already begun. This situation affects everyone, but it is the worst for those young people who are going into agriculture and who are now so in doubt about the future that they may not dare to invest their future there. Lack of predictability and prospects for the future is the worst thing for the industry and those who are going to invest effort and money in jobs in this industry. Does it mean that we are going to have an industrial agriculture in Norway, to compete with countries that have completely different climatic and topographical conditions than what we have here to land? In this case, this is a dramatic error, which will both eradicate Norwegian agriculture and effectively depopulate Norwegian rural areas. No nation can be deprived of the right to own food production. I don't think it's acceptable that international agreements should be set up so that we can't take maximum advantage of our natural production of food, when we know that many millions of people on this globe lack food every day. I don't think so many people think it should be like this either. I don't think everyone understands that it's not the same starting point for the production of agricultural products everywhere, and that climatic and topographical conditions reflect how efficient production can be. Even within our own country, there are considerable differences in the possibility of farming. This means that a small use in one part of the country can be a major use in another part of the country, considering labour input and climate conditions. Nevertheless, it is of the utmost importance that we maintain an active agriculture throughout the country. I believe it would be a mistake just to think about large units without looking at the side effects and the whole thing. I often see that the farmer's skill is measured in the quantity produced, without taking into account the production conditions. I think this is going to be wrong. Farmers in Norwegian agriculture are, in my opinion, skilled and have shown a willingness to make a strong change, but I am not so sure that they have so much more to give. There is a limit to how far efficiency can be extended before there are any consequences. From the Labour Party, we believe that agriculture, forestry and fishing in parts of the country are essential for the work, housing, economic development and management of the cultural landscape. We will therefore lay the basis for a viable and sustainable agriculture throughout the country. I have a feeling that we are now experiencing a certain amount of paralysis in relation to planning the future of a living Norwegian agriculture. Pending the outcome of the current WTO negotiations, there should be more pressure to plan how Norwegian agriculture and processing businesses can continue to operate at an acceptable level and at an acceptable level. No one should believe that in the future we can have agriculture throughout the country without strong public participation. I do not think this would prevent any international agreements, either, if we set up such instruments in line with what is contained in the agreements. Of course, it means that our dealers have this as their goal. This is why I want to ask what concretely is being done by the Government in order to set up the state instruments so that agriculture, food production, the cultural landscape and living areas can be maintained and anchored in international agreements. I hope the answer and the debate will be so that in this context we can look positively at the future of our communities and the recruitment of this important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e725	I share the opinion of the inter-pellant that Norwegian agriculture is under strong pressure in the current WTO negotiations. I can assure the representative Arnesen that this is a challenge that the Government takes very seriously and that it is constantly working to ensure a negotiated outcome that we can live with. The size is previously informed of the Norwegian positions in the WTO negotiations. I should therefore not dwell on them for very long, but just a brief reminder that it is in the area of market access, i.e. in the first place on the question of cuts in customs duties and increases in tariff quotas, that the negotiations are the most difficult. We are committed to taking on significant commitments, including in this area, but at the same time import protection is absolutely fundamental to continuing active agriculture throughout the country. In these issues Norway cooperates closely with other food-importing countries, such as Japan, Switzerland and Korea, in the so-called G10 group. This cooperation is essential in order to achieve sufficient weight behind the Norwegian requirements. In other areas of negotiation, the situation is somewhat simpler. We are committed to significant cuts in trade distorting aid, but require that this can be offset by a transition to so-called green support, which includes both environmental and district aid. With regard to export subsidies, we have signalled willingness to complete liquidation, assuming that we have a balanced agreement that provides us with the most necessary in terms of market access and internal support. Let me stress that there are few or no countries that have a particular desire to hit Norway in these negotiations. In particular, we meet understanding in the WTO system of our needs and the specific challenges that characterise small-scale production under our climatic conditions. Norwegian agriculture maintains a beautiful cultural landscape, contributes to living areas and ensures a minimum of food preparedness in a country that is among the least self-sufficient in the OECD. We are importing 50 pst today. of the national calorie-based consumption. Our production is geared towards the domestic market, and we have virtually no dumping of food on the world market. Nevertheless, we are at risk of being hit hard as a result of these negotiations. This is probably due to the fact that we, as industrialised countries, are in the gap between the many key developing countries on the one hand and the United States and the EU on the other. These developing countries want large cuts in the customs duties and support systems of the developed countries. This also affects countries such as Norway, although this is primarily not the intention. Unfortunately, the paradox is that several proposals on the table actually hit countries like Norway, Japan and Switzerland the most. For the Government, it is imperative to make visible that due to difficult operating conditions, we rely on substantial support and protection to continue a viable agriculture and to pursue legitimate national objectives related to food preparedness, living settlements and the environment. The negotiations in Geneva are currently in an intensive phase. Before taking a summer holiday at the end of July, the aim is to establish a framework for further negotiations. It is of vital interest for the future of Norwegian agriculture that a good result and foreseeable international framework conditions are ensured. Negotiations could give us sufficient room for action on national policy-making. It is at home that this space for action should be used. To meet the challenges facing us, we need an offensive national strategy to ensure active agriculture across the country, as the Stortinget has stated. The government has provided a wide range of important measures in this way in the proposal on agricultural settlement, which has been submitted to the Stortinget. I would like to take this opportunity to give some examples based on the themes that the representative Arnesen mentions in his interpellation. As far as food preparation is concerned, I think it is extremely important to maintain the current level of production in the most cost-effective way possible. With increasing competition, we need a more robust agriculture. In particular, this applies to milk production, including: investment in new technologies requires use size at an average level higher than today. A number of measures are agreed by the Parties in this year’s agricultural agreement to increase the armpits of milk producers. These changes are not expected to weaken the achievement of the target in other areas. As far as the cultural landscape is concerned, our main challenge in the future is to secure the area in operation and prevent re-growth. To coordinate environmental efforts, we have established a national environmental programme that will manage nearly one third of the total budget transfers to agriculture through a pure cultural landscape grant. Furthermore, the Government attaches great importance to regionalising parts of environmental action through regional environmental programmes. It is the counties and the individual municipalities that know best where the shoe prints the most, and by means of extensive decentralisation, a local authority can choose whether regional resources should be given priority in the fight against soil erosion and water pollution, or used to strengthen active seating or other measures that can promote biodiversity and a living cultural landscape. Agriculture has been and will continue to be a bearer of the local population and the economy of many communities. However, it is a fact that employment has fallen sharply in traditional agriculture throughout the post-war period, and this is a trend that has also increased to some extent in recent years. With a limited market and increasing import pressure, it is impossible to cut costs and make production more efficient without also entailing reduced employment in traditional production. In this situation, the Government has placed great emphasis on facilitating the creation of new jobs in the countryside, including: by means of a value added programme and a simpler regulation. Agricultural value creation provides these measures with a good local anchoring. Different value creation measures have made it flourish in many communities. There has been brushed dust from old product names, we have put in place a special labelling system, and there is increasing emphasis on the development of new niche products. This is a development that has found its place within different concepts, such as farm sales and short-term food, the farmer's market, internet sales and specialised shops, as well as trial projects where high-paying purchasing groups in selected export markets are now testing Norwegian special products. Such initiatives are now linked to farm tourism and tourism, and we are beginning to see the contours of a positive economic development that can put deep and long-lasting traces in Norwegian towns. Through Agriculture Pluss, we have sought to put this creativity and innovation in focus. The government has adopted an overall approach to this problem and has looked at what legal, economic and administrative measures are needed to improve conditions so that agricultural property across the whole country is more likely to become a source of growth and innovation. I want to finish the article with these examples. As I mentioned, there will also be a broader and more thorough debate on Norwegian agricultural policy when, in a few days' time, the Stortinget will deal with the proposal for the agricultural settlement of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e753	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State, as he says, is continuously working for the best possible negotiation results, and would hardly have expected a different answer than that. A few days ago, I was in the largest agricultural municipality in northern Norway, Balsfjord, and what I heard from young farmers, some young women, who have taken over the farms, is that they are uncertain about what the future will bring. They are uncertain whether to invest dry and whether to bet dry. I am very positive about the businesses that are now growing up in the towns in connection with the value added programme and the building development funds etc. I think it's very positive. But I think if we lose the basics, the traditional agriculture, this goes wrong. I agree with the Council of State that we are already importing significant quantities of goods here into the country. But it is important that we can then continue to produce the goods we already have the opportunity to produce, and not import goods that we can produce in the country in a very good way. I think that green support, getting the funds turned over to green support, must be the way to go, but then it's important that we prepare for this before the support is gone. I don't think we have any chance of getting funds back into the budgets, if they're gone. We're going to hold the cultural landscape in claim, we agree, although I have to say that right now this looks worrying, because the cultural landscape is growing again. Then it's important that we can combine that job with continuing to produce clean and safe food. New jobs are important in the countryside as elsewhere in the country if we are to keep living and recruit young people for a vitally important industry, which has enabled us to settle in the countryside and continue to live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e768	I think the interpellant and I share a lot of the same values and beliefs about what we want to get. But then I think it's important to get there, when one is constantly concerned with uncertainty about things changing and if there's a lack of long-term perspective: if we're going to make sure that we have an agricultural policy across the country in ten years, in 15 years, in 40 years, we have to make some changes today. This means that there will be a change in the framework conditions, and it will be necessary to take care of much of this. Had we sat still today and said that now we will not make changes, now we will take care of all the instruments just as they are today, it is certainly that we came to meet a pretty tough wall when we got new framework conditions through the WTO and what it might be. That is why we are in a period of major changes in Norwegian agricultural policy than we have seen in a very long time. This is to ensure that we can take care of Norwegian agriculture also in the medium term and in the long term. And that's why the government has three important strategies, which I was in my post. The first is to do as good a job as possible in the WTO negotiations and to ensure that we have good framework conditions, not least for market access. We need tariffs in order to produce in Norway. We have to fight for that, and we do. Then we have to do something about the means we have, in order to be able to take care of as much of traditional agriculture as possible. That's why, in the proposition that is now being dealt with in the Storting, which is following the agricultural agreement in ours, we have started to greenwash schemes. 3 billion kroner or almost a third of the total arrangements we have so-called greenwashed in the sense that we can notify them to Geneva and approve them as green schemes. So that's how we make changes. This will be seen as a change in the framework conditions, but it is precisely to be able to take care of robust agriculture in the future that we are making these changes. The third is to get good alternatives. That's how every year we get a little bit richer in this country. So it's special with food that one can be saturated, and a lot of us a little bit more than saturated, and then we're not willing to spend more money on food. And when we get richer, there's a smaller share of the money going to food. This is the basic lesson of the agricultural economy. And if we are to take care of employment and activity, we need to get income from areas other than food – experiences, for example. You never get satisfied with experiences. Farming can produce experiences, not just food experiences, but definitely other experiences, which are not saturated with them. It is essential to maintain employment in rural areas related to agriculture that agriculture has a broader income than from pure food production. In a growing economy, food production will have a relatively small share of the economy. Therefore, agriculture must be allocated to new income areas. That's the third part of the strategy we're working on to take care of agriculture and living settlements all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e779	There is no doubt that the views of the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen in their interpellation occupy a great many. Agriculture and Norwegian food production will most have. Cultural landscapes and not least settlements have always been linked to Norwegian agriculture. Having agriculture all over the country doesn't make itself. And there are also some questions now whether our channelling policy is not under strong pressure. In its statement and in various press releases from the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in May, it is now said that it is working in relation to the G10 countries, especially Japan. The Minister for Agriculture said in his press release that the existing Cancun negotiating proposal was particularly unreasonable, because it was tailor-made for the interests of the United States and the EU. I hope that might indicate that there are a number of WTO member countries that see this. The same press release also stresses that the G10 Group cannot accept the establishment of a ceiling on customs duties and provides for a mandatory increase in tariff quotas. I agree with these assessments. In the agricultural settlement we are now dealing with in Stortinget, it is said: ‘The main contradiction in agricultural negotiations is now more pronounced between the US/EU on the one hand, and the group of about one. 20 developing countries [[G20]] With this background, maybe choosing the G10 countries as an ally is a good choice. But a new group has emerged, the G33 countries, which are developing countries. And the question to the Council of State on my side is whether we can experience here that there are so many groups that are being played against each other, that one can be left with the U.S./EU solutions. It may seem that the WTO process can stop, among other things. based on the fact that there are elections in the United States. My question is also: What about the uncertainty about Norwegian agriculture? It's not a good situation that we don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e804	There is no doubt that the interpellant points to an important issue in its interpellation. The questions he raises here go straight to the core of the issues related to Norwegian agricultural policy. For my part, I want to pay a tribute to the Minister of Agriculture and the Government for everything that has been done in agricultural policy since the government shift, to make Norwegian agriculture more forward-looking and robust. The right objective of the agricultural policy is to free the farmer. It shall be possible to run Norwegian agriculture economically, either by necessary structuralisation within controlled frameworks or by increased niche production. Both have been facilitated by the Council of State and the Government, while the total transfers to agriculture over the State budget have been reduced by over 1.2 billion in recent years. Even if we've had a development in the last two decades where the transfers to agriculture as a percentage of the state budget have been reduced from about 7.5 pst. to about 2 pst., progress towards a more robust Norwegian agriculture is still needed. Much has been done in recent years on the structure page. Before power-feed production, the concession limits have been adjusted up by 50 pst. In that context, the legislation was also considerably simplified by a shift from regulating the number of animals introduced to regulate the number of animals placed on the market and slaughtered, a simplification that benefits both farmers and regulatory authorities. Competition in milk processing has also been implemented and a new market organisation for milk has been introduced. There are opportunities to establish joint ventures, a system that provides added economies of scale and provides farmers with more regulated working and leisure time. The arrangements for joint ventures have also been well received. Furthermore, the law of concession for the translation of agricultural property has changed significantly, in the right direction, in our view. In addition, the focus of agricultural policy has also changed from annual work to the focus on agricultural enterprises. It is also stressed that common good, such as cultural landscapes, scattered bushings and biological shortages, should not be burdened on agriculture and that the income from food production should come from the market. By releasing the farmer in this way, we have seen that the incomes of the farmer have increased sharply in the last few years. Through Agriculture Pluss, government councils have also focused on the creativity and innovation of agricultural industries. Governments have repeatedly referred to this as stimulating the founder of the farm. All these changes have not only made it possible for the eager and forward-looking farmer to drive more freely, but the changes have also adapted us in the right direction to international agreements and requirements. Finally, I would like to say that, on behalf of the Right, we hope that the Council of State will continue to work to make Norwegian agriculture more competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e819	In order to ensure a future Norwegian agriculture with more open borders, agricultural policy needs to be transformed. Starting now, it will be possible to meet a little bit of competition by allowing a limited number of Norwegian products to be exposed to competition as a result of the WTO negotiations. It is gratifying that at least the food industry, as the interpellant also mentions, has taken the world of reality inwards. This calls for a policy to reform agriculture so that the overall objective can be slightly more than a rural policy. The industry says that it is no longer possible to live with the increased gap in price differences between Norwegian and foreign groceries. I would like to remind you that as a WTO member, Norway has accepted a continuation of the reform process initiated in the agricultural field, in line with Article 20. If Norway is perceived as a brake block through the marked emphasis on anti-trade measures in the agricultural sector, it can reduce our credibility when we demand more open trade in other areas. This could damage Norwegian interests as a whole. The agricultural production status of agriculture is that it is still over-protected in most areas through customs-based protection. The Party considers that it is necessary to adapt Norwegian agriculture to an international competitive situation faster than is currently the case. Almost all joints in the food chain are screened. It is not exactly encouraged that agriculture has developed competitiveness and market orientation. So now we have to get away from static reasoning that the farmers will continue to act as they have done up to now. Instead of subjecting agriculture to competition law, competition is restricted through market regulation at the marketing stages, regulatory export, price and market cooperation. This means that Norwegian consumers pay far more for Norwegian food under our difficult climatic and topographical conditions than is absolutely necessary. What we have to do is to introduce free competition at all stages of the food value chain, including the industry of agricultural cooperation. We need to meet the challenges of establishing internal competition, while we still have customs-based external protection. Industrious farmers can improve their survival by providing playrooms for their own development, including: by removing some production restrictions, concession limits, abolishing restrictions on the placing on the market of agricultural property, dealing with the agricultural contract system, etc., a system conditional on the use of thousands of bureaucrats. This favours and reduces competitiveness. It is no longer useful to continue all the regulations and rigorous systems in the agricultural sector that favour production. We now have to clean up, and it has to happen before import protection falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e834	That Arnesen's representative is addressing this issue, I think it's very good. Some might say that this is a topic that is addressed to the boredom of some, but I think it's a theme that the Stortinget actually has to focus on all the time, because agriculture is such an important part for large parts of Norway. As mentioned earlier, both by the Minister of Agriculture and by others, this is something we are all affected by. Food is something we consume from three to six times per. day(s) That's why there's something that should occupy us all. I believe that one of the things to focus on in the WTO negotiations and in other contexts is that Norway is created for small businesses. If you look at it in a European context, it is mostly small-scale use we have in Norway. We can never get big, it's an impossible. Apart from a few spots in the country, there is a small drift this country was created for, because the topography is once like this. That's what we need to have a policy for, how we're going to be able to exploit the little spots that are, and have agriculture all over the country. This creates special challenges that require us to have a completely different agricultural policy in Norway than what we do, for example. have in Denmark, to take one of our closest neighbours. Then I would like to comment on two points in relation to what the Minister for Agriculture was talking about. He was talking about greenwashing. I think it's very interesting that we can use more of the support that goes to agriculture today to pay for production-neutral conditions. Sick if some people say you are paid to be the janitor of the village, I don't think it's that bad. The fact that you are both the janitor of the village and produce good food, I think I must be a good stamp to wear as a farmer. We know that in addition to want good food from agriculture, more and more of us are becoming aware of how important it is that we have a cultural landscape and a country that we can be proud of, by taking care of it. The other area in which the Minister of Agriculture was involved, which I think was also interesting, concerns export subsidies. I think it is right that we are now willing to celebrate what we have had of export subsidies for many years, including. in relation to the Jarlsbergosten. I think that if we're going to be credible in terms of having a real customs protection, we have to be willing to say that we're also willing to renounce it. That is why I think it makes sense to have those positions in the WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e845	Today's theme deals with an important issue when it comes to agriculture and international developments. I am pleased to note that there is a broad political agreement behind the agricultural policy that is being pursued in Norway today. I also note that in the population there is strong support for, and recognition of, agriculture’s important place and value for the future. Ideas show that over 80 pst. feels that agriculture plays an important role and defends the support schemes put in place. Norway is a high-cost country, and it is therefore natural that we have to pay more for goods, agricultural products, service products and other things we buy in Norway than we have to pay in other countries. Everyone must have a decent income, and therefore we only have to see the natural and self-evident in it. There is a joint responsibility between the government and the farmers' organisations to find out the best way to secure agricultural security for a future that provides good income and that allows agriculture to perform its different functions in a modern society. It's especially pointing to cultural landscapes and living settlements. It is therefore gratifying to note that we have put in place environmental plans at the time of this year's agricultural policy which washes up large parts of the agricultural sector in a way that the WTO system can accept. The food industry is also undergoing transformation, and they are boosting the measures put in place to modernise and prepare agriculture for this new future. Norway has only one production of approx. 50 pst. of what we need of nutrient. It is a common task for us politicians in government and big business to try to influence the outside world, other countries, with the Norwegian positions and the need we have for specific actions. We get to visit an important politician now in a week's time. It allows us to present the Norwegian view and the Norwegian need for special arrangements. It's a mixed sympathy Norway has. First, we have a rich country, and second, we have a good country. Everyone with knowledge of the country understands that a special care is required to take care of it, not least with regard to tourism and the population, who have enjoyed busing throughout the country. Therefore, it is right that we have our own strong food production and a positive emphasis on factors that can strengthen this agricultural activity in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e859	There is reason to fear significant consequences for Norwegian agriculture in the ongoing WTO negotiations. The focus of the Minister of Agriculture and the commitment of the Minister of Agriculture to achieving the best possible outcome of the negotiations therefore need to be maintained. This is a good result of the negotiations, which will be necessary in principle to maintain an agricultural sector that is somewhat in line with what we know today. In this context, it is a difficult balancing process on the one hand to adapt to an unknown outcome of negotiations, as the interpellant advocates, and on the other hand to argue to maintain the arrangements on the basis of which we have agriculture throughout the country – under difficult natural conditions. The centre party is definitely not opposed to greening arrangements under the WTO, such as: The government has facilitated this year's agricultural negotiations. However, it will not be possible to green-wash our agricultural systems in a way that will almost maintain today's agriculture. It is also essential to maintain incentives for production in the aid schemes we have for Norwegian agriculture. It will not be possible to maintain an agricultural holding if all the arrangements in the agricultural agreement are to be greenwashed in some way. Therefore, the main focus of the Government must be to provide alliance partners among other countries in order to achieve the best possible negotiated outcome and to fight to understand that the right to produce their own food should be obvious. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this must be given more attention than taking a negotiated result for granted and starting to adapt long before it exists, in order to play away the negotiating cards that you have. It is necessary to find the necessary balance between greening the systems that make it reasonable to wash vegetables even on an independent national basis and working to achieve the best possible outcome of the negotiations in cooperation with other countries that have similar interests to ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e866	Agriculture negotiations in the WTO are far from complete. In today's situation, therefore, there is no reason to do anything but fight further for the positions we have occupied in the negotiations. At least we must not do things at home that will undermine the demands we have made in the WTO. All countries shall be entitled to own agricultural production, both for emergency and health reasons. Norway must therefore comply with the requirements necessary to ensure Norwegian agriculture. We need customs protection and the right to subsidise agricultural production in our own national market. Many countries in the world want to protect their own agriculture. So we're in good company. Norway is not a major exporter of agricultural products. We import many agricultural products that it is not natural to grow in Norway. We can therefore support many developing countries in their demand that all countries should cut export subsidies on agricultural products. In addition, we should turn imports of agricultural products from rich to poor countries. Such a policy would provide opportunities to build broad alliances internationally. Norway is a major exporter of fishery products. And we're going to work systematically to lower the customs barriers to world trade in fish. But we're not going to be tempted to sacrifice Norwegian agriculture to gain trade benefits with fish. The Norwegian district industries are not to be set up against each other, nor are we to cooperate. The market for fish will develop positively no matter what happens in the WTO negotiations. These include: major opportunities for the establishment of bilateral trade agreements to address the problems of customs barriers to fish. The pig eats its own faeces. Added middlings are known as recycled waste. This bottle is purchased by the Nordics because it is imported. We have just, not long ago, experienced that chicken is being fed with waste oil. How has this been done, Minister of Agriculture? And salmonella-free eggs – the Minister of Agriculture and the representative Hedstrom were standing here in the hall: every Northman would have his hen, then a few eggs. Yeah, he can eat the plum liquid because it's salmonella-free, is he aware of that? But he's sacrificing it on the altar of import. Kugalskap and Creutzfeldt-Jacob we have experienced, and that is a result of intensive agriculture. What happens to that mountain of bone meal that was the result of jealousy? We can talk about the value creation program, but what happens to the man who wants to do something about the value creation program, for example. the man who drives the carnage? He can travel around the country and slaughter and prepare his own meat, but he is not allowed. It does not conflict with Norwegian legislation, nor does it conflict with EU legislation, but it is refused.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e881	Interpellant sees the search light in a policy area of great importance. The agricultural sector is the main source of farming in rural areas, including rural areas. as a raw material supplier to the food industry, but is also very important for those regions which are heavily involved in tourism and tourism. I myself come from a large region of travel life in Norway and get many impressions from there about the fear of the great changes that our agriculture is facing. The fear that livestock will be greatly reduced and that the landsliders will disappear is so absolute. What will happen if the locusts grow again and shine in the houses only in Easter and in the holidays? The whole country has to be held up. In national and international negotiations, Norwegian government powers must actively work for it. For years we have imposed rules and directives on farmers far upwards. When are they going to benefit from doing the job of good animal welfare, disease-free animal breeds and minimal chemical use? Therefore, Norwegian agriculture costs a lot, but we have safe food. Many of us are wondering whether the Government, including the Minister of Agriculture, is doing enough to promote these advantages in the negotiations. When did the minister tell us what we actually spend on food in Norway, compared to other countries? Now it's 11-12 kroner of each hundred kroner, after the war it was 40 kroner – but cheaper food we're going to have! We must all join forces around Norwegian agriculture, whether we are operators or consumers. Directly and indirectly, a high game is now running: rationalization, efficiency and wholesale monopoly are the reality of the day. Import and price pressure is the farmer's everyday life. Many years have passed since Minister of Agriculture Eyeågen said that the farmer had given enough. This government lives by another template. It gives good ground for pessimism and frustration. For us in the Labour Party, it seems that Norwegian authorities are passive in discussions on the agricultural industry in international forums, and I think the matter must be put on the agenda. I demand it, even if I hear what the Minister of Agriculture says. But I thank the interpellant for his honest commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e899	It has been made through almost all the posts that have been held here tonight, an impression that one does not make money on food. I'm going to strongly reject that. The last time it was the largest shareholder in the Hakon group who sold out, a person sold out with a surplus of about. $7 billion, that's more than half what we use on all Norwegian farmers from Nordkapp to Lindesnes. So there's no doubt that there's very good money in food. The question is, how are we going to distribute them, and who is going to have these revenues? I would have preferred that part of these $7 billion had agreed to measure wages around the country and provide better income in District Norway. So we have to realize that the work done here in Stortinget is very important, and of course it has to be done in terms of agricultural policy if not so long. But if we join the WTO, we should also look at: what are the poor countries entitled to in relation to the rich countries? Yeah, they have a lot of product, and they have a lot of labour. Both parts are cheap and can compete both Norwegian farmers and Norwegian workers as nothing. There's no doubt that we're going to let them drop to here too, but in what way? Should it be with and excavate the basis that we have created for Norwegian farmers or for Norwegian workers? No, of course not. It must be done in such a way that we can at the same time maintain the employment of agriculture. That's what this is about. And we also know that for many countries in the south who are poor, it may be equally important to have market access in their own country, precisely because they compete with so-called world market prices, which are of course created by export credits again. Thus, there is no real world market price, but the world market price is based on a subsidised overproduction. For many poor countries, it is more important to be allowed to enter their own home market than to be allowed to escape, for example. in Norway. I thought there was a very good signal from the Council of State in relation to many good measures and cleaning. But my challenge to the Council of State, and what I want him to problem a little bit, is the relationship between how much one should give directly on the price, and how much one should give directly in the form of supplements, so that the farmer remains in having a professional challenge. I found, for example: ‘Landwide janitor’ is a very good expression, that there should be one part of the farmer’s role in the future, but where does the intersection between how much one can give in terms of public support and how much is to be based on professional competence, in relation to finding out the farmer’s salary?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e910	I would like to thank the Council of State and the representatives of the debate. It is a debate that I believe must be strengthened in the future. This concerns the future of Norwegian agriculture and our districts. Governments say you have to make changes. Yes, I agree, but it is not possible to change the natural conditions. This must be brought to the fore both in this House and in the negotiations that are to take place. We need to have space in international agreements for our special circumstances. But it is also a fact that we need to bring forward the advantages that we have, which have been mentioned here today, that go on a good animal health, clean food and clean nature. This is also linked to the way we have run our agriculture. I hear that some people in the debate still have the opinion that only the uses become large enough, there will also be profitability in agriculture. I don't think so, because conditions are so different. I don't think you can solve all the problems through increased competition either. Again, natural conditions apply, and not least the production of safe food. I have confidence in what the Council of State says in the debate, and I think he is doing what is possible, but I seem to hear a certain difference between what is being prejudiced by the Minister of Agriculture and what is being prejudiced by the Minister of Foreign Affairs as to what we may have the opportunity to achieve in the ongoing negotiations. I hope in this respect that the Minister for Agriculture has both his hands on the wheel in the further negotiations, and I wish the Council of State success in the important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e919	I'll start by thanking you for the last time. It's necessary. These are very major challenges we are facing. I sometimes get that question from farmers when I travel around, whether I can give them a guarantee in relation to what framework conditions they will have in 10, 15, 20 years, cf. what is happening in the WTO. There seems to be a part that thinks I should be able to do that. Should I have given such a guarantee, I could not have spoken right, because that is not possible. I too, who is working on these questions daily, are excited and uncertain about: what brings these WTO negotiations? I have to be honest with you. Then I can assure the Storting about, as I record that many people feel secure, that we are doing what we can to safeguard Norwegian interests in these WTO negotiations. I can only, for example, pointing out how the Minister for Foreign Affairs put about his entire travel programme in winter to concentrate on having bilateral talks on WTO issues and agriculture, and I am, of course, also working on these issues, even though it is the prime responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I don't want to address all the challenges to me, but I want to stress the important issues that have been raised by many, both the SV representatives and the ENOXEN, about support schemes: how much can we focus on trying to greenwash and legalize support schemes, and how much do we have to have on other schemes? It's obvious that we can't just have green arrangements and still have Norwegian agriculture close to what we have today. We are totally dependent on having that part of the so-called yellow arrangements that are customs protection. The basic agricultural economy says that it must be for a producer to receive a price to cover the variable costs and preferably a contribution to the determined costs. At the moment you step in more money through the mouth of the cow than what you get out of the udder, if I can say so, you will stop producing and just go into the mailbox and pick up green schemes, and then the cultural landscape decays. So that's the whole basic thing. Therefore, we need to ensure that we have tariffs that allow us to get a price that covers these costs. Then we can provide the farmer with finances for other tasks he had to do, so-called collective goods – gardening tasks, janitorial duties and what it might be – among others. through green arrangements. The environmental plans, which are now mandatory and introduced under this government, may be central to such schemes. Then I wonder at the representatives of the Workers' Party, because it is a bit in the air that it is not done enough by the Minister of Agriculture. Most people who observe what is happening in Norwegian agricultural policy, from the outside, say that we are in a period of major changes than in a very long time. I am pleased that it is possible to make these changes in combination with negotiated agreements three years in a row, and a period of income increase for Norwegian farmers who are historical, and percentageally twice as high as for other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e930	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. So 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e936	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting in case no. 6-9 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-07-2.ana.ud1233e996	In Case No: 10 and 11 no voting theme is available.
