ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e53	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e74	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e83	I am pleased to be the rapporteur on this matter, and I was also the case rapporteur for our predecessor, Ot.prp. No 6 and Inn. O. No 50 for 2003-2004, then the Competition Act and the EEA Competition Act. The ratio is that the Competition Act entered into force on 1 May, while the EEA Competition Act is currently not in place. The latter has a per cent share of the population. In September 2004, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, packaging and labelling of dangerous No 3 for 2004–2005, which was dealt with by Stortinget a little ago today. There are two reasons why we have the matter to deal with. Firstly, on 20 January 2004, the EU adopted a new Merger Regulation, and secondly, by the decision taken in the spring session, some minor weaknesses were mainly of a technical nature. Then this is a good time to fix these. In the light of the views of the Progress Party and the Government, only purely editorial changes, with the exception of some factual, substantive aspects, of which there is a broad consensus. An in-depth consultation on this matter has been carried out and the hearing bodies have been largely in favour of what has been put forward in the proposal. It's also been the committee when you've set it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e96	When we dealt with the Competition Act earlier this year, the Labour Party went in to postpone the examination of the legislative proposals until the proposals from the Government were further investigated. We believed and still believe that the Government on several points deviated from the wide-ranging Competition Law Committee. This makes it difficult to see the impact of some proposals. This is criticism, which includes, among other things: The NHO has been involved. Any legislative or regulatory decision and any change must initially have a clearly defined, justified need. If not, we risk undue confusion, complexity, bureaucracy, inefficiency and, in the worst case, undermining legal certainty and respect for law and rules – in this case for business. The fact that the matter again comes to consideration with changes in the content, I believe the government went too quickly in the work on the law. The content changes should result during the ordinary treatment, especially where the Government changes its attitude. I'm not going to repeat all the objections and questions we raised during the previous treatment, but I'm going to stress our primary view of competition. The Workers' Party's assessment is that not all areas are suitable for competition. This applies, for example: areas such as health, education and care. In these areas, social considerations must be overall competition and determined on the basis of policy choices. This policy governance must be maintained and developed, not reduced. Such an exemption would not be contrary to our EEA obligations. A concrete example is the principle of call for tender for service production, where there are exceptions for the health and social sectors. In the case of individual proposals, the Workers' Party supports them. The working party considers primarily that a system of general reporting obligations for corporate services is bureaucratic for both enterprises and supervision. We therefore proposed a system of notification obligations for larger concentrations and voluntary reporting obligations for the rest. We note, however, that the majority wants a general obligation to notify. When introducing such notification obligations, the Competition Surveillance Authority should be able to relax the requirements of the general notification. We support the view of the Law Association that it is not clear in the preparatory work of the law that minority services are covered by the enforcement ban. However, these members support the proposed amendment to Section 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e105	The view of the Government and the Advance Party in this matter is that the main content of the proposition is editorial or technical changes. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party agree that this is a policy as much as it is a technique. I would like to say a little bit about the policy on this matter we are dealing with today. First of all, I have to say that it is a pleasure, perhaps especially with the debate on the competition law in February this year, that we have been able to read in the media that we have got a government council that is less dogmatic in its view of competition, and more open to other points of view. I think that's good. But I record that neither the majority nor the Council of State is critical of the very concept of competition and whether competition always means economic development. Earlier this autumn, Aplan Viak has provided the Government with a report showing that increased competition in public procurement has not led to price reductions and that administrative costs for purchasers and suppliers have increased. This can be read in the Evening Post on July 3, 2004. The Council of State stated that for these reasons he was considering raising the threshold. We have taken the floor and therefore, as we did in the examination of the Competition Act, promote the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider raising the tender threshold to the maximum permitted by the EEA Agreement.’ I have, despite the fact that there are still examples of increased competition not giving the effects it was supposed to give – I could also mention the pharmacy market – registered that neither the Progress Party nor the Government wants to go further into this issue. I refer to the joint comment from the Centre Party and the SV that at the bottom of the intervention by competition authorities, whether at Norwegian or European level, there is a consensus that individual producers of a product will not dominate a market. In my opinion, the concept of ‘market’ should be better and more defined than what is being used today, both in terms of product and geographical impact. This is problematic because we see that this is important in major, concrete business policy issues. The most serious issue we've had in recent years is that the Competition Authority forces a State actor – State Power – to sell down because of its size, which in itself tells a lot about what view of the power sector is used by the Competition Authority. The most striking thing in the Statkraft case is that the Competition Authority makes an assessment of the size of the company in Norway, while from an increasing number of teams point out that it is a Nordic power market. Finally, I would like to point out to the SV's comments that in reporting on the nature of the acquisition, the intention of the acquisition should also be determined. It is the SV’s view that by cancelling the purchase intention, it is possible to stop buying where the intention is to shut down profitable businesses, or to impose penalties on whether new owners would have changed their mind in relation to the intentions they stated when they acquired an enterprise, as the previous acquisitions law had. I bring this up to the SVs and the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e126	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e129	I note that the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are critical of the need to make changes to the Competition Act and the EEA Competition Act so soon after their adoption. I just want to stress that we already made it clear at the time of adoption that there would be a need for rapid changes. This is a consequence of the adoption by the EU of a new Merger Regulation which, by incorporating into the EEA Agreement, requires amendments to Norwegian competition law. This is the main background to the legislative proposals currently under consideration. When the law had to be amended in any case, it was natural to use the opportunity to correct the technical weaknesses attached to the laws. In addition, changes are made to the rule on notification of concentrations and prohibitions on implementation of minority services. The background to changing the rules governing the general nature of the notification of concentrations is the desire to ensure that the supervision of competition is given rapid access to the information they need in order to carry out an assessment. At the same time, we ensure that the business community is not required to provide information that the Competition Authority does not need or that is already publicly available, for example. through the Brønnøsund Registers. It is an important part of my work to create a simpler everyday life for citizens and businesses that the public does not impose unnecessary burdens and reporting obligations. If the information is already publicly available, businesses shall not need to report again. Notices received by the Competition Surveillance Authority in the period after the entry into force of the Competition Act have shown that it is desirable to make changes to the content of the general notification. In order to minimise the burden of notification, we propose to allow the Competition Authority to relax the requirements for the content of the general notification. We have also proposed to abandon the automatic ban on the implementation of minority services, as there will be less need for such a ban here. With regard to the amendments to the Competition Act and to the EEA Competition Act resulting from the incorporation of the new Merger Regulation into the EU, it must be due to a misunderstanding where the members of the Socialist Left claim that the amendments result in a tightening of the rules on the control of concentrations in relation to the applicable competition law. The changes do not entail any change in the terms and conditions of intervention. The proposal for a new Section 7a of the EEA Competition Act allows the Competition Authority to join a request from one or more EU Member States to transfer a case of a concentration to the Commission for assessment. Transferring would only be relevant where a concentration could be dealt with by several national competition authorities. This provision is intended to simplify and streamline the treatment of such concentrations. With regard to the concern that access to the transfer will cause such cases to take longer, I would like to state that the time limits of the Competition Act will start to run again from the moment that the Competition Authority announces that they do not want to join a transfer. Transmission to the Commission will only be relevant in a limited number of cases, so the change does not alter the deadlines for the large number of concentrations. I would also like to make some comments on the claim that the Competition Act is based on a theory that competition, and only competition, leads to economic development. The objective of the Competition Act explicitly demonstrates that competition is an instrument for achieving the effective use of society’s resources. There is, of course, no contradiction between competition and investment in research and development, innovation, learning and development of competences, as the Socialist Left Party's representatives seem to believe. On the contrary, effective competition will provide increased incentives for focusing on just research, development and innovation. Bets in these areas are particularly important for a small country such as Norway. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the amendments proposed, in addition to those necessary to fulfil Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement, are notified. However, they are justified by the desire to have as effective competition legislation as possible for the benefit of society and consumers, while avoiding unnecessary burdens on business. Once we have introduced notification obligations for concentrations, it is important that the rules are as simple and unbureaucratic as possible, while ensuring that the supervision of competition is provided with the information necessary to assess the case within the time limits set by law. This is how we ensure healthy competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e148	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e151	I'm not going to retake the debate on the Competition Act. We took it when we evaluated it. But I want to challenge the current state council on one thing, and that is: When he got this report from Aplan Viak, he said to the evening post that for these reasons he was just considering raising the threshold. We then wonder whether the Council of State sees the possibility of doing so, and whether it is appropriate, as he expressed himself in such a way after receiving a report that clearly shows that competition in the public sector is not always in line with what the Council of Justice has said about competition in the context of the Competition Act and its review.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e156	I have taken the initiative to thoroughly review public procurement law. It has two purposes. We need to simplify in order to make legislation even clearer and make it easier for public purchasers to deal with strict, transparent legislation aimed at strengthening competition and the confidence of the public purchaser. In this context, we also assess the threshold value. However, it is also important to note that the Aplan Viak report emphasises that despite increased administrative burdens at a low threshold, the strict new procurement legislation has created a much more professional public procurement function, which imposes tougher requirements on suppliers and ensures better use of public resources. When setting the threshold, there are many considerations to consider. In particular, we should take into account the fact that Norwegian business is mainly made up of small and medium-sized enterprises. With the purchasing power of the public sector, it is very important that these enterprises have access to the large public market, and this means that the threshold, as it is in the EEA Agreement, is hardly appropriate for Norwegian conditions, even though I would like to be a follower of increasing it in relation to the current level.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e163	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 107]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e179	I would like to make a brief explanation of the main points in the Committee's position. It is a unanimous committee which endorses the amendments to Chapter 3, which proposes that the current rules on the granting of the temporary acquisition authorisation for fishing vessels in the case of inheritance should also be extended to those applicable in the event of a generation change, and then after a discretionary assessment. The extension of the temporary acquisition permit to the surviving spouse who is in the same state of residence is also positive and is also endorsed by a unanimous committee. It is also a unanimous committee that subscribes to the other proposals in the proposal, with the exception of those made in Section 9, where the majority does not wish to amend the current law, where prior approval is required for all changes in ownership. The Ministry proposes that such changes should be notified only. The majority fully share the objections raised by the Directorate of Fisheries to replacing the current rules with the obligation to notify. A notification obligation will make it more difficult to identify who is actually the owner of a fishing vessel over time, and it will also be much more difficult to impose the necessary requirements in the event of a change of ownership, requirements that will benefit both industry and management, inter alia. as regards predictability, as the Fisheries Directorate points out in its consultation opinion. In reality, the changes currently proposed, with the obligation to notify as a substitute for prior authorisation, mean a start on what can be called a severe deterioration in the current system of a fishing drift fleet. It will be easier to be a passive owner and it will be easier for the capital to buy into the fishing fleet than with the current system. That is why the majority of the committee opposes this amendment. I assume that the minority will justify its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e194	It's not so often I quote Right People to support my own position, but I thought I should make an exception today. Jan P. Syse once said – easily rewritten to Stord dialect – that what's okay does not need to be repaired. I would say that the changes proposed by the Government today in the case of changes in the ownership of the fishing fleet are unnecessary, and they will not give the improvements that are claimed, nor to say otherwise: the current arrangements are in order, and one does not need to repair them. The working party maintains the principle that, as a general rule, the fishing fleet should be owned by active fishermen. With today's change of ownership approval system, you can check that this principle is being followed up and maintained. Powers have the power to control the conditions of takeover. Replacing the reporting obligation scheme today reduces this possibility. The changes proposed by the Government here are, in my view, of a very fundamental nature. That's why I have to say that I'm very surprised that they're very happy to do this by means of a regulation change and not by changing the law. You must be allowed to ask yourself this: Do this because a regulatory change is a less extensive process, which includes: are less likely to object to hearings, etc.? A regulation change leads to less public debate than a decision to change a law. I'm also critical that one of these choices is a moving transition, that one should have a parallel code that works at the same time. The gradual introduction of a new system creates uncertain and unmanageable legislation. In my view, this change should not happen, but when one first chooses to implement it, at least in the name of democracy, it should happen in the form of a change in law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e209	On behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, I address the minority proposal included in the vote. At the same time, I would warn against drawing the ends of this relatively modest minority proposal, which gets a majority in the Chamber, which the case-rapporteur and the representative Aksen makes an effort here. The notified change proposed is in line with the practice that has existed over time: that the vast majority of people agree to their applications. This is a simplification. It avoids bureaucratic procedures and a time-consuming procedure. When we go along with this, it is well aware that the basics are still solid, namely that the law of participants and the intention in it is firm, as it has done and will continue to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e214	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e217	The case concerns an adjustment of the law and the possibility to amend it by means of regulations. The point of view of the Progress Party is that it is all the more practical to make it more practical, that inheritance and generation change can be treated in a more equal way in terms of acquisition authorisation. I would like to mention that the Committee is divided into one single point, and this concerns Section 9 new second paragraph, on changes in ownership of branded vessels. The proposal, as we have read, involves the gradual implementation of a notification system which we believe will in the long term entail simplification as well as greater predictability of the industry. We consider this to be positive. Control is the argument put forward in the field not to support the introduction of a notification scheme. Since the proposal involves a gradual introduction, we believe that all aspects, including controls, can be adequately addressed. We have chosen to have a positive starting point for this government initiative because we believe that we will in the long term have simpler rules and less bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e226	Actually, I didn't intend to take the word, just join the posts of the representatives of the Labour Party and the Center Party. But when Ivar Kristiansen says that this is above all a simplification, I'll just refer to the Fisheries Directorate's hearing statement related to the issue of ownership changes. They question whether this will be a particular resource saving for the administration, because the message will have to be controlled, and because it will take a lot of time to guide the industry. To state so categorically that this is a simplification, as the representative of Kristiansen did, I have little understanding of it. In addition, I agree with the fundamental objections that representatives from the Labour Party and the Centre Party have raised, and that the Directorate of Fisheries also participated in the hearing on this matter. They ask whether this allows the necessary checks to be carried out on the ownership of the fishing fleet. They indicate that one in the media still has discussions about real ownership in the fishing fleet, and the directorate expects that this will not improve with a notification system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e231	The main principle of the Participant Act is that the operation of fishing vessels shall be reserved for active fishermen. It is also consistent with the proposal put forward by the Government. The proposal on inheritance and generational change in Section 7 is to a large extent a clarification and legal regulation of practice, as has also been said earlier today. Vessels and concessions represent relatively high values and will be able to create problems of inheritance and generation change in experience. The new provision on generation change should therefore ensure non-discrimination and provide a good basis for planning for the future. The introduction of a notification system in Section 9 instead of the prior approval of changes in ownership composition of companies owning fishing vessels, the majority of the business committee opposes, as explained by the rapporteur. The purpose of a notification system and subsequent verification is, as several speakers have pointed out, to achieve simplification. The notification mechanism will result in administrative savings both for the administration and not least for the industry. But I record that both the Workers' Party and SV, as well as the Center Party, are against simplifying and making everyday life easier for fishermen. I think that is regrettable, but we have to take that into account. A non-problematic notice of ownership change will be considered accepted within a specified period. It appears that the change in ownership has unintended effects, such as: of course, the Fisheries Directorate shall send feedback on the loss of access or concession to the participant. So what is claimed by both the case rapporteur and the committee leader, that this will weaken the main principle of a fishing trip fleet, is not correct. A notification system will neither create unforeseeability nor complicate the current system. That's why there's a correct opinion that the minority, represented by Ivar Kristiansen and Øystein Hedstrøm, have pointed out earlier. If there is a need to treat a notification as an ordinary application, it will be made on the basis of the notification and will therefore not provide for longer or more difficult proceedings. I therefore hope that the bulk of the population will turn in line with the Committee's position. In this case, the Ministry will draw up new regulations focusing on the counter-representations expressed in the position of the Business Committee. The notification system shall not only simplify but also improve the framework conditions to which the industry must relate. In order to ensure monitoring of developments, we will gradually introduce the notification system in simple, unproblematic cases. In response to the committee leader's question, I can inform you that we have chosen the regulatory path in this case because it is not prepared to weaken the main principle of a fishing rage fleet. Therefore, legislative changes are not necessary beyond the wording of the proposal. The most comprehensive proposal in the proposal is the proposals in the new Sections 28 and 29 to introduce an infringement fee and periodic penalty payment in the event of breach of the provisions of the Participant Act, which the Government proposed as early as 14 May of this year as a consequence of the Government tightening the delivery conditions in May 2003. It turned out to be in the right direction, but we believe that we need strong instruments when and if someone is trying to break the new legislation. I am very pleased to note that the Stortinge supports the proposals and assessments made by the Ministry with regard to the new sanctions rules. This will provide fisheries authorities with good administrative sanctioning arrangements and a good tool for dealing with the legislation. In practice, the Ministry takes a serious view of all types of circumvention of the law of participants and of the provisions or conditions laid down by the law. An important tool to stop the infringements is the availability of reaction options that enable authorities to react quickly and effectively. The possibility of imposing an infringement fee and a periodic penalty payment may increase the number of reactions and thus in the long term also increase the scope of the law. In many cases the imposition of a fee would be less invasive than the withdrawal of authorisations, or penalties. The rules are practical and are designed to respond in an appropriate and effective way to the infringement. It is the Ministry's intention that administrative penalties should be applied primarily to infringements of the participant law. At the same time, it should not be forgotten that the purpose of the provisions is to prevent infringements from taking place at all. The penalties provided for must also provide for an increased preventive effect. In May 2003 new rules on conditions of supply for cod trawlers were adopted. In addition to these, I believe that an important contribution to making the delivery terms system work even better than they have done in the past is that associations can be met with appropriate reactions. The withdrawal of the concession and the acquisition permit put an effective end to the operation of the vessel, but it has the side effect of simultaneously affecting the raw material supply to the individual beneficiary. The new administrative sanctions directly affect the owners of the vessels. Failure to comply with a universal service obligation will only be possible with an infringement fee for infringements of the concession clause. Secondly, the owner of the vessel will receive a periodic penalty payment to enforce compliance with the delivery conditions. There is a breach of both concessional conditions and compliance with delivery conditions thus maintained. Then I would like to clarify that the imposition of an infringement fee and therefore a periodic penalty payment are not affected by the double penalty ban. The infringement fee is a penalty aimed at the infringement that has taken place, while the periodic penalty payment is a means of enforcing compliance. However, the objective is to correct the situation without the need for a periodic penalty payment. I believe that we have now created an opportunity to achieve a balanced solution, taking into account, on the one hand, the administrative need for effective sanctions and, on the other hand, the need to ensure legal certainty. I record that it is criticised by individual political groups that this has not been put in place in the past. I remind you that in 2003, the government tightened the delivery conditions after changing fisheries ministers and governments had not made it clear that compliance was good enough. We made proposals in May this year to Stortinget, and I am pleased that we are getting this in place today. It's not one day too early.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e259	The Participation Act establishes important principles to ensure that there is a good link between the participation in fishing and the ownership of gear and boats in fishing. There are fundamental principles for which there is every reason to fight for and call about. These main principles are a broad consensus in the Storting, and the Christian People's Party will also join in and fight for them. But this is not what is on the agenda now. When some parties blow trumpets and trumpets to get a debate going on this, I would like to remind you that it is moving the focus from important aspects of the participant law that are now being invited to make changes in Odelstinget and that the Minister for Fisheries has explained. Of course, there is disagreement about the change in the reporting obligation, Section 9, whether it involves simplification and resource saving. But it's a long way from that; to consider it somewhat different, and to advocate a debate that is based on the main principles of the law of participants. There's no basis at all for that. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, this is a simplification that will serve the industry and will ensure that fishermen, the active participants, can carry out simple business transactions without delaying and bureaucratic processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e268	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 109]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e284	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e300	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 113]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e316	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Labour Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines of reply after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e325	Ot. pp. No 50 for 2003-2004 is mainly about the work of legislating a separate system of training in Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants. The proposed scheme aims to strengthen the conditions for immigrants to take an active part in working and social life, an objective which, of course, the entire Committee shares. I assume that the individual parties give a thorough account of their comments and suggestions in their own contributions. The Committee agrees with its small dissatisfaction that until now there has been a strong growth in the scale and costs of Norwegian training and that there have been no results in terms of increased flow. The Committee is of the clear opinion that these experience needs to be taken into account when expanding and proposing new measures to get more people to complete this type of training. In this context, it is important for the Committee to point out that, at the same time, it is necessary to ensure the achievement of results that meet the requirements of the proposed legislative changes. It is reassuring that the Committee also agrees that immigrants themselves have a clear obligation to take responsibility for the implementation of this scheme. The Committee would point out that the programme is in line with the international conventions to which Norway has committed itself. Nor will the same international conventions impose any restrictions on the stepping up of this programme. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party in the Committee believe that the State must primarily include those who have clear prospects for permanent residence, in such an offer. It may not be useful to provide persons who are expected to be sent out of the country in a short time, expensive and resource-intensive training, which will obviously have to be done at the expense of those who are likely to have a long-term stay in Norway. An overall committee is pleased that, in order to promote better integration, the obligation and right to participate in Norwegian education are introduced. Nevertheless, the Committee points out that this programme alone does not achieve successful integration but that individual initiative and commitment will still be crucial for this. In this context, the Committee recognises that the educational arrangements proposed in the programme are not necessarily sufficient to provide the person with a good basic level of knowledge of Norwegian and social languages. Therefore, the person himself is required to take responsibility for the further development of his/her knowledge. While the Committee stresses the importance of everyone participating in the programme, it is clear that, in some cases, there is a need for strict requirements to be met, there is a need for derogations. The minority in the Committee, the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, are pleased that the Government has agreed to have the right and duty to 300 hours of Norwegian training, and that this can be extended to up to 3000 hours – if necessary. In this context, the same minority have considered it right to give municipalities access to language testing in order to determine the need for further education beyond the 300 hours. This minority is afraid that a further increase in the level of 300 hours of duty/right will be costly for migrant workers who have an obligation to participate but who do not receive the costs covered by the country. The Progress Party is on its own within the Committee to consider that the State should make use of simple language tests — which may be differentiated and organised on the basis of individual assumptions — as a basis for the possible examination of the application for citizenship. Such a scheme could result in increased motivation and willingness to get sufficient out of education. In the context of the application for citizenship, the Progress Party is also of the opinion that those who do not show a significant initiative and a concrete willingness to integrate into society should also not have citizenship. With regard to funding, the Committee points out – and supports – that the revised national budget presents proposals for a new financial instrument. However, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party emphasise that, in the context of the revised national budget, it should be added to a grant scheme – from earmarking to unit-price financing. I would also mention the proposals in the vote that the Progress Party has on its own or in conjunction with others. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that on page 15 of the vote under proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposal for the second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 17 shall be deleted, as it is identical to the Government's proposal in the proposition. This is supported by the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which in this case constitutes the largest fraction in the Committee. I would just like to signal that the Progress Party wants to support the Workers' Party's proposal, No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e359	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e364	It was good that the representative Sandberg said he would support our proposal, because I was going to ask for a reply. But I'm going to take a line to something else. One of the objectives of this reform is for women to have an independent right and obligation to Norwegian education. At the same time, we know that some women are refused by their husbands to participate in language teaching. Of, inter alia This is why the Workers' Party considers it appropriate to have 500 hours – and not 300 – of compulsory education. If it is not possible that women carry out only the 300 compulsory hours and then are taken out of the education of their family members. The progress section itself points out that 300 hours are not enough to learn Norwegian. How has the Progress Party intended to ensure that these women receive the necessary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e373	I would like to refer to the proposal of the Progress Party, the rapporteur – which has actually become a unanimous committee – at the bottom of page 17 of the vote, which reads: ‘In exceptional cases, the right and obligation to participate may take effect from the time when training requirements are presented. The Ministry may lay down supplementary rules on what should be considered as special cases in this respect.’;» I expect the government too to understand that in particular a number of women are in a situation where they can be put outside this type of training. I'm willing to admit that 300 hours is not enough to learn Norwegian thoroughly enough, nor to gain enough knowledge of Norwegian society. However, we also need to put some responsibility on the individual himself – and in this respect, of course, also on the spouse. It may not be that the State is fully responsible. An overall committee points out that there is a responsibility on the individual – including in this type of case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e385	In the nomination, the Progress Party concludes on the Government’s proposal to turn the grant into Norwegian training, correctly after a transitional period, into a per capita-based aid, i.e. aid per year. person receiving Norwegian training. Does the Progress Party not see that this will lead to municipalities refusing to accept people who are speechless as refugees to the municipalities, simply because the municipality will be paid exactly as much as if they were given a human being who can reasonably well Norwegian, or a person who knows very bad Norwegian, and who is perhaps illiterate? Does the Progress Party not see that we are now about to have enough reform, which is going to be underfunded, down the heads of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e390	Do not delete! When we talk about the kind of funding that we like to call unit price financing, it's important to try to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. Of course, even if you have a price, it is possible to differentiate the price of each item according to the individual's needs, for example. relative to training. We are very concerned – there is also SV in the setting, I have registered – that these funds should not compete with other tasks that the municipalities have, among other things. in the care of the elderly, school, etc. We agree that it should not be in the framework, but I understand that earring should be better. But we see that where we have earmarked funds in the municipal sector, these automatically compete with other tasks that the municipalities primarily have and have to solve, such as care for the elderly, school, health, etc. Therefore, it is important for us to get a price and a solid designation of these funds, so that they reach the individual who is going to have Norwegian education and social education, and do not compete with other tasks. At least then we will get rid of that debate in the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e397	With all due respect, unit-price financing systems are primarily about trying to figure out how much money to follow one person. Today's system is that municipalities get money as long as there is a need to provide training for these people, while the municipalities with Per Sandberg's system get a certain amount of money. And, if that's right, as Per Sandberg says, that these things are not going to compete with other needs, you might have to end the Norwegian training of people before they get up to the level that the whole Storting wants them to get up to. Doesn't Per Sandberg see that there's an inconsistency in the system he's adding up to?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e404	I understand that the representative Holmås has difficulties in understanding this type of financing, simply because it is basically far from what SV wants. The SV want to manage the funds more, by being a politician, without thinking about the needs of the municipalities. It is clear that a single price financing could be differentiated according to the needs of the municipalities and the number of people in need of this offer. Another thing: if you have equal price, it's probably going to be too high for some people who might not have that much need, and then it might be too low for others who have more needs. So the average price might be right either way, if you pick it. But you're free to choose which variation you want on that piece price. That's what Per Sandberg's model, which Heikki Holmås points out, is that we're more different from what the individual needs. Then you also meet the inner animal every single time, instead of cleaning out funds in the knowledge and the wide without need being met.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e416	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e420	The Labour Party will work for a tolerant, multicultural society and against racism. Everyone shall have the same rights, duties and opportunities, regardless of ethnic, gender, religion or sexual orientation. In other words, do your duty, demand your right. We believe that the biggest challenge for success in integration policy is to raise immigrants as a group at all levels, both social, political, economic and cultural. But we now see that that's the opposite that happens. Norwegian society is getting a class division on an ethnic basis. Large parts of the immigration population do not participate in the political system, very many work in low-paid jobs, and the unemployment rate among immigrants is three times as high as elsewhere. These are strong signs that we are developing an A and a B community. A prerequisite for creating a future in Norway is to learn the language, learn Norwegian. It is crucial for successful integration that everyone can speak Norwegian. Language control is the key to inclusion and participation. There's no doubt about it. That's why it's so important. The Labour Party believes that we need to organise language teaching for the individual. Norwegian training must be compulsory, a right and an obligation, and be carried out immediately after arrival in Norway. Therefore, it is wrong not to start with Norwegian training already in the receptions, as the Government and the Progress Party agree. The working party will reintroduce Norwegian training in receptions for those likely to stay here in the country and have entered it in the 2005 budget. The Working Party, SV and the Center Party believe that in very many cases a 300-hour framework, as the Government and the Advance Party agree, will not be sufficient to reach a functional level. This was also pointed out by so saying all the hearing bodies. The majority consider it necessary to maintain the current 500-hour framework. We are amazed that the Progress Party does not support this after the high profile this party has held for many years in comparison with everyone learning Norwegian. Today, the largest immigrant group is through family reunification and is thus not covered by the mandatory introduction programme. Therefore, a right and obligation to Norwegian education and social knowledge, as Ot.prp. No 50 deals, important. In the budget for next year, we can read that 30,000 will be covered by a right and an obligation to Norwegian education until next year. The working party believes that a right to language training must also involve some obligations. And it must have some consequences for the individual if the language training is not conducted as intended. The fact that several countries practise language courses as a prerequisite for permanent residence permits and citizenship is known. The Labour Party agrees and supports the use of such sanctions. But we believe that the proposals in the proposition are not sufficient. The Labour Party therefore wants a more concrete and practical approach, which can complement the longer-term instruments of residence permits and citizenship. We consider it reasonable that when people do not meet the mandatory language instruction, there must be economic consequences. Education costs. For the next year, there are 1.2 billion dollars in the budget. When Norwegian society spends so much resources on language training, it is not unreasonable for it to have direct consequences for individuals who have invalid absences. This can be done in different ways. The Workers' Party therefore asks the Government to investigate different models. But we don't get a majority for that. The Progress Party has now signalled that they will support this proposal, but it is still a long way to get a majority here today. I'm sorry. Many who have lived here for a long time still lack Norwegian knowledge. If it's due to a lack of sanctions, don't know. But it shows that long stay in the country unfortunately does not automatically make it good language control and understanding in all groups. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that the law must contain a provision that provides for the opening of exemptions for some groups. This will largely be the responsibility of caregivers. We ask the Government to give some regulations to supplementary rules on what should be such specific cases. It's not about making a big one, at the opening for everyone to get an exception, but in some cases we think it's absolutely necessary. We also believe that the transfers to the municipalities in order to carry out a right and an obligation to Norwegian training still have to be in the form of an earmarked grant. It is important that we now do not take any action here in this room that weakens the initiative of municipalities to get good training and that immigrants learn Norwegian. I take up the proposals No. 3 and 4 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e446	The representative Signe Eye has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e451	Knowing the language and being able to use it is essential for integration. The public has responsibility, but the Right believes that it is in fact the immigrant himself who has a personal and individual responsibility for this. Here's a nuance out there and I'm going to go over it a little bit. The Labour Party notes that they believe that ‘immigrants themselves also have a responsibility for integration and participation’. Then I ask, why is this emergency unit in relation to stating that it is a single person who has a great personal responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e458	It is such that this requirement for immigrants must be both – and. It is very important that the big community facilitates the learning of Norwegian immigrants. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that it is not a matter of first and foremost, but that immigrants should also have a clear responsibility. I also believe that we add up to that throughout the setting, among other things. in the case of more stringent penalties than the Government imposes, and in the case of an earmarked grant outside the municipalities, so that the municipalities may not have any reason to cut off the offer now to be made by immigrants due to very poor local economy. So it's not a question of first and foremost, but it's a question of both – and, of course, the immigrants themselves have a big responsibility for learning Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e469	It's kind of fun to listen to the Workers' Party now. Over many years, the Progress Party has been criticised for focusing on requiring Norwegian training of immigrants and demanding community training of immigrants. And now we've got it like this in two to three years. The Progress Party has been put through, and we are now being criticized for not going far enough in terms of the state demanding more of the immigrants. It's -- in a way -- stigmatizing a group. It's like saying they don't have any responsibility; this responsibility takes the state, so just take it easy! And in terms of penalties or carrots, you can say what you want about it, but the Workers' Party is calling for the Progress Party's demands in this context, and the setting is full of sanctions – and carrots. But in the big area, where one actually requires a test to get Norwegian citizenship, where the Workers' Party fails. And it should have been of great interest to the Workers' Party to follow the Progress Party on that proposal, if it was such that one felt something about the individual immigrant being obliged to learn Norwegian and to learn about Norwegian social conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e474	The progress of the game is a bit big in the game sometimes. This has also been in relation to the fact that they have gone very high in Norwegian training for immigrants. But this costs money, and when you come to the budgetary procedure and you have to give money, it's not the will that much longer. That is why I believe that the Progress Party in this position has not done what they have promised for quite a number of years. When it comes to tests for citizenship, Norway is accepting very many immigrants who also come from developing countries, where they have not gone to school at all. Therefore, it is not easy to complete Norwegian training, so you can get a test. It would mean – with the proposals of the Progress Party – that someone was not allowed to be here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e481	The Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party agreed on a number of measures relating to the enlargement of the EEA area on 1 May this year. One of the main reasons for this was that we were committed to combating social dumping. In particular, the Labour Party and the Centre saw a number of needs for the trade union movement to step in and organise workers from the new EEA countries. There are about 20,000 people who are going to apply for an EEA residence permit this year – most of them seasonal workers, but let us say that between 5,000 and 7,000 people will apply for an EEA residence permit. That means they can live here, but they don't get Norwegian training. If they are to be organised by the trade union movement, the best way to avoid social dumping is to give them the opportunity to learn Norwegian. Why will not Signe Øye and the Workers' Party provide free Norwegian training for these workers so that they can participate in the fight against social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e488	The Labour Party has agreed to work immigration, no to social dumping. This does not mean, however, that we have said that workers from the EEA region should receive free Norwegian training. We must also be able to demand something from the employers who are to hire these employees. We believe that this task must be left to the employers who need these employees. We therefore oppose having the same free Norwegian training rights as non-EEA citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e493	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e496	The ability to use the language in writing and orally is one of the key prerequisites for participating and positioning in society. Right, like the Government, the starting point is that it is the individual immigrant himself who is responsible for taking an active part in society. But, of course, society needs, in its own right, to facilitate this in fact. There is a relationship of dependence between two parties, society and immigrants, but the primary responsibility must lie with individual immigrants. With this bill on the right and obligation to Norwegian education that we are discussing today, we believe that the chances of participating and finding a good place in the Norwegian community will be considerably improved. Both government and population have taken on board integration policies. With effect from 1 September of this year, all municipalities are required to provide new arrivals and to immigrate an individually organised introduction programme. Within two years, participants shall learn Norwegian and social knowledge and receive vocational training, possibly other training. The current proposal for Norwegian training rights and obligations shall capture those outside the introduction programme. The offer in today's proposal is 300 hours of instruction, of which 250 hours is for Norwegian training and 50 hours for community knowledge. In addition, it shall be possible, according to individual needs, to extend a total of 3000 hours. I am sure that with this, we are doing very well to facilitate much better integration into Norwegian society than the practices we have had today. Education is free of charge, with the exception of individual groups. It must be reasonable to assume that migrant workers and their families themselves take responsibility for participating and including themselves in society, even in relation to learning the language. Nor are employers much required to take responsibility for this and to facilitate it. EEA citizens are also excluded, but it is subject to criteria laid down in EEA legislation. Then there have been discussions and different opinions on penalties and claims. In the introduction scheme, there is financial penalties for those who do not participate fully, so it has the individual municipal authority to join. When it comes to Norwegian education rights and obligations, we are talking here about a completely different group from those involved in the introduction scheme. The assumption is that you should not be granted a citizenship or a residence permit until you have participated in the 300 hours. Here's the requirement. There is also an additional possibility, the municipalities actually have the opportunity to go in and look at sanctions in relation to individuals by means of the Social Services Act. We believe it is sufficient, and are somewhat surprised that the Workers' Party makes financial demands for these weak groups. For us, targeting and follow-up are important in this. We are pleased that municipalities are now going to have a system where they are going to register participants in Norwegian training, and where there is to be order in terms of absenteeism rules and leave. This is after the proposal up to the Government to lay down regulations. So there's going to be opportunities for a very clear follow-up at the municipal level. So I want to say a little bit about the age limit. In the proposal, there is an obligation to participate for those aged 16 to 55. They up to 55 years have an obligation to participate, but one actually has a right to participate until you're 67, which is the same thing as our retirement age. So the committee has gone a step further, and says that in some cases we actually want to open up the possibility of Norwegian training to people over 67 years of age. It is in one of the proposals submitted by the Committee that the Government should provide for this possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e523	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e527	Unlike the Labour Party, the Right does not propose direct financial sanctions against persons who do not follow its obligation to participate in the training. So the Labour Party thinks we're going to apply economic sanctions as well. The right proposal for sanctions is far ahead of time and will not necessarily have the desired effect in the short term. It must be reasonable that even spouses who live here must take their share of the responsibility if the spouse comes through the family reunion. Can the representative, Holmberg, elaborate on how they intend to deal with the cases where the spouse has an open interest in preventing the spouse from being granted residence permits, and therefore refuses to participate in language training?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e534	The right has confidence in individuals, but we also give individuals great responsibility. That is also why we say quite clearly in this case that the greatest responsibility for Norwegian training lies with the individual person himself. We don't see that the economic sanctions that the opposition wants are necessary. This affects weaker groups. The working party also has a proposal that the number of hours should be increased to 500. This also exacerbates the economic situation for those who have to pay Norwegian training themselves, and I think about the immigrants. This has not been taken into account by the Workers' Party in relation to this group. We also refer to the Social Services Act. It has not taken the opposition into account at all. Today, the municipality has the full possibility of entering into the Social Services Act and making adjustments in relation to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e543	The Right Party and the Christian People's Party, together with the Advance Party, are making some headway towards a new financing arrangement: a single price. We have already heard in the course of the debate that some people are critical of it, and we fear that the local government sector may get into trouble with that kind of funding mechanism. I would like to challenge the representative Holmberg in relation to this. As I said in a previous line round here, it is fully possible to differentiate and guarantee full financing of these schemes through a single price. It is important for the Progress Party that municipalities not be financially affected by a financing scheme, but that the Stortinget fully provides for a system that is fully financed by the local government sector. My challenge to the representative Holmberg is: when we stand together here, there are also opportunities for us to find a solution where we guarantee 100 pst. to finance the tasks assigned to them by Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e552	It must be an objective that municipalities should be reimbursed according to the decisions taken by the Storting. We have all too often seen that the Storting adopts reforms that are not fully financed. That must be a clear objective. With regard to the new financial instrument, we will come back to it in the context of the revision, and then we will have to take a final position. As far as I can see, the unit price is a scheme that the Government also proposes. We will have to take the debate when we come to the review, but I am quite sure that we have a fairly common view of the financial instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e559	I never believe that representatives from the government parties have done anything but stand here and say that they have a goal of getting their expenses covered by municipalities, each time we have implemented reforms. The fact is that very often that's not what happens. This has been sold as a difficult reform to strengthen and lift Norwegian training around the municipalities. Obviously, giving a right is one of the things that actually contribute to it. But if you look a little bit behind the numbers, that's how we're going to weaken the starting point of 850 hours, which is what you can get today. Now you get to 300 hours, while changing the whole funding system by switching from a system where you give the municipalities for the time they teach, to just giving a sum per. head. I would assume that Kari Lise Holmberg, as a former rapporteur, is very concerned about getting systems to actually cover the expenses you have. Does not Kari Lise Holmberg see that this can lead to that there will be carrots for municipalities to provide less training, and that many immigrants thus come out worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e568	I do not share SV's commitment to state detailing the municipalities because they do not trust that the municipalities have intentions to do the best on the basis of both the right and the obligation to Norwegian education. I have such great faith in the municipalities. But I agree that what we are imposing here on the state, we are going to do in a good way, so that the finances are also proportionate. The scheme now presented, with 300 hours plus individual needs up to 3,000 hours, must be a very good one. And with that target alignment and with the system we are now introducing in relation to following up at the municipal level, I'm pretty sure that this must be a good basis for the municipalities to now be able to create a fine platform in relation to integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e573	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e576	The most important thing for immigrants to learn Norwegian is that they receive Norwegian training adapted to the individual and of good quality. It's essential. The main challenge of reforming our entire approach to Norwegian training in relation to law and duty is only partially affected here in this odelstingsproposition, namely how the entire Norwegian training system will be designed. And then we have a way to go, but this is not the municipal minister's responsibility first and foremost, it's up to the Minister of Education to put this up. But I'm saying that's the whole starting point. If we are unable to provide good Norwegian training, we cannot expect people to feel motivated to attend Norwegian training, nor can we expect people to learn anything in particular. Nevertheless, we believe that we need to introduce as a guiding obligation that, in order to live in Norway, people should learn Norwegian. We've just done that for a couple of reasons. One reason why this is important is that being able to participate in the Norwegian social debate is absolutely fundamental in order to be able to be informed in society, in order to be able to participate in the labour market on an equal footing with others, in order to avoid being exploited and to avoid becoming a victim of social dumping, as people of foreign origin are more often in a risk zone to experience. The second is that by saying that you have an obligation to do this, and combining it with a right for everyone to a proper Norwegian education, each immigrant, regardless of what kind of situation he is in, gives an opportunity to learn Norwegian. It is essential to be able to provide Norwegian information in Norway. This is the responsibility of the individual. But it is impossible to give individual responsibility for learning Norwegian if we do not at the same time facilitate it by the public. Very few in this country had received nine years of primary education if the government had not arranged for nine years of primary education to take place. That is why we believe it is very important to say that this is a shared responsibility, where the public has a responsibility and the individual has a responsibility. This is reflected in the fact that, for example: We in the opposition propose that there should be free child care for women — and also for men — during the period of participation in language training. This is also absolutely fundamental. If we can't get this done by the municipalities, if we don't really facilitate Norwegian training, then it's going to be talking about everyone participating, big words without proper content. We believe from the opposition that you should be entitled to 500 hours. We believe that it should not be focused primarily on hours, but on reaching a certain level of quality. And we think that now we give the right to 300 hours, but at the same time give the municipalities a duty, is too weak for the individual when this is combined with a piece of price financing system, as you do. The single-price financing system must be debated at a later stage. But if we have a single-price financing system that is going to follow some kind of average based on the idea that this is going to go up in sum, as the Progress Party suggested, there's no doubt that the municipalities that have to provide 3,000 hours of training for a human being will not get paid for this initially. That's the way it's going to be. Then you can turn it around, but that's the whole point of price financing, and we see that very well in the health sector today. The weakening of hours that happens when you put this down to 300 hours, lacks, as we see it, professional justification in the proposition. There are no professionally good arguments to establish that the hour is going to be 300. This leads to a argument that the duty should not be any more – well, here you disagree. But if you wanted to set a lower number of hours for duty than for justice, you could have done a few simple steps in the proposition. The government has chosen not to do so. In addition, in SV we believe that it is essential to extend the group covered here. We believe that EEA citizens should be involved. We believe – and it is a majority who believe – that it should be possible to make it possible for more people to receive this training: people up to 67 years of age, women and young people. We have therefore proposed an evaluation of this scheme once it has worked for five years, let's say in 2010, so that we can get an assessment of whether this framework is too tight, or whether it should be extended. Then I'll take up our suggestions that we have either alone or with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e593	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e598	I must say that it is almost fun to listen to the representative Holmås from SV. He says something like it's fundamentally important that people learn Norwegian to work in Norwegian society. Furthermore, the representative Holmås says that it is very important that an obligation be imposed on these people to learn Norwegian. As if SV could have had the same attitude in 1996, 1993, 1987 and 1982, when SV was actually the largest opponent and opponent of that type of obligation to learn Norwegian, and fundamentally disagreed that people had to learn Norwegian in order to function in Norwegian society. So my question to SV is: what has changed the SV's perception of these questions in the last five to six years, and which means that SV now almost repeats correctly what the Progress Party has said in a number of debates earlier on the introduction of compulsory Norwegian and community training for immigrants in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e607	I may not think that the representative Sandberg must hold me responsible for what was said in 1982. It's getting a little bit too violent. But I think it's right to say that from 1999, the last time we dealt with this, when it was a unanimous growth that went in order to introduce a right and an obligation to Norwegian education, this has been something the whole Stortinget has been involved in. It is true that the Progress Party said this as far back as 1982. The progress party also said a lot of other things back in 1982. But in relation to this matter, we all agree today. It's kind of just to admit that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e615	I noticed that SV also said in this case that it should not be a competitive outsourcing of Norwegian training. We know that it's also different than the traditional school that wants to get into this field. We also know that there is a need for greater flexibility and other frameworks in relation to providing opportunities for Norwegian training for immigrants. Among other things, computer programs have been very successful. I'm used to the Workers' Party dealing with what LO says. Is it now also such that SV follows the trade unions and therefore does not dare to open up any competition in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e622	Now it is not exactly that SV has burned after implementing the outsourcing of training and then LO has suddenly begun to discuss this with us. The basic principle is that this applies to basic education. It is also the case that individual municipalities will need to maintain and meet the obligation to provide training beyond a certain level. We believe, then, that basic services in each municipality, such as initial training and health and care services, are things for which public authorities have such a deep responsibility and which are so closely linked to the basic tasks they give in all sorts of other areas, that it is necessary for this to be done as a public service. This is also our starting point in relation to Norwegian training.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e629	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e632	The Introduction Act is one of the most important and most positive steps taken when it relates to the possibility of integration and participation in the Norwegian community. The reason for this is that the law focuses on both rights and obligations. I have to say that it is very satisfying to stand here today. I think it must be ten years since I was in favour of asking for such a system that we are introducing today, and it was then met with great resistance and many newspaper reviews. I think that Bergen's magazine had a whole page about me, where it said that I was called up on the carpet. The reliable thing about newspaper lookups at the time was no better than today. But a requirement that time was unheard of and racist, today all are a few. In some areas, we can see that the world has moved forward. Having rights is not enough, and having duties is not always enough, but the combination of rights and duties we believe is the key to learning Norwegian, to learning Norwegian society, which is very important, and to participating in work training and training where necessary. Having this basic knowledge is a commitment to participation and position in society, and it forms the basis for becoming self-sufficient through work, which is positive both for individuals and not least for society. The goal of the government must be to quickly build all refugees who will be suspended in Norway. Similarly, it is important to facilitate rapid transition to the labour market and increase social participation. But integration is a two-way process, so integration cannot be successful through legislation or the organisation of government alone. Equally important, perhaps as important, are individual initiatives and engagements of immigrants themselves. Only then can we have a holistic and successful integration. There has been a strong increase in the amount of Norwegian training and costs in recent years. At the same time, penetration has been very low. That, of course, is not satisfactory. I have had many telephones from quite desperate Norwegian teachers who suddenly don't have elephants. They have started with an entire class and have less than half a class when they end – and sometimes none. Therefore, it is necessary to take new steps to get more people to complete the training. This has been true for both women and men, according to the phones I have had, so there are not entirely stigmatized groups this is the case. This bill provides a better possibility for completion. We are some with the Government in that the government will primarily give people who have clear prospects for lasting suspension, opportunities to participate in the introduction program. It is in our opinion to concentrate available resources on those who will need this in the integration process, while at the same time not giving false hopes to those who have less, or maybe we should say minimal, prospects for a lasting uprising in the country. The Christian People's Party agrees that 300 hours of Norwegian training should be given free of charge, but that one can receive up to 3000 hours if deemed necessary. To ensure implementation before too much time has passed, we believe it is right to set a deadline for implementation. Those participating in Norwegian training will have very different backgrounds and different backgrounds for learning. Therefore, the training must be adapted to the individual. But we don't think it would be right to demand a final certificate in order to have the right of residence or Norwegian citizenship, as the Progress Party suggests. We understand the motivation for the proposal, I would stress that, but we believe that it will be possible to exclude people in an untimely way. We therefore insist that participation in Norwegian training should be the requirement for Norwegian citizenship to be granted. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government – no surprise, I would say – that the Norwegian training supplement scheme should be revised and adapted to a new training system. We have noticed that the Government will come back to funding in the revised national budget for 2005. In a situation where municipalities face major financial challenges, we would stress that a new grant scheme must be organised in such a way that funding does not compete with other basic welfare services in the municipality. It is important for welfare provision, but it is also important to ensure a rapid and good settlement of all refugees who have been displaced in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e661	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e664	The representative Apelthun Seele said that integration is a two-way process. The Labour Party fully agrees. We believe, of course, that we should make demands on the immigrants themselves, but we also believe that Norwegian society has a responsibility to organise so that integration is actually possible. It is therefore surprising that the Workers' Party records that the Christian People's Party in this matter seems to be approaching the fundamental starting point of the Advance Party, where all responsibility is shifted to the individual immigrants. Among other things, the Christian People's Party has joined a note that: ‘Norwegian integration policies have been inadequate due to: non-removal of refugees’; My question to the representative Säle will be: Why does the Christian People's Party believe that the refugee himself must bear the full responsibility that Norwegian integration policy has been deficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e682	I am pleased that the Labour Party is now involved in highlighting both rights and obligations. It is totally misunderstood if someone in this room would think we would put the whole responsibility on the immigrant. On the contrary, there is a free 300-hour supply to individuals from society. It is a good offer, and we demand that it be a good and appropriate offer for the individual. It is clear that it will help to give immigrants the opportunity to complete their duties. I do not understand that it should be understood that we put all the responsibility on the individual. But then I have to say that we have no possibility of integrating someone who will not integrate. That is why the primary responsibility lies with the individual. Society cannot say: You have to integrate! – and so believe that we are happy that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e694	At the same time, it's to say to Anita Apelthun Seal that it's equivalent to the other way. If an immigrant comes and says, "I want to be integrated!" I want to participate! I want to learn Norwegian! – and there is nothing at all to facilitate this, it is completely impossible to implement. That is why the broad majority of the committee says that this is clearly a responsibility which must be shared and which is quite natural. So over to one of the things that I've never understood about the Christian People's Party's policy after they got into government, and that's that they mean -- it was even said by the last speaker here now -- that you shouldn't give Norwegian training to people who have a very small chance of getting to stay in Norway and to settle in Norway. Then we talk about asylum seekers who are in reception. After the change agreed with the whole Storting, which meant that a separate procedure was in place for the people who were not expected to have reasoned applications, the proportion of those who are allowed to stay has increased. It was wanted, and it was wild. When the proportion rises, why won't Anita Apelthun Selle introduce Norwegian education, so that people are well on their way out to society when they get to stay?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e701	When an immigrant says: I want to integrate! – yes, then he has a real chance of happiness. Not least in Norwegian society, he has a real chance of happiness. In fact, I think that most people who have that attitude will be happy. And we're going to fix it! I see this case as the very idea that society should facilitate, not least for those who say that they will succeed. Then we have some sanctions or some demands on those who may not be so eager, and this is new and better than what has been before. So to the asylum seekers who are in reception and who are not receiving Norwegian training. Clearly, this has been a difficult matter for the Christian People's Party and a difficult matter for the Government. At the same time, Norwegian is a very small language area. It is clear that asylum seekers must be activated when they are in reception. That they should sit for a short time in reception without a clarification, is also clear, and that time we've been trying to bring down. If a person is received for too long and does not receive Norwegian training, but is still going to be in Norwegian society, it is clear that we have made a mistake in relation to that individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e714	Let me first comment on the representative Eye, who claims that the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right place all responsibility on the individual immigrant. It's like interpreting what's in the setting, as a certain man reads the Bible. What we're saying is, first of all, the immigrant is responsible for learning Norwegian. Then to the representative Apelthun Seele. I listened to her post, and I understood it so that the representative Apelthun Seele understood the motives of the Advance Party and the intention with proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox But then the representative Apelthun Selle says that the Christian People's Party cannot vote for it, because it will exclude someone from getting Norwegian citizenship. My challenge to Apelthun Seele's representative is: Where in the comments or in the proposal does it say that someone should be excluded, even if one should go up to a separate test in Norwegian or demonstrate sufficient knowledge in Norwegian? Such tests may be differentiated and based on the individual individual’s competence at the moment you pass a test.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e724	The President would just like to remind the representative, Mr Sandberg, that the line has to be made clear to the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e727	Yes, it's okay that one emphasizes what I've said. And on one point, we were some. Well, we understand the intention, because we understand that there may be people who abuse their rights, where one might need some sanctions. We also understand that one can demand that most should be able to achieve a certain minimum once they have completed 300 hours of Norwegian training, and not least if they have received 3,000 hours. At the same time, I want to say, I don't learn other languages as soon as I did when I was very young. And there are people who may not have the ability to fill the criteria, who must be on a certain level if you're going to go out to everyone with them. Whether or not to differentiate the criteria, I don't get it. The conclusion is that we stand firm for what we have meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e736	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e739	Five years have probably passed since Bondevik I, where the focus is. the over-representation of unemployment among non-Western immigrants, focusing on the need for enhanced integration. A selection was alerted to evaluate a separate introduction grant, and there was also an additional social welfare scheme for people who had bid too short in Norway that they had lit up full dishes according to the people's protection laws. Today, when we decide on the introduction laws, and when we decide on an additional social welfare scheme after Christmas, this is part of telling us that things take time. When it comes to introductory programmes, there have already been some preliminary decisions by the Stortinge. I believe that all those who have been away with integration issues are agreed that language training, Norwegian training, is an important piece, and indeed an important element for faster inclusion and integration. From the centre party's side, we are therefore surprised to see that the government is able to reduce the number of hours compared to what the government party has previously stood for. We are also surprised that the government party did well to exclude someone who has had Norwegian training until now. When the Stortinge adopted the introduction law in 2003, it was stressed that all those who had family ties with one who had been suspended on a humanitarian basis should be included in the mandatory introduction programme. From the centre party's side, I just have to say that it is completely incomprehensible for us to sort out people here who have been asylumed, who have been suspended because of the need for protection, and people who have been suspended on humanitarian grounds – unless one wants to save money. We think this is an investment for savings in other areas. Secondly, we are deeply dissenting in the tightening up that the Government has led when it comes to Norwegian training in asylum recipients. With that, I would say, commending the efforts of the Government in relation to people with open groundless asylum applications, one would believe that those who are now in receipt have greater reason to hope for a break in this country. The more important it is that they start Norwegian training. Nevertheless, Norwegian is important both as an activity and as a common means of communication across different mother tongues. Then I would like to pay attention to the privacy proposed in the sixth paragraph of Section 17, which emphasizes that the Department can provide additional rules on what is to be considered as a special case, i.e. where a rule is waived when it comes to age and other circumstances. In the Central Party, we have a sense of the principle that they have in Sweden when it comes to Swedish training, that as long as a person shows progress and is motivated, he should be trained. We believe that it is a good investment to secure wider participation, cf. page 10 in the configuration, relative to what the Government proposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e760	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e763	There is only one thing in this case that we and the Central Party disagree on, and it is precisely the view whether EEA citizens will receive Norwegian training or not. Then my question to Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa is simply: In relation to EEA citizens, is it such that we can expect the Centre Party to be in favour of Norwegian training for EEA citizens? Otherwise, the Centre Party is very concerned about Norwegian culture, and the language is an important part of culture. Norway is a small country with a small language, and with a lot of money. Why is it that the Center Party does not storm into squares and fight to allow those people who want to live here from other EEA countries to learn Norwegian if they want to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e768	I'm a little surprised at the production. It sounds as if the Center Party here would deny Norwegian education to people from other EEA countries who come and bust themselves in Norway. It's by no means the case. On the contrary, we are behind an extension of the right to free Norwegian training in relation to what the Government proposes. In addition, of course, we would like to see as many people as possible participate in Norwegian education. We argue for that, but we don't think it's unreasonable when people come here to seek work – even people who sometimes get engaged to get here – that they themselves, the employers, the municipalities or all three together, provide for the economy in such a way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e773	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e776	I am pleased that we are today embarking on a major and important reform of overall integration work. It is part of several reforms that are being carried out, and we are pleased that we are doing so with broad consensus. It almost sounds as if there was a disagreement on the matter, especially in the debate, but if you go into the vote, the main principles and what is adopted today are wide-ranging. It's true that it's been since 2001, when the big line break came. What we are adopting today is completely identical to a proposal that the then party leader in the Right, Jan Petersen, addressed in a speech at the Højres national meeting in 1996 and that brought general bulwarks from all the better-witnesses, linked to integration policy. There were editorials about it, and there were also representatives in this room, from different parties, who are going to vote for it today, who thought this was completely unreasonable. Of course, we can draw all our rounds about when and where and what, but there is something to see that there has actually been climate change in relation to integration policy, where we are now more concerned with ensuring that everyone participates in our society, and that also means that we impose some more duties. This is part of a major reform. This is because we have now implemented something we have worked a lot with, and got a registration system. A whole new curriculum is being created. New teaching materials have been developed over a long period of time. We have this law here that goes into the legal right and duty of training in Norwegian and social knowledge. And then we've been concerned that through the funding system that municipalities have for this, we should stimulate good learning in an area that needs to be more custom-made than it is today. Today's form of funding means that you get a refund for class hours. Reimbursement, money, based on class hours, is a system that has given us Norwegian training with poor results and poor throughput. There is a lot of use in some groups, such as employment, and there is no record of progress at all among the groups. We're trying another form of funding in the future. It is not a single-price financing, but it is one per capita grant, which can of course be adjusted in relation to whether there are persons in the A or B cycle, whether they have 850-hour entitlement or 3000-hour entitlement. It is fully possible to adjust within this system. These include: to give freedom to create good and better solutions related to the teaching systems themselves. When we believe that there are also actors other than the municipalities who can contribute, it is because people who are in full employment should also have this duty. They may have to have an offer that is individually adapted to their lives, where it may be letter courses combined with weekend conversation groups. The same customization of individuals that is needed for everyone else in adulthood should also apply in this, and then we have to have a creative grasp of what kind of learning forms it should be. It's important to stress that when we set this requirement of 300 hours, it doesn't mean that there is less opportunity for others to get other types of education. It's like there's 850 hours for those who are on an A-course, and 3,000 hours for those who are on a B-course, in relation to previous education. It will still be. So it's not going to change in relation to today's system. And of course, you can wonder that the municipalities might not spend money on this or other areas, but there's no change in what you can get. The change is in what you have the right to, and what you have the obligation to. So we're going to put this requirement on top of all those who are going to have permanent residence permits in Norway if they're under 55. This means that it has also been important for the Government to try to find a balanced point in the number of hours. We've thought that 300 hours is enough, because this is a requirement to be made both for those who need a lot of training, and for those who need less training, who may be in full-time employment and are already integrated. The newly-trained American nurse gets this requirement at the same level as the one that never went to school and that comes from another country. That's also why we've chosen the kind of penalties we've chosen here. We've chosen them in relation to the rights we're going to grant. We have a strong sanction system for those who have to have this as part of their labour market policy, and we have a sanction system under the social care law for those who support the livelihood of municipalities. It can be used by municipalities where people think they're going to hide, for example. recipients of social benefits. But I have to say that applying financial sanctions when you have alternatives, among other things. show that you have good enough Norwegian skills to take a test, regardless of participation, there seems to be a great deal of over-control for everyone. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e793	There will probably be opportunities for further deepening. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e798	All the hearing bodies have pointed out that Norwegian languages are very complex to learn. With regard to current teaching methods and skill level requirements, it is known that only very talented students will achieve a satisfactory level within 300 hours. Nevertheless, the Government proposes the right and obligation to Norwegian training only 300 hours. The Labour Party believes that this reform could contribute to less training for immigrants, no more. It actually also meant the right a few years ago, when they went in for a higher number of hours. But now it's changed, and then I'm going to ask the Council of State, how is the Council of State going to make sure it doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e804	Norwegian language is complicated. The languages of most other countries are complicated. And it's individually how complicated it is to learn another language, depending on where you come from. That's why we're concerned about personalization, so we have 850 hours and 3,000 hours in an A and a B. That's what's at the bottom here -- not 300 hours. It's 850 hours and 3,000 hours at the bottom, but the mandatory obligation that everyone should have, unless you can refer to an equivalent level of knowledge, it's 300 hours. I hope that the 300 hours will help once you have got people out of your home, for example. in the case of some migrant women, and on the school bench, it will give a greater taste of continuing training. The most important thing about this scheme is actually to get hold of those who are not currently meeting and participating at all. So now they have the possibility that they have to participate in this, and then they'll get the taste of it and want to learn more to work in a better way. I have faith in the individual's desire to learn Norwegian, if only they are allowed to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e809	I must first be allowed to fully agree with the Council of State that there has been a significant change in climate in the political environment regarding the view of demands and obligations regarding the integration of immigrants in Norway. The Progress Party is very pleased with this, and we hope, of course, that the climate change that is now taking place on the integration side will spread, so that we can support our policies in other areas of immigration. I would like to challenge the Council of State on a material matter, and that is the proposal of the Progress Party, No. 6, where we want greater demands and more tests than the rest of the parties to get Norwegian citizenship. In fact, the Council of State and the majority of the United Kingdom make greater demands on individuals in relation to obtaining a residence permit than to obtain citizenship. To me, it's a little logical flaw, so I hope the Council of State has a logical explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e816	It is not the case that there are weaker requirements for citizenship than for permanent residence permits; the same requirement for permanent residence permits is imposed as for citizenship. Then I agree that tests are important, but I don't think that a test for a citizenship now will be good, because I think we would have to make such a big exception for groups that won't be able to learn Norwegian – for example. be stateless, there may be people over 55 years of age who are not targeted for this, and a number of others – that it will be eroding on the scheme itself. But on the other hand, I'm very much for testing. That's why we're going to put tests into different parts of this plan, tests that can prove that you can. It's tests that can be used in the workplace, tests that are at different levels, that give you progress, that you have a goal to achieve. Among other things, we have to introduce a test for those who do not participate in compulsory Norwegian training, i.e. have the right and duty to Norwegian training, but who have acquired good enough knowledge on their own to prove it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e825	The Council of State says this is not a weakening of Norwegian training. It is good that the Council of State believes it should be so. What I am very uncertain about, however, is why the Government does not support the proposal of the majority of the committee that the main focus must be on ensuring that people are given a right up to a certain level. Then you had the opportunity to focus on what is important, namely that you learn Norwegian as well as you want. Then you can set the obligation to attend 300 hours or 500 hours. But what you're doing now, along with the financial arrangements that the Council of State puts up to, is you say that you have a right to 300 hours, and then the municipalities have a duty to provide them with training up to the level that we here specify. But if you really want to strengthen this right for the immigrants, because they are going to have the right to learn Norwegian in line with what you want, why won't the Council of State support our proposal of straight up to a certain level?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e832	I believe that if Heikki Holmås reads his post afterwards and sees what he says, he will discover that he has actually answered the question. So we give the municipalities an obligation to give up to 850 and 3,000 hours to those who have progress and benefit from the education. So it's in the system. There are issues of margins in having an individual right. What's important to us is that it's progress. There is good evidence that Norwegian training courses are used without progress. This means that if, for example: is a person who spends money on giving another offer, after 300 hours has only come half the time, you can say, you don't have enough progress. We're not going to invest any more in you unless you invest more in being present and actually use this. So we've actually answered the question. Municipalities have an obligation to make an offer as long as there is progress in development, and as long as one is present. But you don't have a right to go in and out and use it as a diabetes, or come back in three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e839	I want to ask the Council of State if she thinks there's a problem with that per. date is discrepancy between Regeninga and KS on the costs of the introduction programme. I found it particularly topical because it is well known that many municipalities otherwise have a very tight frame to stick to next year. I would also like to ask whether the Council of State can take a closer look at the fact that there are some participants who will have special expenses for child care and for money. Can the Council of State take a closer look at State involvement in the coverage of such expenditure? So some municipalities have a very special challenge, that's to make sure they're better news material than they are now. Can the Council of State get involved in that field?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e848	I think it's important to distinguish between the introduction program, i.e. the introduction scheme and the introduction benefit, and the right and obligation to Norwegian training, even if it's based on the same law. One part we don't have to deal with here. It's in the budget. In one minute, I focus on answering the second question, that is, on child care. The majority of those who will participate in legal and compulsory Norwegian education are family reunited in Norway. That means they have family here. I simply believe that it is not the public's task always to deal with child care. Now it's actually so that the man, if it's an immigrant, can take care of his own children. In fact, the mother-in-law who is already in the country can take care of the children so that the new daughter-in-law can participate. In fact, we have a community that can do that, just as everyone will expect me, if there's an evening meeting in Stortinget, to arrange babysitting for my children because the Stortinget doesn't cover any child custody system, neither for large-scale representatives nor for government councils. This is a right and a duty, but at the same time we have to make sure that immigrants learn the same forms of work that the rest of us have to do. Then we have to arrange some child care sometimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e855	If we go beyond speaking time, there's a danger of an evening meeting! If we stick to speaking time, it won't be an evening meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e858	It is known that many immigrant women do not have adequate Norwegian skills despite the long-term butide in Norway. The old scheme has been proposed to be terminated over five years. The working party is concerned that there may be some women who will not be able to take out Norwegian training hours within the framework of five years due to high levels of care or other circumstances. At the same time, we know that several of the women have a key role to play in relation to the possibilities of their children for a good day at school. I can understand that a time frame of five years can motivate long-term immigrants without Norwegian knowledge to take time off. But we still believe that there should be exceptions for women with large care tasks. My question is: does the Council of State think that giving such exemptions would imply significant negative consequences?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e863	I agree that there is good reason to be concerned about those who have been in the country for a long time, one of the reasons why we have launched a programme called ‘New Chance’. That's 10 million. kr within the budget specifically earmarked immigrant women who have been here for a long time, in order to get them more out into society. I am very concerned that we now need to have a consistent and clear pressure to participate and take out their Norwegian training hours. I believe that is one of the clear requirements we have to set, and the signals we have to send out to the immigrant communities. That's now you have to go in and take it. If it is only to be postponed and postponed, these women come to Norwegian education after they have finished school. If they are to wait until they have completed their care tasks, this means that the children have become teenagers. This may be one of the main objectives, namely to enable mothers to participate in school work and stimulate the development of children’s language, which has disappeared, because they are given the opportunity to wait until the children become too big.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e870	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e876	In the final article of the Council of State, she underlined the importance of women participating in this training. I fully agree that there is no good system if you have the opportunity to draw this out over a very long time, because then you learn little. But then it's so unbelievably revealing the post that the Council of State had that was about babysitting. There she revealed in a way that she did not realize that many immigrant women are actually in a completely different situation than she and I and everyone else are. Who can afford to pay babysitting privately outside? I understand that the Council of State has it. I probably would have had it. Very many immigrant women and immigrants do not have it. Then the council also sketches another very traditional model: that there should be a mother-in-law who is at home and takes care of the children, or that you should take this fight with a man who may not even want the woman to receive Norwegian training, and that he should be home to take care of the children! It's okay that we can discuss this here, but it doesn't make sense. If we want this to work properly, and if we want to ensure that these women have an opportunity to attend this Norwegian training, we need to ensure child care. I want to point to the scheme that Quo Vadis has, which has been very well-functioning for a long time. They have met the female illiterates who may have had the most problems learning Norwegian and getting out of work. They have succeeded, but they have combined this with child care, which means that you can be sure that someone will take good care of the children while you go on this scheme. It is very important that the person who has traditionally had a very heavy role and a great responsibility in taking care of the children is absolutely sure that the children are well, and that someone looks after them as you go to Norwegian training. Here, in fact, I believe that the Council of State is awfully old-fashioned and should reconsider its argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e885	I just want to say a little bit about what I experience as the main problem in a discussion like this, which I sometimes get a little tired of. It is not that the main challenge for newly arrived immigrants is that there is far too little obligation in society. The main challenge for a lot of people is that they don't have a job, but they want a job. The point is that many of them want to learn Norwegian. It hasn't been many years since hundreds of people were in line at Rosenhoff to get the training they wanted. The latest surveys on the housing market clearly show – there is no doubt – that many people feel discriminated against, and there are many people who do not have the housing standard that we believe is necessary. This is why it is important to introduce the right to Norwegian education — both this right and the right to get the basic welfare goods that we believe are obvious, such as work. You're going to work, you're going to work, we're always saying to people. But we are unable to ensure that unemployment among minorities and immigrants is drastically reduced. That's why I think it's important to say in this discussion that it's not that we have now finally revolutionized the whole arrangement by imposing coercion. The whole thing is that we're now getting some rights in place, and then we're moving towards better integration. It's one thing that's important to underline, and it's that coercion only works if it's a good offer – only. It says all of the Fafo reports where you've been working on these things: only if it's a good offer. That's why it's so important, as Karin Andersen mentioned in the post just before me now, to make sure that there's an offer that's available. When I talk to people from the minority community in my party and outside, there's no doubt that very many people think there's an enormous double in the attitude that meets them. One thing is that we say all the time that you have to learn Norwegian, you have to learn Norwegian, and then people sit on asylum receptions and want to learn Norwegian to start integration, but sit on average one year before they come out and get a positive decision. During that period, they could contribute and contribute themselves. In addition, we say that it is very nice that kids go to kindergarten, so they can participate and learn Norwegian, but then we pay people to be home with cash support instead. The whole of this duality that exists here is something that people with a minority background, and the immigrants in particular, feel – those who don't have any special money, don't get involved in the introduction program, those who are family reunited, and, as SV wanted, don't get involved in these things. But at the same time, they get a very hard job of being integrated as quickly as possible. This duality is a major challenge in meeting this debate in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e907	When I hear the Council of State's answer to my question about child care, I must in essence wonder that she fully understands the need for kindergartens in this country. Luckily, she's got it. Maybe it's also so that she expressed herself very strongly in relation to what she actually meant – I hope so. I want to remind her that there is actually a very big difference between people who are well established, whether in a position of trust or in a professional relationship, a great difference between such groups and individuals and one who comes to Norway, has recently arrived or has been here a little while, which may be motivated by Norwegian education, but has practical problems because a spouse is working in parallel with the fact that education is taking place, or at least on his own, one has no one who can fit this child. Then there may be an extra dilemma, and then I thought it was too easy to push this over to the individual and to the municipalities. I would like to urge the Council of State to follow up on how this works, and possibly come back in relation to a government involvement. So it's a fact that there are some municipalities that demand better material, they want their own inhabitants to be more integrated. They have something innovative to stick to, but too little, and it's up to a number of municipalities that take it seriously to accept those who have just arrived. My simple question is: can she imagine following it up with the department that is actually responsible for training?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e914	The introduction system is based on not having friends with immigrants to go on social assistance. It's based on paying taxes, participating in Norwegian society and under the same conditions as Norwegians, to get to know Norwegian society as it is. Of course, lone mothers who don't have anyone else will get help from a municipality. It is provided on an individual basis, as single Norwegian mothers get child care to do things. There are separate schemes for the supervision of single mothers. But I actually think you should be under the same arrangements as others are. Then there's a hope that we'll be able to get flexible solutions to Norwegian training that might make one take it sometimes in the afternoon, which means that the man might be at home from work. I'm making this a point, because I think in a way we're helping to say that they're going to be different from us. No, they're not different from us, they're going to live in this society, and then there's no need to make special offers because they're immigrants. Many of them are going to be able to organize this perfectly, because they're actually coming to large families where it's possible to find good organizational solutions to this. But if we create a expectation that there will be a public child care service in place for them to participate, we will also create wrong expectations about how the Norwegian society is built up. That's why I'm spending time stressing it, and I'm glad that the majority, I think, agrees with my position on this. So we should try to make it as similar as possible to other people. Then most municipalities now organise a child care scheme in connection with Norwegian education, because the main emphasis of those who go on this will be those who go on the regular full-time introduction scheme, where children’s supervision or childcare services will be provided as a help, and we will build up several open kindergartens in connection with this. But those who are actually best placed to see what needs exist are the municipalities, which are responsible for working with lone dependants, who are responsible for working with social assistance-related services, and who have the opportunity to follow up children who are at risk. Here, it is also natural that they make the individual assessment, whether or not child care is needed for some to contribute and get into our society in a better way. But I think that Heikki Holmås, who is usually on the barricades for men's rights and duties in Norwegian society – and sometimes goes further than I think one should go in terms of freedom of choice for individual families – should actually think that we should make the same demands for participation from immigrants that we should do to Norwegian men in this debate. So to the question of curriculum design, yes, we're looking at the question of how we're going to contribute to more curriculum design. There is a need to make better and more flexible solutions, and we should include new Norwegian solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e923	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 115]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e931	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 5. It may be necessary to go a few minutes beyond the regulatory time of the morning meeting, but the President assumes that it is okay for Odelstinget. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e940	During the debate, May Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the SV and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision asks the Government to consider raising the tender threshold to the maximum permitted by the EEA Agreement.» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e1259	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e1269	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e1276	During the debate, Ivar Kristiansen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e1334	The President here will vote on the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 15 on the right to participate in fishing and fishing, etc. [[Act of Participation]] The following shall be amended as follows:Article 9, second paragraph, shall be added:The King may, by way of regulation, lay down rules on notification obligations in the case of changes in ownership. Where such notification obligation has been introduced, the prohibition of transfer shall not apply until authorisation has been granted. However, the notification procedure may contain a prohibition of transfer within a certain period after the notification has been sent.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e1434	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e1445	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e1776	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e1786	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2064	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2074	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2081	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from the Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 4, by Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 5, by Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No 6, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 7 and 8, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President would point out that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 17 of proposal No. 1 goes out, as this is equivalent to the setting. Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a case concerning the imposition of financial penalties in the event of an invalid absence from the compulsory Norwegian training for circles of persons not covered by the introduction programme.’ Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘In the spring of 2010, the Government asks the Government to submit an assessment to the Storting whether the right to Norwegian training for residents and Norwegian citizens should be extended.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2256	To these paragraphs there are four different proposals. Paragraph 17, second paragraph, Section 17, fifth paragraph, first sentence, and Section 17, sixth paragraph, first sentence, paragraph 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The introduction law shall be amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 17 shall be replaced by the following:Foreigners aged 55 to 67 with a residence basis as referred to in points (a) or (b) and non-residents authorised under the Foreign Affairs Act Chapter 8 on specific rules for non-residents covered by the Agreement on the European Economic Area and the Convention establishing the European Free Trade Association with a residence permit granted for five years, as set out in the Annex. [[EEA Agreement]] [[EFTA Agreement]] Section 51 of the Foreign Affairs Act, cf. Paragraph 54 is entitled, but not required, to take part in training as referred to in the first subparagraph.§ 17 fifth paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following:The right and obligation to participate in training in Norwegian and social sciences does not exist if it is demonstrated that he has sufficient knowledge in Norwegian.§ 17 sixth subparagraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following:The right and the obligation to participate from the first and second subparagraphs shall occur upon the granting of the first authorisation under the Foreign Affairs Act, or from the arrival in the State of aliens so authorised for entry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2285	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The introduction law shall be amended as follows:The third paragraph of Section 18 shall be replaced by the following:The Community shall provide free child care during the teaching period for participants who are subject to the right and obligation to be trained in Norwegian and social sciences, who need it to fulfil their obligation to learn.The third subparagraph of the proposed act shall become the fourth paragraph.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2306	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The introduction law shall be amended as follows: the second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 17 shall be replaced by the following: Foreigners aged between 16 and 55 who are authorised as referred to in the first sentence on the basis of which the residence permit is granted are obliged to participate in training in Norwegian and social knowledge for a total of 500 hours, as specified in the first sentence. The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 18 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The Community may require persons covered by the fourth paragraph of Section 17 to pay for the training.§ The last sentence of the second paragraph of Section 18 shall be replaced by the following:The obligation of the Community under this paragraph shall apply for five years from the time when the right or obligation to participate in training in Norwegian and social sciences occurs, cf. Paragraph 17, sixth paragraph.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2333	Paragraph 17, first paragraph, and paragraph 18, second paragraph, first sentence, an alternative proposal, No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The introduction law is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 17 shall be replaced by the following:The right and obligation to participate in free training in Norwegian and social knowledge for a total of 300 hours shall apply to foreigners between 16 and 55 years of age who have received a residence permit or work permit under the law on residence permits, or (b) collective protection in a mass refugee situation under Section 8(a) of the second paragraph of Section 18 of the Foreign Act shall be replaced by the following:The community shall provide for additional free training in Norwegian to persons covered by the first and second subparagraphs of Section 17 within 2700 hours as soon as possible and within three months of the application for participation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2363	It is contested by the third paragraph of Section 17. Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party want to go against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2377	It is contested by the fourth paragraph of Section 17 and the last sentence of the first paragraph of Section 18. The Socialist Left Party has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2392	It is quoted above the paragraphs and sentences of Sections 17 and 18 which are not now contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2436	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 20 is replaced by the following:The Ministry may, by regulation, lay down detailed rules for the completion and implementation of this Chapter, including provisions on the objectives of training and on absenteeism and leave.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2510	Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party want to go against b, and it votes first over this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2522	The new second paragraph of Section 21 (a) and (c) to (f), which then becomes (b) to (e).
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2596	There are two different proposals. It is first proposal No 2 from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Norwegian Civil Code, Paragraph 6 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: 5 first sentence is replaced by the following:5. if the applicant is under 55 years of age, has completed 300 hours of approved Norwegian training or can demonstrate sufficient knowledge in Norwegian or Sami.» And that's proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Act on Norwegian National Citizens' Rights, Paragraph 6, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: 5 is replaced by the following:5. if the applicant is under 55 years of age, has completed 300 hours of approved Norwegian training or can document sufficient knowledge in Norwegian, and passed a specific test in Norwegian. The condition here applies to applicants who have their application decided after 1 September 2008.’» The proposal of the Party for Progress is first contested, then alternatively between the paragraph number of the first paragraph of the vote. 5 the first sentence and the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, and finally above the remaining part of the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2643	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2653	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23-lower.ana.ud1102e2663	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
