ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e29	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e32	As Mr Blankenburg pointed out at the end of the morning meeting, the debate on the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on Norwegian Iraq's policy has shown that there is a broader uprising in the United Kingdom than ever on the view that, on the basis of Security Council Resolution 1546 and the unanimous decision of the Council of NATO, Norway is obliged to participate in building up Iraqi police and security forces with a view to enabling Iraq to manage its own future as quickly as possible, without the help of other countries. It's important to establish. But as Haakon Blankenburg also pointed out correctly, there is one exception, and that exception is even more demonstratively visible than ever before, namely SV, which does not want Norway to contribute anything, neither in Norway, in Iraq or elsewhere, in enabling Iraq to cope with the development of its own society in the future. I think that is quite remarkable, that there is a large party in Norway's Grand Prix and a party leader who has no other answer to the question of Norway's place in the international picture than what can be expressed in the sentence: Move higher up on the Tribune, otherwise you could risk getting close to the track. It's as well known on most football courses, so the higher you get, the closer you get to the commentator box, which the Foreign Minister pointed out correctly in a line change with Kristin Halvorsen. It is and will be a cross of thought for me that, having followed today's debate, some people, for reasons of seriousness, may take the chance of ruling Norway with responsibility for Norway's NATO membership in the future, together with the party that has one wish, namely to resign, in a literal sense and in a transferred sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e41	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 630]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e56	The rapporteur is Finn Martin Vallersnes. He's not here. No pay will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e59	Since the representative Vallersnes has a permit, I will introduce the matter on his behalf. It does not need a long and comprehensive explanation, because the Committee's position is relatively brief and is relatively easy to read. As they will have seen, which has read the Committee's position, there are some alternate majority configurations in relation to part of the sections of the Committee's position. On one point, however, the Committee's position is quite clear: it is none other than the party that has promoted the proposal, which is close to supporting the proposal. So SV is in this case, as in the general debate on the Iraq conflict in relation to the Middle East in general, entirely alone. I would also like to assume that the proposal might not have been put forward and dealt with at the time it does, if one had been aware that the situation in the Middle East would change as much as it has done, with the former Palestinian President Arafat's illness and death. It must be said that in today's situation this proposal, which would also have been a bad proposal in other circumstances, is an unusually bad proposal. In fact, if the Stortinge had adopted the proposal put forward by SV in the vote, it would have resulted in Norway’s future effective announcement of any role as a possible mediator or the communication of views between the parties to the Middle East conflict. If a country had gone to the UN to gather the widest possible uprising about a boycott of one party in one of the most difficult and fixed conflicts on the map today, it would have been perceived as a pure demonstration, and it would have had a single political consequence, namely that Norway would never be able to enter the position that Norway had previously been in, that is, as an important actor to help communicate contacts between the parties to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. So it would have moved Norway out of the real political reality of the Middle East conflict and into the world of resolutions and demonstrations. There is full agreement among all parties in the Foreign Affairs Committee, with the exception of SV, that this would be a very unfortunate step to take, and a particularly unfortunate step to take in the situation we are at present. The ratio is that for the first time in some years there may seem to be some movement possibilities in the locked conflict. In that situation, Norway’s line should be to contribute as effectively as we are able to, in moving the parties with the key to constructive development in the Middle East, i.e. The United States, the EU, Russia and the parties themselves. If these heavy actors are not able to activate in the near future to contribute to the holding of free elections in Palestine, contribute to the building of a new Palestinian self-government authority with credibility and with weight, there will be no way to resolve the conflict. Norway’s ability to practice international pressure is, as you know, limited. But thanks to our NATO membership, and thanks to our good relationship with the EU, we are in that position that we can contribute with the weight we need to bring the peace process in the Middle East back on track. As the setting says, there's no need to draw a new map, because the road map is there, and everyone knows that it's just the road map we have at the moment as an option to get the conflict out of the dead water. I assume that the individual parties, in so far as they consider it necessary, will clarify their specific comments in the vote, so I will only agree to recommend the majority's clear recommendation that the SV's proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e74	At the death of Yassir Arafat, developments in the Middle East and the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians have taken a new turn, and in the opinion of the Progress Party, a new situation has now been created, which can give hope for a peaceful solution if added goodwill. But we have to be aware that Israel is no greater than the South Tributes, and it is not that Israel is made up of a land of wolves, while there are only innocent lambs outside the borders of Israel. The right of Israel to defend itself must not be called into question. Use of power may be necessary when under attack but must be proportionate to current threats. There are so-called responsible governments who want to deprive Israel of the right to defend itself. It seems that there is now a wave of antisemitism in Europe, which was also before the Second World War. When Israel then uses military forces to disarm extreme Palestinian groups in densely populated areas where they are hiding and where they carry out their abominable deeds, Israel is condemned as the wolf, while Palestinian terrorists are the lambs being attacked. When Israel then sets up a protective wall to protect its inhabitants, it is also wrong. One may slowly disagree on where the wall is going, or the necessity of it, but proposals have not been made by the so-called responsible governments to ensure the safety of civilian Israeli citizens. The road map for peace is just a map, without the will to follow the map being present. It is impossible to believe that the disarmament of terrorist groups can be done by personnel armed with stone, or that it is enough to use judgmental words. On 6 June, the Israeli Government took a decision in principle to withdraw from Gaza, which will also improve the security of both parties and may be an important step towards peace. Norway contributes money to the Palestinians, including: to school books in which the State of Israel does not exist, and in recent times questions have been asked about where money has gone. Norway should therefore impose requirements on the use of the funds on the Palestinian side and should exercise better control. Many countries have not yet recognised the right of the State of Israel to exist. The Progress Party will warn against resorting to sanctions against Israel while reporting serious violations of human rights, financing terrorist activities and widespread corruption on the Palestinian side. Internationally funded and organised terrorism must be combated by more active policies towards those countries that are behind and pull the strings, in particular Iran. Iran’s negative influence in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict and in Iraq is, in the view of the Progress Party, one of the main reasons why the work for peace has ceased. Proposals to impose arms embargo against Israel could be a derailment from the efforts of the parties to resolve peace and will provide the parties with new pretexts to deviate from the road map. The Progress Party will also demonstrate that one-sided Norwegian arms embargo or other sanctions against Israel regarding trade in defence equipment will be a type of measure previously rejected by the Stortinget. On this basis, the party considers that it is not in a position to support the proposal that the Grand Government should ask the Government to stop all purchases of defence equipment from Israel. Nor will we support the proposal that the Storting should ask the Government to propose an international arms embargo against Israel. One would like to see the world only kind and good, but as long as it isn't and resolutions and talk doesn't help, we have to be willing to protect countries and people, even with weapons if necessary. This applies to Norway, and it must also apply to other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e97	The requirement for sanctions against Israel on the basis of repeated violations of international law has been raised before, including from the EU. In April 2002, the European Parliament called for the termination of the cooperation agreement with Israel concluded in 2000. The European Commission has also asked that the goods produced in occupied Palestinian territories, labelled ‘Made in Israel’, will not have access to the European market. The official Norwegian opinion of Israeli international law offences — by virtue of its being an occupying power — calls for considerable pressure to be exerted on Israel in order to reach a peace agreement between the parties. However, one-sided Norwegian reactions are of limited importance. Therefore, Norway must initiate an international arms embargo and debate on trade sanctions against Israel in the United Nations. More and more people compare what is now happening in Palestine with the apartheid regime in South Africa. We also know that sanctions were very effective against the apartheid regime. John Dugard, himself a South African, who is the UN's special rapporteur on human rights in the Palestinian territories, points to the systematic discrimination that is taking place in the Palestinian territories. B’Tselem, an Israeli human rights organization, refers to many aspects. I'll mention two of them, which are actually happening on the West Bank. One is that there are up to 41 roads as a part of the population that are not allowed to use – they are only for the other part of the population. There are two legal systems, there are two people. The fact that in this context we are calling for at least a debate on this in international forums does not seem to me to be going too far. I am pleased that the majority, apart from the Progress Party, say that there must be a coordinated diplomatic and political pressure on Israel from the United States and the EU. It shows that we're still in the process of thinking that we're on that track. That is the main purpose of our proposal. But from the SV's point of view, we believe that the time has come for one to act more concretely, to show Israel that one of my seriousness with the UN resolutions, and that one should put power behind them. I also see that time has passed, and that 2004 no longer applies to the UN General Assembly, so of course ‘2004’ should not be included in our proposal. Thus, it should not read ‘2004’, but only ‘under the auspices of the United Nations General Assembly’. I accept the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e112	The representative Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The representative has also made a correction to proposal No. 3, that ‘2004’ expires.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e115	I am pleased that all parties, apart from the proposer himself, are in favour of rejecting the proposal. It would be a completely wrong signal if you were to give yourself up on a proposal that would play Norway in the future beyond the sideline when it comes to being a broker in the conflict. The proposer says that dialogue is necessary. But what kind of realism is that there should be dialogue, if one here creates embargo against one party? Of course, it's totally unrealistic. I'm not going to extend this debate by making a lot of arguments, but I'm referring to the notes, which are balanced, that point to the only common international way out of the problem, and to which a large number then join. At the same time, I have a certain need to say in relation to the author of the proposal and the way in which one makes it the responsibility of one party, that it is a paradox that the only real democracy in the region is a desire to create a boycott against. The representative Jacobsen himself named the human rights organisation B’Tselem. We've seen later days reporters in Haaretz, a great Israeli newspaper, about bad acts that have been done by Israeli soldiers. My question to the representative Jacobsen is: in which other countries in the region would such human rights organisations be possible at all? In what other countries in the region would it be possible for one of the prominent newspapers to write about that kind of thing in relation to its own forces? In what other country would the Supreme Court have come to a decision that said the government was forced to change the path of the wall, or the security fence? In the middle of that there may be a lot of things to criticize Israel for, as the plurals do in their comments, it's necessary to have these shades, as I think it looks like the proposer doesn't see at all. I think that the treatment of this document and the clear manifestation given here by Storting's plurality by saying no to assign responsibility to one party, but at the same time refer to the international road, which is the road map for peace, is a contribution to Norway's continued ability to play a central role in trying to give peace to those who have had more than enough war and suffering. The Palestinian people and the Israeli people devour something other than what they have had in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e128	It would not have been necessary to take the word after the introduction to Inge Wage and what has been said in the debate here, but I do it just to mark also where we stand. I am glad that SV has not responded to proposals for unilateral boikot from Norway, as there have been indications of some times in the debate from any team. In that case, it would be contrary to our UN policy. We have always said that it is the UN Security Council that is to deal with such matters under Article 7 of the UN Charter. When it comes to working for a boycott by the UN Security Council, I cannot help but understand that in that case it cannot be combined with the role we actually have today, namely to chair the donor country committee for the Palestinian territories. There'll be a meeting here, as far as I know, in a few days. I can only understand that meeting we could not have held if the Storting had gone into such a line. Because it's completely unmistakable that one party in this would find out that we had the presidency in such an important committee with such a policy. Just that tells us what line shift we would be facing if we had gone into the proposal here. The third point that I want to mention is what I've been busy with quite a lot of times: Western double politics and double morality in the Middle East, that it's not the same standard for everyone. For example, we went to a legal attack on Iraq to get Iraq out of Kuwait, as they had occupied, while the occupation of the Palestinian territories takes place for the fourth decade in a row, it is well, without the necessary power being put behind this by the UN Security Council. And nuclear policy: it is absolutely necessary to stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons, but there is another state in the Middle East that has nuclear weapons. There's a lot of things like this that make us in the Middle East not make our policies stick together. But this is a new proposal, for a new double policy, namely to have one standard for Israel and another for the Arab countries. Should one go to the boycott of Israel, but not of Saudi Arabia, not of the countries that have never recognized the State of Israel? So should we have a unilateral arms boycott of one country and not of all the other countries, which, after all, has led a policy that we have also been totally in disagreement with, namely that we have not recognised the right of the State of Israel to exist? I think we have to get into a line where it's the same standard for everyone in this region. This would be enough of an example of not having it. Then I agree with what the Committee has also said, that there is a need for a pressure on Israel, because there has been a weakness in this negotiating situation all the time that there has been an imbalance in power and power, in the disfavor of the Palestinians. Just that they were to set up so as to say that they were self-government and to work towards a Palestinian state without having defined the limits of where this state should go, and that they have actually been occupied while this has taken place, has, of course, made it quite impossible for the Palestinian self-government authorities. There is therefore a need to highlight stronger, I think, that we want first elections and legitimate leadership on the Palestinian side, and we want reforms on the Palestinian side. But we also need to keep up a little bit on the exercise of Israel's power, which has made it quite difficult for the Palestinian authorities to act as authority, but also to gain the support of their own people to negotiate solutions to the problem and not to engage in terrorism and violence in order to solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e147	Only briefly will I reply to Lilletun: Lilletun and I have had such a debate before, where I have admitted the democratic features that exist in Israel, absolutely. But that's exactly why it's also a good idea to run sanctions against them. It just turns out that towards countries that have come as far as Israel, there is a point to have sanctions. I would just like to say to my country that, of course, pressure must also be imposed on Saudi Arabia. But no one refuses anyone else to also propose sanctions against them. Because that is the whole problem, that we have as close contact as we have, with such totalitarian rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e154	The situation in the Storting regarding the position of the content of SV’s proposal is completely clear, so there is no need to say anything more about it. But I noticed that Bjørn Jacobsen in his main post said that he was pleased that the majority said in the speech that one would do its best to participate in the diplomatic press internationally in order to get a new movement in the Middle East. It must mean that Bjørn Jacobsen, when it comes to the matter, is pleased that the proposal he has made is being voted down. Because if that proposal had been adopted, one could have forgotten to participate in any form of diplomatic cooperation with any in connection with the Middle East conflict. So then you might say, ‘Best was it, maybe, it went as it went’, and that the SV itself is also quite happy that their proposal does not get any support in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e165	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 630]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e180	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 631]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e195	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 631]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e210	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 631]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e218	We're going to vote in case no. 1 to 7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e225	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, and these proposals will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e295	Here the President assumes that the Progress Party wants to vote against. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e308	There is no voting theme in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e315	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s statement at the Stockholm meeting on 23 November 2004 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e322	During the debate Bjørn Jacobsen put forward three proposals on behalf of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e361	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e368	I was also misled to vote incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-30-2.ana.ud896e375	Then the correct votes shall be 80 votes for the vote and 15 votes for the proposals. - That's how the suspension is adopted.
