ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e40	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e45	I propose Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e50	Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen is proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e64	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e71	The fact that bankruptcy residents are set up before they can form a picture of what really happened is a problem. This is why the Judicial Committee has been working for several periods to find a solution that ensures the means of settlement needed. On 15 June 1999 the following decision was taken in Stortinget: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that there are sufficient values in bankruptcies to enable it to operate properly’. Necessary settlement is, in the context of legal pledges, not a complete and exhaustive settlement, but the possibility of having an overview and an assessment of whether a detailed investigation should be carried out in order to identify possible creditor errors or other illegalities. The Committee is united in the view that it would be desirable to establish a legal security mechanism. This means that a person gives a well-established first priority to meet his or her needs for the necessary accommodation costs. However, the Committee is divided into a view on the scope of the limit on the amount of the legal tender. All members go for a starting point of 5 pst. by the pledge objects. SV does not want any further thanks, while the majority, the Labour Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, want a limit of 700 times the legal fee per. mortgage object. The progress party believes that the ceiling should be 100 times the legal fee per. the object of the pledge, and this is also linked to the fact that the grant to do such a care in the present situation is NOK 50000. The progress party thinks it's going to keep increasing this by 50 pst, and not by ten. So this is because we don't see the great need for a very high increase. Where there will be more than one pledge object, you will very quickly get up in very large amounts. The Legal Pensions Scheme is a curious innovation. In view of this, it should be prudent to bind too large a value. Although it does not necessarily mean that all the funds tied will be used in residential treatment, credit institutions will necessarily have to price them in when credit is to be granted. This disadvantage would be a strange extra burden for businesses and individuals established in Norway. Such exceptional additional costs would lead to a deterioration in competitiveness and, in particular, to problems at an establishment stage. Then, as you know, it's the most problematic thing to get risk capital. In order to avoid adverse impacts in the shipping industry, the Progress Party also considers that an exemption is necessary for ships and mobile devices registered in the Norwegian International Skip Register and Norwegian Ordinary Skip Register. Shipping is an important industry in Norway, which includes many workers both directly and not least indirectly on the supplier’s side. The imposition of additional spe­cific rules on the shipping industry will make a difficult situation even more difficult. The party of progress is of the opinion that if our proposal for a restriction falls, the disadvantage will actually exceed the benefit of legal security. In that case, we want to vote against the whole paragraph. As far as the claim is concerned, the Party considers that it is unfortunate to increase it at this stage. If we compare ourselves with our neighbouring countries, Norway has the highest claim. There can be no need to increase this further. It's a problem that private people don't see any good in taking on the burden of being bankrupt. The Judicial Committee delivered its opinion in Innst. O nr. 77 for 1998-1999: ‘The Committee is concerned with the social negative consequences of today’s situation by the fact that creditors see no point in requesting the debtor/activity bankrupt because it is not coverage...’ This also means that they will hardly assume any greater liability if their financial burden increases. Although it is initially the public that is usually the candidate, it does not get any better by getting the private to assume its responsibilities if costs increase. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e110	The representative, André Kukkestad, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e113	In the wake of the debate that politicians do not take financial crime seriously, we now have a good news to report from the Stortinget. The changes in bankruptcy and mortgage laws that will be adopted at Odelstinget today will be important measures to combat financial crime in the context of bankruptcy. In the proposition, a new rule is proposed in the mortgage law that bankruptcy residents should have a legal deposit of 5 pst. the value of all pledged economic assets included in the dwelling. The Workers' Party supports the proposal for 5 pst. legal security. More than half of all bankruptcy residents are cancelled because there is not enough money in their lives to review the economic transactions. One of the main reasons for this is the wide range of pledges that the mortgage law opens for. The certainty that the settlement will be most likely to be suspended may justify the clearing of assets before the bankruptcy is sought. The Ministry of Justice stresses in its proposal that there is reason to believe that there is a great deal of darkness in the case of financial crime in the event of bankruptcy. The point of bankruptcy is that there should be a thorough and critical review of the debtor's business and financial arrangements. There are too many bankruptcy residents who are not able to do this today. A legal pledge will precisely provide funds for the proper treatment of the bankruptcy, both in order to identify possible hidden funds and to detect financial crime. Most hearing bodies support the legislative proposal, but objections have been raised. Main business organisation, NHO, Main business organisation, FNH, and Shipowners’ association. NHO and FNH want a legal security deposit of 2 pst. considering that a higher percentage increases the cost of, and reduces the possibility of obtaining credit for, business and that they are afraid of excessive bankruptcy proceedings. The working party does not share the concerns of these organisations. The rule of law is expected to result in traders who want to pledge their property will normally only get them borrowed by up to 95 pst. of the value. The remaining financing needs must be met by traders by their own means or by unsecured credit at a higher value. We do not believe that it is necessarily unfortunate if the trader in this way receives a slightly more limited mortgage access. It may contribute to improving the credit providers’ credit rating and the follow-up of the credit. In the case of the fear of excessive bankruptcy proceedings, the law imposes restrictions on the last sentence of § 6-4 of the first paragraph of the Law, by using the right to pledge only to cover the necessary costs of the proceedings. On the other hand, the working party has been more uncertain about the objections raised by the shipping industry. They believe the proposal to introduce 5 pst. legal pledges will hit a capital intensive industry which shipping extra hard. Legal units will make up huge sums in this industry and will therefore bind significantly more than is necessary to the settlement. The majority, the Labour Party and the Government parties have therefore chosen to make some changes to the Government’s proposal. We essentially support a legal pledge of 5 pst., which is proposed in new mortgage laws § 6-4, but we believe it is appropriate to propose a restriction rule for separately valuable mortgages. We therefore propose that the legal security in real estate-registered mortgages be limited up to 700 times the legal fee. Today it will be equal to 518 000 kroner. Such a restriction will affect not only assets such as ships but also offshore devices, real estate and aircraft. All parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, support the Government's proposal to increase candidate liability. The legal liability has remained unchanged since 1989, and we believe it is natural that we now find a model that makes a more automatic price adjustment. In just half of the homes there are armored objects. For the remaining bankruptcies, only the applicant’s liability and, where appropriate, other free means can then be used for the settlement. The Labour Party is pleased that there will be a majority in the UK to provide more funds for bankruptcy treatment, and that this will also enable us to have a new means of combating economic crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e139	Right supports the proposal for the introduction of a 5 pst subsidiary legal pledge. of all pledged values. The introduction of a legal pledge rule, combined with an increase in the applicant’s liability, means that expenditure on accommodation is allocated between the traders and the public. The legal mortgage will have an impact on the mortgage holders in cases where the pledged property is borrowed by more than 95 pst. of the estimated value of the economic good or of the sale of the economic good. In that case, the legal pledge will be ‘outside’ to the less senior pawnbroker. The aim is to ensure the means for the proper treatment of the bankruptcy, both in order to identify possible hidden funds and to identify any financial crime. The legal post shall cover only the necessary housing costs and, alternatively, shall only be used where the other funds of the estate are not sufficient to cover the tree costs. The current situation is that, regrettably, several bankruptcies end without significant investigations, due to lack of means of accommodation. A proper review of the residents of the bankruptcy would reveal whether, in reality, in the ‘empty dwellings’, there are funds that can be supported or otherwise made available to the creditors. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of bankruptcies suspended under the bankruptcy law because there is no funds in the dwelling to cover the continued care of the residents. The increase in the number of accommodation units is probably due to the wide range of mortgages that the mortgage law opens for. Nor is it particularly elevating that it took 15 years from the Committee for the Control of Bankruptcy Law, the so-called Falkanger Committee, to the decision of the Stortinget to add more capital to the bankruptcy houses. There is wide access to pledge values in Norway. This means that there is little free means of accommodation. 5 pst. constitutes a maximum amount which is of practical importance only if the residence is not otherwise provided for. The NHO, the Shipowners’ Association and the Main Financial Industry Organisation have all expressed scepticism for the proposal for 5 pst. legal security. In view of the impact on industry’s financing needs in general and on shipping in particular, a limit of 700 times the legal fee for separately valuable mortgages is proposed. With a legal fee of 740 kroner, 700 R will be equal to 518 000 kroner. With such a restriction on the legal pledge, we meet the critical comments of the business community, and this will affect assets such as ships, offshore devices, real estate and aircraft. The legal liability was limited to NOK 20 000. The amount has remained unchanged since 1989. It is appropriate to link the applicant’s liability to the basic fee in the Law on Fees, so that it is automatically adjusted in the event of changes to the basic fee. The claimant's liability is therefore set at 50 R. With a legal fee of 740 kroner, 50 times the legal fee will be higher than 37 000 kroner. There is a necessary increase that is slightly greater than a purely price adjustment suggests, among other things. This is due to the fact that, following the 1999 amendment of the law, the administrators have been given a number of tasks. In 2003 there was NOK 10 500 left for residents to work for, less the legal fee. This gives very little opportunity to the residents to carry out appropriate housing and to pursue suspicions of financial mismanagement. There are armored objects in something over half of the bankruptcy houses. For the remaining bankruptcies, only the applicant’s liability and any other free means of handling can be used. If you do not increase the applicant's liability, as the Progress Party suggests, it really means that there will be no improvement in the so-called empty nests. The aim of the legislative reform is to provide more means of dealing with housing. It seems that the rapporteur and the Advance Party intend not to add more funds to the farmers, with the consequences of this for proper housing. No fund is established for housing costs based on the fees of traders or a compulsory insurance scheme that would impose personal liability on owners or members of the board for expenditure on accommodation. Such proposals would have a very adverse impact on business.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e162	First, I want to take up the SV proposal mentioned in the setting. It seems very important that sufficient resources are available to combat financial crime in all areas. It is therefore very positive that the Government has now put forward a proposal for a law to ensure the necessary means of proper settlement in the event of bankruptcy. During the examination of the current year’s government budget, the Justice Committee pointed out that cases of financial crime are those that have had the greatest decrease in the percentage of disclosure. It's very serious. It is therefore important to facilitate the possibility of the police job being carried out when there is a suspicion of a default in bankruptcy. A first step on the road towards this is to ensure that the board of directors can do the necessary job, and for as long as necessary. In all matters that end up with police investigation, it is important that evidence protection is started as soon as possible. In cases of bankruptcy, the Board of Housing first comes into contact with any future evidence. On the basis of the wish for a higher percentage of information, it is poor that the resources of the Board of Directors should be limited in some of the major issues. Here we come up with that part of the proposal for a decision in which the Committee separates layers, the proposal for a new Section 6-4, first paragraph, third sentence. SV has joined the Government's proposal for 5 pst as the only batch. mortgage without a maximum amount limit. There is no reason why relatively small amounts of money should be spent on housing in the largest companies. It's often in the biggest companies it's extremely difficult to see, there's complicated things, and there's the big problems for the housing agencies show up. SV thinks it is good that the government proposes an increase in the applicant's liability. Claimant liability has been still since 1989, while the fee for the handling of cases has been increased. Thus, the residual amount available for residential treatment today is significantly lower than that available in 1989. The increase that has now been proposed allows for similar housing treatment to that which was feasible 15 years ago. At the same time, it is positive that the claimant’s liability is linked to the legal fee, so that in the future they will not be left in the loop and go beyond the means available to the settlement. SV is satisfied with the proposal for a system of return from residence. It is important to seek to limit the loss of the creditor as much as possible, while not wasting unnecessary time. In this context, it is important that leases for premises are now also easier to convert. These may be important assets in some industries. An industry in which premises constitute a significant part of the assets is the service industry, and it is an industry in which it is known from experience that there is financial crime. However, the most important thing for SV is the Government's proposal on 5 pst. legal security for housing costs. We find it strange and unfortunate that the government parties on the Stortinget, with the support of the Workers' Party, find that other considerations weigh more heavily on this matter than the important considerations on which the Government has based its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e181	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e184	In recent years there has been an increase in the number of bankruptcies suspended under the bankruptcy law. Dwellings are cancelled because there is no means to cover the remaining care. The increase in the number of accommodation units is largely due to the wide range of pledges that the mortgage law opens for. For the Christian People's Party, it's a priority goal to ensure that there are enough values in bankruptcy settlements to be able to operate sound housing. There's reason to believe that there's a lot of darkness about financial crime in bankruptcy. It is therefore important that the necessary funds are put at the disposal of the governors so that the activities of the debtor of the bankruptcy can be further developed. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 26 for 1998-1999 on the amendments to bankruptcy and mortgage laws, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to consider different ways of ensuring that there are enough values in bankruptcy settlements to operate properly. The Christian People's Party will commend the Ministry of Justice for following up this decision with good and constructive proposals in the proposition currently under consideration. The proposal proposes a new provision in the mortgage law that the bankruptcy residence be legally pledged in 5 pst. the value of all pledged economic assets included in the dwelling. The purpose of this proposed amendment is to ensure that the bankruptcy is properly dealt with. This is important both in finding any hidden values in the dwelling and in detecting any financial crime. The legal post may only be used to cover the necessary housing costs and is subsidiary in the sense that it can only be used when the other funds of the estate are not sufficient to cover the tree costs. However, the legal security shall be used before the liability of the bankruptcy claimant under Section 73 of the bankruptcy law enters into force. The Christian People's Party supports in all materially the introduction of a legal pledge of 5 pst., as proposed in the proposition. However, we believe, like the majority of the Judicial Committee, that it is appropriate to introduce a restriction rule on separately valuable mortgages. We believe that the legal security deposit in real estate-registered mortgages should be limited up to 700 times the legal fee. There are two reasons why the Christian People's Party wants such a restriction rule: 1st@item: inlistbox An amount equal to 700 times the legal fee will provide the bankruptcy residence with a non-negligible amount for the purposes of settlement.2. We also believe that the introduction of a legal pledge of 5 p.m., without any upper limit, can make the capital injection unnecessarily difficult for businesses that have particularly valuable assets. It is very alarming that the Progress Party, which has traditionally been committed to combating crime, wants to limit the legal pledge of just 100 times the legal fee, or 74 000 kroner. It is a fact that the Progress Party, if implemented, would do much less to expose financial crime than that resulting from the majority vote. The consequence of the position of the Progress Party is that much competition crime would remain hidden. But maybe it's not so important for the Progress Party to reveal so-called white-collar crime. For the Christian People's Party, combating crime in all its forms is an objective. In particular, resources should be used to combat the cynicism and egoism that are often motivating to competition crime. The proposals in Ot.prp. No 23 will prevent financial crime in company relationships. Increased resources for residential treatment facilitate the detection of substances such as alcohol and alcohol. not to be attempted, or which may be supported for the benefit of the residency. Unpriority creditors always lose sight of the fact that the settlement is cancelled shortly after the bankruptcy because of a lack of funds. In the view of the Christian People's Party, securing funds for a proper review of bankruptcy accommodation is an important contribution to the detection of any financial crime. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposals in the motion for a resolution, with the supplement I have already explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e221	It is with satisfaction that I can now see that the result of a long-term work on legislative changes with a view to obtaining more funds for bankruptcy proceedings is available for treatment in Odelstinget. As Minister of Justice, I tried to get this system into place in 1999, and I think it is good that we have achieved a good result in 2004. Today, most receivers of bankruptcy feel that there is very little means of dealing with housing. A high number of settlements are cancelled under Section 135 of the bankruptcy law because the property funds cannot cover the costs. Therefore, housing treatment becomes summary, and there are limited opportunities to detect financial crime and other malaise, including cumbersome transactions. A more thorough treatment of residence may lead to more funds being found in the residence and to a better coverage of creditors’ claims. On the basis of a major decision taken on 15 June 1999, in which the government was asked to investigate various ways of ensuring that there are enough values in bankruptcy to operate sound housing, the Government has carried out a consultation of various proposals to provide funds for the residents. The consultation round provided predominantly support for a combination of a legal pledge for housing costs and an increase in the bankruptcy claim's liability, as proposed by the Government in the proposal. I am pleased that the Committee supports the Government's intention to secure the necessary funds for the proceedings and that the majority of the Committee is in favour of a legal pledge of 5 p.m., combined with an increase in the applicant's liability. In this way, the cost of increased funds to the residents will be distributed between the traders and the public. I am also pleased that the majority in the Committee supports the Government's proposal that the percentage should be 5. In this context, account must be taken of the particular nature of mortgage access in Norway, which is one of the main reasons for the lack of funds in bankruptcy. I noticed that the majority of the committee wants the rate of 5 pst. shall be combined with an amount limit for separately valuable pledged items of 700 legal fees in each pledged item. In my view, it is good that the amount limit is set so high, in view of the fact that in larger and complex dwellings there may be a need for more extensive housing treatment. It is important that there is flexibility in the legal pledge rule with a view to such a situation. This has also been pointed out by several hearing bodies. At the same time, the legal pledge will in any case be limited to the necessary housing costs, so that there is enough room for manoeuvre. An amount limit of 100 legal fees, proposed by the minority, could be too low, for example: in a dwelling where there is only one pledged object. I would also like to point out that the grounds for equality and the need for the legal pledge to be an effective instrument for obtaining funds for the peasants argue that there is no exemption for ships. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal to increase the applicant's liability to 50 times the legal fee. In many homes, there are no pledged assets. If the applicant's liability is not increased, there will be no improvement in the position of these properties. Per. Today, residents in such homes only have NOK 10 750 to work for if there is no other means of living. It goes without saying that this is too small. The price increase since 1989, when the claimant liability was set at NOK 20 000, is alone an argument to increase the amount. I've recorded that the Committee's minority does not want to increase the claimant's liability because a fear of social negative consequences if creditors fail to file for bankruptcy if the financial burden becomes too high. In this context, I would like to remind you that it is such that the public covers the claimant's liability in 95 p.m. by the residents of the bankruptcy. Therefore, it would be of very limited practical importance for some more private creditors not to seek bankruptcy because of the increase in the applicant’s liability. I would also like to point out that it will in any case have limited value if a creditor requests bankruptcy, if there is so little money in the dwelling that the accommodation is immediately cancelled without further investigation. I am pleased that the Committee also supports the Government's other proposals for changes to bankruptcy law, including the proposal for a special procedure for the resale of the property to the debtor and the extension of the right of residence to take over commercial leases. These proposals will help to counter planned bankruptcies and, hopefully, together with increased means of dealing with them, will help to make no profit from going bankrupt. Let me end by saying the following: a few years ago, there was a rather striking report in the Economic Report on what we call «bankruptcy riders with university education». We are faced with quite cynical, clever and intelligent criminals, who, in practice, in their behaviour and when they succeed, put an enormous cost, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises, who become entangled when they are about to settle. So ensuring that system, as the Storting is doing today, is also a commercial protection for small and medium-sized enterprises in the business world against being exposed to people who wonder that they are unable to recover when the situation gets tough. Strengthening the housing is therefore a handshake for the conscientious housekeepers we have today, who do a great job. There is also a handshake for the police to do their job. In total, I think that there are ways to improve the fight against economic crime. And let me say it again: economic crime always hits businessless – those who can't take it back.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e248	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e251	I notice that the Christian People's Party is of the opinion that today's practice from the Government to grant only up to $50,000 is to expose as little financial crime as possible. I assume that you are aware that even with a limitation in the legal deposit of 100 times the legal fee, corresponding to approx. 75 000 kroner, you have a strong increase. And if there's more than one pawn, yes, you have a dramatic increase. It is well in that, in the event of a creditor's default or bankruptcy as such, the unpriority creditors would be the losers. Housing services where funds can be recovered will benefit those with unpriority requirements — not for mortgage holders. Then it is a little strange if someone believes that only pawnbrokers will cover all the costs of housing. The legal pledge is meant to do, is to be able to form a picture of whether there is a reason to continue the proceedings, either because of some criminal or because of a creditor's betrayal or the possibility of getting more money for the residence. In a further settlement, it's a point that those who get the total gain, i.e. those who get the unpriority, also contribute financially to discovering what brings them profit. It would be special to say that one hopes that the pawnbrokers will pay as much as possible, so that those who get the win when returning the money to the house will not pay anything. Then I notice that the Council of State is pleased that being bankrupt initially is a public liability, because in 95 pst. by the residents of the bankruptcy, as pointed out by the Council of State, the public liability of the applicant is covered. And it doesn't seem like the Council of State wants to have any change on that percentage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e262	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1395]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e278	The amendments and technical adjustments to the Civil Protection Act proposed by a Joint Defence Committee are a follow-up to the Innst. S. No 9 for 2002-2003, cf. St.meld. No 17 for 2001–02, Social security — The path to a less vulnerable society. The main change is that civil protection is now being organised as a separate agency with a direct guideline from the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. From January this year, civil defence was divided into 20 districts, stately, with the exception of Finnmark, which are divided into two districts, and the Middle Hålogaland police district, which has become a separate district. Each district shall be managed by a district manager. Today's system of police officers being circuit managers ceases. And the County Council is relieved of its administrative responsibility for civil defence. Civil defence is a national reinforcement resource in the event of major accidents and disasters, for example: in the event of fires, floods, races and oil spills following shipwreck, as well as accidents involving radioactive precipitation and major chemical accidents. Civil defence has also established international humanitarian aid teams abroad. The tasks of civil defence in the field of war are of a preventive and harmful nature, including: in the form of shelters, warnings, war relocations, evacuations, information and forces of intervention. The Committee agrees that civil protection should be continued and further developed on the basis of today’s portfolio of tasks. The Committee is in the process of examining the defence's long-term proposal and is also aware that the Ministry of Justice is now writing on a new major communication on social security and civil-military cooperation, which will be presented to the Stortinge during the spring. With today’s threat picture, it is important to see overall social security, both civil and military, in context and to treat long-term plans at the same time. In this context, the Committee has therefore taken a note to clarify the need for close cooperation and interaction with non-governmental organisations, the Home Office and other parts of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e295	The consideration of this setting of the Odelstinget with proposals for amendments to the Civil Protection Act reflects an amended etat. The law regulates, inter alia: the local organisation of civil defence. In St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002 on social security, it was suggested that civil protection should be organised as a separate regional body. Int. S. No 9 for 2002-2003, cf. St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002, the Committees mainly joined the report and the proposal for a communication. This means that civil defence is organised as a separate establishment divided by counties, with the exception of North Norway, where Finnmark is divided into two circuits, and the Middle Halogaland police district becomes a separate circuit. The police officers are relieved of their responsibilities as circuit managers in Civil Defense. Furthermore, the name of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness shall be incorporated into the law and some other name changes and linguistic adjustments shall be incorporated. Initially, only such technical adjustments are currently being considered. However, I would like to take this opportunity to draw the perspective a little further. Society needs the civil defence resource. Society may be so devastated that the resources of emergency budgets are very close. Extensive terrorism, where it cannot be excluded that weapons of mass destruction can be used as weapons of terrorism, requires a special preparedness for society. Civil defence is an organisation built on vulnerable crews. Their efforts and commitment are a foundation for civil defense's solution. I would also like to highlight the efforts made by the civil defence staff. They have been important contributors to the organisation being relocated from the cold war demands to meet today’s security challenges. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank Stortinget for the dialogue we have had on civil defence, not just through the treatment of Innst. S. No 9 for 2002–03, where the framework for the future of civil protection was laid, but also for the purchase of materials for civil defence, e.g. for the treatment of Innst. S. No 252 for 2001-2002, including Civil defence was strengthened following the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. I believe the strengthening of civil defence on the material side has been both important and correct. This applies in particular to the purchase of the Civil Protection Purity Units, which provide a reinforced preparedness for mass destruction agents. The ongoing conversion of civil protection, which will be finalized after the processing of this suspension, will make an important contribution to ensuring the proper use of the civil protection resources represented by it. However, the current civil defence law is more than 50 years old and existed at a time of completely different security policy challenges and entirely different social structures. In St. prp. No 1 for 2003–04, the Ministry was informed that it is working on a proposal for a new Civil Protection Act. This work will help to ensure that the legal basis in the future provides a reflection of civil defence and the society in which it operates and serves. I look forward to a good dialogue with the Stortinget on these issues and also on the matter raised by the representative Wisløff Nilssen, the communication that comes in connection with the work of the Defence Committee on the long-term defence plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e314	Just a very brief comment on the last thing that the Council of State said. When Stortinget treated St.meld. No 17 on social security and the Middle East. S. No 9, asked the Committee to have a parallel roll-out of the long-term plans for defence and civil protection. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State is now coming from the pulpit, also in relation to what the rapporteur said, stressing that he will come to Stortinget during the spring with a follow-up of St.meld. No 17 and a new roll for civil protection. In this respect, I would also like to stress some of the points made by the rapporteur that the interaction between civil and military preparedness is becoming increasingly important in an anti-terrorism preparedness. It was also not accidental that we treated St.meld. No 17 on vulnerability and social security, put a great deal of emphasis on, among other things. cooperation between Home and Civil Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e321	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2 [[Footing, see page 397]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e337	Brother Yngve Rahm is given the floor on behalf of the case spokesperson, who is a member of the Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e340	In its proposal, the Ministry and the Proposition facilitate some additions to the planning provisions of the Building and Planning Act, which are linked to the possibilities of limiting objections to plans that have already been decided by way of objection, or are set out in plans against which objections could have been raised. Furthermore, it is proposed to limit the possibility of repeated administrative complaints, so as not to be subject to any complaint in relation to a plan item which has been decided in the past through objections or complaints at regulatory or building level. As indicated in the opinion, the Committee does not have any divergent proposals. Nor is there any disagreement of any importance, with the exception of small language formulations. The Committee therefore agrees that we do not see the need for a wide-ranging debate on this issue, and that the speech to the rapporteur, whom I represent, will be the only speech on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e349	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 398]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e362	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e369	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Kijkestad on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government not to increase the applicant’s liability for regulatory changes at this stage.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e478	There are three different proposals here. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposal from the Socialist Left first, then on the proposals from the Progressive Party, and then on the Committee's position. The progress party has notified that they wish to vote against the setting. Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, says: «In Act No. 8 February 1980 No. 2 if the pledge is amended as follows:The third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6-4 shall be replaced by the following:The consideration represents five per cent of the estimated value of the good or of the sale of the good.’ Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: «In Act No. 8 February 1980 No. 2 if the pledge is amended as follows:The third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6-4 shall be replaced by the following:The patent shall constitute five per cent of the estimated value of the good or of the sale of the good, but may not constitute more than 100 times the legal fee in each pledged item.» Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: «In Act No. 8 February 1980 No. 2 in the case of mortgages, the new Section 6-4, ninth paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: The rules of this Section do not apply to ships or floating installations registered in the Norwegian International Skip Register or in the Norwegian Ordinary Skip Register [[9]] [[NIS]] [[NOR]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e644	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e654	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e745	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e755	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e819	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e829	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25-lower.ana.ud81e840	There is no record.
