ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e30	It is high time we changed the way people who are in the worst crisis of their lives are met by the public. It is high time that relatives of killed children receive financial assistance to comply with the case, that they are entitled to an aid lawyer, that they are entitled to have access to the file, and that they are entitled to be informed that an action has been brought in the case. It was just supposed to be missing! I have had contact with many relatives of children who have been killed, both parents, siblings, aunts, uncles and others. They are in the worst crisis of their lives. They expect them to be taken care of well. But what's going on? Many feel invisible, many feel like a hair in soup, as someone who is really immaterial and also a little annoying. And many people experience that the defendant gets better care than they do. It doesn't matter! I have met with parents who have lost their child because someone has killed it, and who has not been told that the charge has been taken out in the matter. I have met the parents of a girl who was hit and killed by a drunk driver, and they told me that they were not told that the matter was appealed. Several people I've spoken to are completely dismayed at the way in which the trial is conducted, the conduct of the defender, and that they haven't even had a place next to the aid lawyer if they have called for compensation and thus been granted an aid lawyer. Many people have been completely confused about what rights they have, and they really haven't had any profit trying to figure it out either. This is unworthy, and I've been so ashamed when I've talked to them. With this proposition, the Minister of Justice and we have taken some steps in the right direction. But we are still miles away from the goal of satisfactory victim care in Norway. It is clear to the public that most parties are more willing to grant money for the execution of the penalty imposed than for the care of the victims. I'm asking for two thoughts in my head in full. I would also like to point out that the SV and the Progress Party have proposed that parents of children who have been subjected to a criminal act that did not result in the child's death, but who were entitled to an aid lawyer, should also have the opportunity to follow the case, and that the siblings of killed children should also be able to receive financial assistance in order to attend the case in the courts. We note that there is no majority in this Chamber to take such action now, but the case has been sent to the working group to assess the care of victims in a wider perspective later. That's the second best solution. Finally, I would like to commend the work that, among other things, The Stine Sofie Foundation, the National Association for Victims of Violence and Individuals, which the parents of Kristoffer Inderberg Bastian have done to raise their situation to the light. We need to know that this has cost, and I really don't think it should be that individuals have to turn around in the media in order for something to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e45	I am very pleased that the Committee has joined in the proposal to strengthen and make visible the legal status of relatives in cases where children have died as a result of a criminal offence. The issue of the situation of the relatives in criminal matters has been mentioned in the recent social debate, and the government's work on improving the position of some relatives has been a high priority. There's one thing I'm burning for. Firstly, the proposal allows parents to cover travel expenses arising from the main negotiations under the travel regulations of the State, as well as the right to grant parental cover for documented expenses and lost earnings as far as is reasonable. Furthermore, the proposal implies that parents are given a clear right to an aid lawyer if they so wish, regardless of whether or not they submit claims in the case. In addition, the proposal provides for the same group of persons to be granted certain other, new and explicit criminal procedural rights. I am presenting here the proposal to give parents the right to access documents in the same way as insulted. I am also pleased that the Committee has acceded to the proposal to give the right to oblige the person or others to leave the court when the parents explain themselves, even if there is reason to believe that the witness will in any case provide an unreserved explanation. The background to this proposal is that explaining with the intended presence can be a great impression for parents. During the consultation round, the hearing bodies were somewhat divided in their views as to the relatives to be covered by the types of cases. I believe that the proposal represents a balanced solution when, as a general rule, it includes parents, possibly guardians, to children under the age of 18 when they were killed as a result of a criminal offence. However, exemptions have been provided for following a concrete assessment, as a sharp limit may lead to unfair results in practice. The proposal therefore envisages that even parents of children over 18 years of age may be granted rights when special circumstances exist. I understand the Committee's wish that, in specific cases, even those who had parental responsibility should be entitled to compensation. Only parents may need to bring a companion, or the parents may not be able to attend the court themselves, but they need someone they know to follow the case. I therefore support the clarification proposed by the Committee in the law on the remuneration of witnesses and experts in order to provide for such a flexible system. If the rules are adopted, I intend to bring them into force as soon as possible. The next milestone in the work for the offended and relatives' position is the selection that the Government will bring down in a short time. There is a need to explore how to strengthen the penal position of offended and relatives. I take with me the input of the Committee when it comes to drawing up the mandate. I would also like to ask a working group to consider how to improve care for offended and relatives in their meeting with the criminal justice system. In the case of comments made by the Progress Party and SV in particular. to ensure that the parents of children who are registered as assistant lawyers receive financial support to follow up the case, there is a problem that I would like to include in the selection that will go further in this matter. I also want to look at other issues raised in the committee, because I think it is important to have an open assessment of them. I agree with the majority of the Committee that relevant organisations can be involved in the development of care for relatives, and I would like to point out to the members of the Progress Party that the Department has had long-standing and strong cooperation with the Stine Sofies Foundation, because it is important. I would also like to agree with the reflections made by the representative of Thorkildsen that we have a lot of surprises. But then we get to do the job. I will also, like the representative Thorkildsen, give recognition to people who have taken that burden on behalf of society to tell their history in different contexts. I've also met some of those people. I think they've done this in a very real and impressive way, to say it like this. There are many of them, and there are different fates. It is also the meeting with these fates that, in sum, has influenced me to address this matter. With regard to the Committee's wish to give priority to matters relating to the compensation of victims when someone has lost a child, I would like to take it into account in the continuous work we are doing, in order to ensure that the proceedings are as rapid and as good as possible in cases of compensation for victims of violence. I see, as it was said at the beginning of this matter, that it is an important matter. I would like to conclude by saying something that goes beyond this matter. Over many years in political work, in practical social work and in diaconal work, I have been given the impression that relatives in many contexts are an invisible group in Norway. I don't think they're well-valued, among other things. in the work they do to drug addicts. Nor do I think that they are always valued and appreciated in the meeting with other public entities in Norway, for example. with health authorities and social authorities. There's no doubt that there's people here doing a lot of work. If we confess that we are all citizens of a society, and that civil society is fundamental to the existence of society as such, it is time that we see and recognize the relatives. What is happening today is an important step in that direction, but there are several steps that also need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e83	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 575]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e99	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers from each party group and from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e110	The organisation of civil justice on the ground plane has been under assessment for many years, and therefore I am pleased that we have finally got a clarification. The Judicial Committee, in joint comments, stressed that we are concerned that the justice sector ensures the legal certainty of individuals in a good way and appears to be public friendly. These two considerations have been strongly reflected in the Committee's work on the matter. The changes in civil justice on the basic level must also be seen in the context of the extension of police reform. I would like to thank the parties who have contributed to the creation of a majority for the proposal and for the additional amendments that have been made. The majority consists of the governmental parties, the Workers' Party and SV. The Progress Party has promoted its own model that is very distinct from the majority’s proposal. The model of the Progress Party is linked to the courts and, in my view, is a far more bureaucratic, heavy-headed and lavish model for citizens than the police model. The progress party will explain its own views on the matter later. The civil court is best known through the settlement councils. However, the function of the public prosecutor, the function of the witness and other legal actions carried out at the level of the district courts is also considered to be the civil court on the ground plane. The main issues addressed by the Judicial Committee in dealing with the proposition have been how we can modernise, streamline and simplify the organisation of the tasks and structure of the officers' function and the conciliators' councils. A key prerequisite for changes in the organisation of civil justice has been to simplify the recovery of undisputed claims. The majority of the Judicial Committee has supported the Government's proposal to introduce a system of direct enforcement in cases where the debtor does not contest the claim. In practice, this means that a plaintiff can contact the plaintiff directly without having a judgment as a background to the claim. This reinforces the legal certainty of the individual who does not have a judgment before the requirement is collected. In addition, the parties will reduce the costs associated with the settlement process in the many cases where the debtor does not object. For the debtor who ultimately has to cover all the costs of compulsory collection, this will result in reduced fees, salaries and other costs. As a result, debtors who are already in a difficult economic situation, and may also be in a weak position, do not incur greater costs than is necessary. Reduced costs, especially for debtors, have been an important element in switching to this scheme. A faster and cheaper recovery of claims will also be able to keep debt turbulence away from the debtors. I would like to point out in particular that the proposal for a law on direct enforcement includes many additional elements of legal certainty, compared to the general rules on outlays. The extension request shall include some additional information on the requirement, since the request shall also comply with the requirements of a settlement appeal. Furthermore, I would like to point out that any objection made in due time from the debtor against the claim leads to no interpretation until the matter has also been dealt with in the Conciliation Board. Some might ask whether the direct enforcement mechanism could lead to abuse. The majority have said to this that it is a principle advantage that the claim of the creditor is not made enforceable under direct enforcement. It has a preventative effect that the defendant may challenge the claim in retrospect. In addition, I can mention that such an additional security does not exist if the collection starts in the settlement councils. During the work of the Committee, we have received concerns that the direct recovery system could promote more unjust claims. In order to ensure that this is done, the majority have proposed that the authorising officer may have access to fees in advance. There will then be a change in Section 14 of the Law on Legal Fees. During the work on the bill, there has been concern that the direct recovery of undisputed claims will mean a considerable increase in the amount of work done by the tax collector. The majority of the Committee has therefore been concerned with ensuring sufficient jobs, so as to avoid arrears and waiting time. The Conciliation Council as an institution shall remain unchanged, and I am particularly concerned that the local anchoring of the settlement councils is in place. Conciliation Board is an effective way of resolving conflicts. The number of settlements is increasing. In 2002, the Conciliation Council dealt with more than 220 000 cases. The result in more than half of these is judgment by default judgment. When direct enforcement of undisputed claims is opened, the organisation of settlement councils needs to be changed. Direct enforcement of undisputed claims means that there will be no basis on which the municipalities will continue to have financial and administrative responsibility for the settlement councils. The police will be responsible for the secretariat for the future, as the lieutenant already does in more than 100 municipalities. By transferring the Secretariat of the Conciliation Councils to the police, the basis for the local presence of the soldier is also further strengthened. The main change is that the State assumes financial and administrative responsibility for the settlement councils from the municipality. It will also be such that the Ministry of Justice will continue to have direct overall professional responsibility for the Conciliation Councils. In order to make changes to the organisation that promote legal certainty and are public friendly, it is important that the organisation be comprehensive and as similar as possible throughout the country. This is why it has been important to look at how to get the most equal organisation of the domestic appliances. Today, the relationship is organised differently by, for example: in Oslo is attached to the Court of Justice. In order to get an organisation of the domestic apparatus adapted to the housing pattern, we will continue the tradition with a loner as a namsman. Historically, the seat of police and officers has also taken care of civil tasks. The civil justice of the base plane is therefore brought together with the police. The chosen model, the police model, is the best for three reasons: firstly, because it ensures closeness to the public; secondly, it ensures the necessary competence; and thirdly, costs for the choice of the police model are also borne in mind. During the work of the Judicial Committee, the issue of public opinion in the largest cities has been something we have seen in particular. Today, these officials are organized under the courts. In order to ensure the independence of the authorities in the four largest cities with regard to the police district, the majority have concluded that these officers should be directly under the Directorate of Police. This requires a change to the second paragraph of Section 16 of the Police Act. The consideration of a comprehensive solution speaks for this. With such an organisation, the Directorate of Police will continue to have a consistent responsibility for the executive tasks and the same degree of governance for all the officers. Conditions will also facilitate close cooperation between these officers and the Directorate of Police on development tasks, empowerment actions and system developments in the civil justice area on the ground. These pedigrees could constitute centres of excellence with a high level of competence in the civil tasks on which other pedigrees and miners can move. Today, there are many who have pampering skills in Norway. A problem raised is whether a collection of these duties should be carried out. We have asked the Government to look at this in more detail. However, it is important to note that the problem today is not, in practice, having more prudence, but that different bodies can enforce enforcement against the same debtors. In the future, we need to avoid that a debtor may be at risk of being paid by various negligents at the same time, which in the end means that the debtor has little left to live for each month. Today's payroll system has several shortcomings, and I have noticed that the Government in the proposition also comments on this. However, we have found it necessary to speed up coordination and to ask the Government to make a progress plan for this in the 2005 state budget. The reason for this lies in, among other things: that today, the public service function, or the calling authorities, is divided into many hands, such as borrowers, chemists, district courts, employers and state collection centres. This makes it unwieldy and heavy for the audience. New organisation of these functions will be simplified, more effective and equal across the country. In order to avoid over-indebtedness, there will in future be national coordination of all deductions from all drawees. I also refer to the Committee's position and recommend that the parties vote in favour of the proposals that are being put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e156	Odelstinget adopts tonight a reform of the civil court that has been prepared for a long time. The main changes are that the borrowers take over the secretarial function of the resolution councils and that the undisputed requirements are to go directly to enforcement. Civil justice has been dealt with in a number of investigations in recent years. It has, among other things, have been proposed to limit the jurisdiction of the Conciliation Board and to allow mediation to become voluntary, a mechanism which will result in the ordinary courts taking over more of the tasks of the Conciliation Board. The proposition and a unanimous committee state that we want to keep the settlement councils as they are today, with continued jurisdiction. We believe this is a good and inexpensive arrangement for people. Ordinary people need to settle disputes, but ordinary court proceedings cost a lot and take a long time. The strength of the settlement councils is precisely that the dispute can be resolved in an unbureaucratic, cheap and efficient way. The model of the civil justice majority in the Committee, all except the Advance Party, is in favour of, is a decentralised police model. We want the gentlemen to take over the secretarial function of the conciliators and that the man of note should deal with the undisputed requirements. This means that we strengthen the civil tasks of the gentleman. The Labour Party and the majority of the Committee consider the civil tasks of the Member State of residence to be important for maintaining a decentralised structure. Many small offices today have a relatively limited range of criminal cases, which alone will not represent enough tasks to maintain all of today’s districts. In small municipalities in District Norway, the borrower represents the only legal competence for people most, and it wants the Workers' Party to remain. This is where the Senator has a prominent guidance role that is important for a near-police. The SFH, from the Court of Justice and the Conciliation Council Cooperation Committee, has been strongly opposed to the secretarial function of the Conciliation Boards. They think it is problematic in relation to the principle of power distribution. The Committee does not share that concern. The Senate of the Police and of the People's Party has historically carried out both police and civilian tasks. We have a strong labour tradition that we believe is important to continue in a country where the population lives as widely as in Norway. If we're going to be able to have effective civil justice, it's important to have this organized in the same way throughout the country. Moreover, there is nothing new about the secretarial function of the settlement councils. Today, the borrower has this function in over 100 municipalities in the country. We have no knowledge that this has led to a lack of legal certainty, on the contrary. At the same time, we would stress that the settlement councils do not deal with criminal matters, which are the police's main task, and that the settlement councils will be the sovereigns in their resolution of tasks. It will also be the Ministry of Justice which will continue to have direct overall responsibility for the Conciliation Councils. Today, the domestic apparatus is very differently organised, distributed among laymen, municipal undercarriages and departments and underburdens and districts. The system of the sorcerers is being passed on, but so that the ordinary officials who are organized in a different way today are subject to the police. In this way, we get a uniform organization of the function. Namsmen in the largest cities are difficult organizations that it is not in the same way as in the districts that it is natural to link closer to the local police. In addition, they shall be given the secretarial responsibility of the Conciliation Councils. In Oslo too, the Conciliation Council is a large institution, with a total of nine full-time judges. The majority of the committee therefore advocates that the principal in the four largest cities should not be placed under the Chief of Police, but directly under the Directorate of Police, thereby giving a more maritime function. The Workers' Party supports the fact that the undisputed requirements must be directly enforced by the nominee. We look at today's arrangement, where these must be dealt with in the Conciliation Council, as an unnecessary formality, which in addition imposes additional costs. The undisputed requirements are those in which the parties agree on the actual situation and where there is no conflict with the correctness of the claim or the size of the claim. We believe that direct enforcement will take better care of the debtor. This also points out the debt-sacrifice alliance in their hearing, highlighting as an advantage that the legal fee to the resolution board falls away and that a person can speed up the process of wage-earnings by going to direct enforcement with the nominee. In addition, the Workers' Party believes that the new law on direct enforcement will ensure the legal certainty of the debtor in a better way than today. Firstly, it is because the request for extension is intended to provide somewhat more complete information on the requirement since the request is also required to comply with the requirements of the settlement complaint. Secondly, direct enforcement shall take place only in the territory of the debtor. Thirdly, the debtor shall be invited to take a position on the applicant’s claim. In addition, any objection made in due time against the claim shall lead to no interpretation until the matter has been dealt with by the Conciliation Council. There is also a fundamental advantage to the fact that the claimant's claim is not legally enforceable under direct enforcement, but that the defendant may dispute the claim in retrospect. This reduces the risk of misuse of the scheme. In the case of misuse of the scheme, there has been a risk from some teams that undue claims may be promoted. Among other things, it is emphasised that it is happening today that unprofessional catalogue companies promote unfair claims. In order to avoid this, the Committee proposes an amendment to the Law on Fees to enable the tax collector to claim advance payment of a legal fee in some cases. Today, we have over 800 strangers in Norway. First of all, these are the chambers of commerce, the tax authorities, the Central of the State Collection and the Central of the Social Security Agency. The majority of the Committee considers that there is a need to review the many who have reputations, and therefore asks the Government to look at the possibility of a simpler and more efficient system. What's the biggest problem here, though, is that the many novices don't coordinate. This means that debtors can get paychecks at the same time, which means that they pay more than they do. We see that there is a great need for wage coordination, and the majority therefore ask the ministry to take the necessary steps to coordinate wage trends through a joint coordination body. In conclusion, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur on the matter, who has made a formidable effort to bring together a majority so that we now have a reform of the civil justice system, which I believe is high time for us to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e195	In a situation where the police director points out that the police have a record tight budget, further civilian tasks are transferred to the police. This is how it becomes more office service and even less police service. But regardless of this, we have some other problems that we find regrettable. For the Progress Party, the distribution of power between the Judicial and the Executive Authority is important. Mixing tasks and mixing of the public gallery will weaken legal certainty and confidence in the correctness of decisions and the proper execution of decisions. The trust of our actors in the justice sector is essential for resolving problems in the least conflictable way. The assessments on which the Court of Justice was established are as applicable here as they are in relation to other parts of the judiciary and in relation to the executive. The seat of police and officers is an active part of the executive. Then it would be unfortunate to give them tasks, like being a secretariat for the conciliators. Being an organizer and an investigator for the Conciliation Boards would be a violation of the principle of independent courts. The overall responsibility of the department does not give any greater independence to the executive, rather on the contrary. The Progress Party understands that such a solution could be seen by former government councils. Based on the organisation of the courts of the time, this could make sense. The point is that we have now set up a court administration, and the courts of the first instance, too, logically belong to the same organisation. Simplifying is often for the better. The fact that people with a weak economy can avoid unnecessary public fees and fees is also a good thing. The problem arises when it may be at the expense of their legal certainty. The simplification of the process to be applied to undisputed claims is in principle in order if one assumes that all persons have a good overview of their financial situation and legal situation relating to economic requirements. On the other hand, if one acknowledges that some persons in debt cases may have serious problems in following up all the legal aspects of what is claimed to be their financial obligations, then there is a need for those persons to be properly cared for. We also know that several people who have ended up in a difficult situation can react by not dealing with mail and demands presented to them. That we should then assume that all requirements that are not disputed within a time limit are automatically real is a very serious conclusion that can have major consequences. Interestingly, SV and the Workers' Party, who usually claim to be concerned with the weakest, believe that this is something these people get to live with. It is also the case that sole proprietors and others have struggled with the fact that unprofessional companies have sent out bills in non-existent circumstances. The so-called catalogue sharks are a good example in this way. When business and resource-intensive people have a problem with accompanying and defending themselves, what about the others? If the point is to care for people with financial problems, charges may be reduced. Not dealing properly with their matters is not the solution. The theoretical possibility that the Conciliation Council may require prior payment of fees is a theoretical aid for these people. The effect would probably be that if there are individuals who file a claim, it is those who have to pay the fees, because the public wants to make sure that the money comes in, and so is afraid that the private themselves do not pay. The coordination of the recovery of claims is an advantage. There will also be an advantage in coordinating migrations, etc. We believe that this can best be achieved by coordinating the duties of the man in charge, perhaps also in a central context. This is what we want to know. In the light of all these concerns, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party to send the matter back to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e221	The representative, André Kukkestad, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e224	I want to focus primarily on the victims of the debt and on the need for new jobs to serve the role of the civil servant after the changes that SV is part of. Representatives Gunn Karin Gjul and Carsten Dybevig have also explained well what finally became SV's view in this rather difficult matter, and I would like to highlight the representative Gjul's reference to the conciliatory councils as a very good, efficient and inexpensive arrangement that we will ensure for the future, as well as her mention of the solution chosen for the four largest cities. I'm going to be pretty short. We in SV are very pleased that we have had the opportunity to coordinate the pay lines carried out by the non-profits and the non-profits. The debt-sacrifice alliance has long pointed out that many debtors are in fact not allowed to retain "what is reasonably needed for the maintenance of the debtor and the debtor's household", cf. Coverage Act § 2-7. This is an unsustainable situation, and this is particularly serious when children are also affected. The newspaper had a report on what can happen to a family when the features are not coordinated between the different officials. What's bad is that this isn't done before. I'll quote two paragraphs from that report: "But within the joint coordinating body is in place, probably Per-Arne Westerberg has lost his home. Since he became unemployed in 1987, his financial situation has worsened every year. - The various money deposits neither ask me nor each other if I am left with enough money to live off. It's very difficult, and when I discuss this with them, they make me feel that I don't have a case. There's no help to get." This tells Per-Arne Westerberg to the Newspaper. The progress plan for the coordinating body shall be drawn up in the budget proposal for 2005. I expect the Council of State to see the seriousness of this matter and to give priority to the work on it. Finally, I would like to make the majority point on page 9 of the vote, which reads as follows: "The majority refers to the fact that the proposed system of direct recovery of undisputed claims will lead to a significant increase in the number of cases for the domestic appliance. The case-handling time of the man in Oslo is today defined as being up-to-date. Several pedagogical departments have expressed concern that such an increase in cases should lead to a lot of extra work and subsequent large residues. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the number of posts is sufficient to avoid these residues. Long processing times and large residues would be contrary to the intention of the proposal to speed up recovery, and this would lead to a risk of illegal debt collection. Based on an estimate of an increase in outlays to a site between 330 000 and 390000 cases, increased resources are needed to establish new outlaw positions to maintain the current procedure. It is also important to ensure that sufficient resources are made available to acquire the necessary knowledge to carry out this job, both for the already existing officials and for those who are to fill the new posts." This is a very important remark for us and for the majority. In the end, I would like to join in the praise given by the representative Gunn Karin Gjul to the case rapporteur, Carsten Dybevig. He has done an excellent job, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e251	The civil justice of the base plane is simply the conciliatory councils, the namsman's function, the prosecuting function and some other legal activities carried out at the level of the tribunals. The organisation of civil justice on the basic level has been under assessment for many years and there has been a broad consensus that a final clarification is needed. The Conciliation Councils are formally courts and, as a general rule, are the first instance in civil matters. They treat around 250,000 cases a year. There is one settlement council in each municipality, and the municipalities have the financial and administrative responsibility. Most of the cases in the Conciliation Board are curative debt collection cases where the debtor does not object to the claim. They are brought in because judgment is a prerequisite for enforcement. In order to reduce the costs of the parties, it is proposed that invoices, etc., be provided. shall be the basis for requesting enforcement. Only if the debtor objects shall the matter be dealt with in the Conciliation Board. Direct enforcement will result in the disappearance of many of the cases requiring the least effort in the resolution board. There is no longer any basis for self-financing municipal settlement councils. The Christian People's Party refers to the main considerations set out in the proposition that the direct recovery of undisputed claims should be implemented. We point in particular to the fact that direct recovery by the tax collector is an advantage for those who, for various reasons, are unable to meet in the Conciliation Board or otherwise lose the right to object. In the view of the majority of the committee, the contact that the civil servant will have with the debtor during an extension matter increases the likelihood that legitimate objections will reach and be dealt with. Direct enforcement will ensure the actual legal certainty of the debtor in a much better way. Furthermore, we would point out that in many cases the direct enforcement of undisputed claims will reduce the cost of debts. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the organisation of civil justice on the basic plane is becoming as comprehensive and as similar as possible throughout the country. Today, the pedagogical apparatus is very differently organised, distributed among surveyors, municipal undercarriages and subdistricts. I refer in particular to the objections raised regarding the proposal on the organisation of the namsman in Oslo. Districts should have equal leveling, and we therefore agree that, for reasons of principle, the vicar should be separated from the court even in Oslo. At the same time, it is important to have an organisational model that fits the country’s housing patterns. The Christian People's Party indicates that the police are the most decentralised state agency. This gives a closeness to the audience that must not be weakened. By also transferring the Secretariat of the Conciliation Councils to the police, the basis for the local presence of the soldier is further strengthened. Even today, the secretarial services of more than 100 municipalities are provided by the general public, and after the majority experience, this has not led to any lack of legal certainty. The settlement councils do not deal with criminal matters, which are the police's main task, and the settlement councils will be the sovereigns when it comes to resolving their tasks. The Ministry of Justice shall continue to have direct overall professional responsibility for the Conciliation Councils. The daily lives of men must continue to be more than blue light and handcuffs. It will help to ensure the location and function of the establishment in the local environment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e266	The central party shall form part of the majority of the Committee as regards the organisation of civil justice on the basic plane. On one point, however, the Centre Party disagrees with the Committee. This concerns the proposals for the amendments to Section 16 of the Police Act. The majority of the committee writes in the setting on page 11, first column: "With the proposal put forward by the Ministry, a good basis for implementing phase II of police reform will be found, without the need to merge the districts of civil servants." At the same time, the same majority have the following proposals for amendments to the Police Act § 16: "Lensmann districts and districts shall comprise one or more entire municipalities." If the observations of this majority are to be in accordance with the majority's proposal, it shall be subject to the absence of any number of offices within the same municipality. But that's actually the case in some municipalities. As far as the Senterpartie has brought on the clean, today we have at least three municipalities where there are several county councillors. This applies to: Ringsaker municipality in Hedmark, with Moelv and Brumunddal lensmann district Fredrikstad, with Onsøy, Kråkerøy/Rolvsøy and Borge lensmann district Bergen, with Fana, Laksevåg and Åsane/Arna lensmann district In this context, the Centre Party in this case proposes to delete the sentence that says, "The county districts and the county councils shall cover one or more entire municipalities." The size may not, without further consideration, be limited to the above-mentioned districts of civil servants. The central party will also warn against introducing a system in which, in the event of future merger of local authorities, it will also automatically have to merge the respective county councils. The need for police and other services that lie under the responsibility of a local community member is in no way removed even if the formal municipal governance structure should be changed. Thus, the adopted and demarcated "closer police system" will continue to be justified, as people will continue to live and work in their communities. This must also be essential in determining the question of merging the relevant County Governments. A specific assessment must then be made on the basis of the need and not introduce a legislative provision which prevents such an assessment. I bring this up with the proposal that I referred to in the post, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e302	The representative, Ola D. Glötvold, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e306	The proposal to reorganise civil justice on the basic level is being incorporated into a series of important reforms in the justice sector in recent years. "The civil plain on the ground plane" means the conciliatory councils, the officers' function, the testimonial function and some other tasks carried out at the level of the tribunals. The Committee has stressed the importance of ensuring the legal certainty of the justice sector to individuals in a good way and that it appears to be effective and public friendly. This has also been a guiding factor in the design of the Government's legislative proposals. The proposal for the direct enforcement of undisputed claims, which is over ten years old, shall be finally implemented. Direct enforcement, as the Government and the majority of the Committee sees it, will strengthen the actual legal certainty of the debtors. At the same time, the parties will reduce costs and the overall duration of proceedings will be shorter. The scheme will involve a shift of action from the Conciliation Board to the Civil Service Officer, for which there will be no room in today's civil justice organisation on the ground plane. It is important for me to stress that the Conciliation Board as an institution will remain unchanged. The Conciliation Board shall remain in each municipality, and the members shall be elected by the local council, which is now. The State assumes financial and administrative responsibility for the settlement councils and the secretariat is added to the principal. In order to ensure that the officials of the Secretariat are fully independent of the parties to the disputes and are also considered to be fully independent, the grantor or others at the Secretariat shall no longer be able to represent any party to the settlement board. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the proposal for organisation in general. The uniform organisation of overall responsibility is maintained, even though the powers of the four largest cities are directly placed under the Directorate of Police to ensure their independence from the police district. In addition to the general officials, there are a number of bodies with the competence of officials. I have noted the Committee's wish for a review of efficiency and simplification in this area. I have also noted that the Committee is asking for a progress plan to be presented in the 2005 state budget for the need for wage coordination. In order to strengthen the legal certainty of the settlement procedure, I will consider, in accordance with the Committee's wishes, an amendment to the settlement complaint notification rules. Let me also stress that with the reform that is being carried out here, it is the legal tradition in Norway that is linked to the tradition of soldiers, which is guaranteed. It's a tradition that's close to people in civil matters. It's a tradition that, together with the conciliators, represents close contact. At the same time, the organisation chosen by the Committee means that this side of the function of a member and the function of a civil servant, which is also part of the Norwegian police force, provides a basis for a continued decentralised structure in the field of the action of a member of the public and police. This is very important, and it also maintains the starting point for a police role that is about something more than the fact that the police have criminal law as their sole subject. It underlines a police role with closeness to the community, a police role that has been very important, and which has been known by many as very important and fundamental and sympathetic, among other things. in relation to the negligent's efforts to secure the rights and practicalities of victims of debt through what victims of debt have been exposed to from the beginning of the 1990s. Finally, let me express satisfaction with the fact that the many interdependent questions about how civil justice on the basic plane is to be organised in the future are now finally clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e332	I have understood it so that the Council of State does not see any problems in interfering with police and judicial authorities. But when it comes to the issue of economics: when the police director has gone out and said that the current police budget is the toughest over time, can the Council of State guarantee that the Government will propose a budget that will cover this additional expenditure for the police, so that we do not get an even more weakened police authority in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e337	The representative Kukkestad had a brief visit to his own main argument on legal certainty. I'll stay with you. What we're talking about here are civil matters. We're talking about things that up to now have been handled through the officers' function, and things that are handled through the conciliators' councils. This gives a good contact with a view to resolving matters, because the issues are seen in their social context. And just seeing these things in their social context is part of the legal tradition that we, among other things, are. have also been linked to mediation in Norway, outside the traditional legal system. I would like to stress that this is important. With regard to the financing of the input into the civil function here, it is financed on a fee basis. It will ensure the activity through the activity that is there. And should unforeseen circumstances arise, we will be able to correct it in time before the 2006 budget, when this is to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e346	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e349	This case that Odelstinget is dealing with today has not received the attention it deserves. In my view, the reorganisation that is now taking place within the civil justice framework of the base plane is very important. In short, in my view, it means that on the one hand we ensure a local anchoring, while on the other hand we streamline and make the organisation more coherent. The work on these changes has been going on for a while, perhaps for a long time, but the changes will only be adopted today. I am pleased that, through the work of the Committee, we have developed a position which has been supported by a large majority of the members of the Committee. I am well aware of the solid work done and done by the police and officers' seat within the civil court on the ground plane. Now that there is a majority of the Government's proposal to base the police model, this is what we in the Right support. It's enough for us to point out what was said in the Budget-Inst. S. No 4 for 2003-2004 on the borrower and proximity to the public, on service, knowledge, etc. We are very pleased that the Ministry of Justice has so quickly followed up the Committee's comment in that budget statement on several service locations within the same holding. In my view, one makes clear that one introduces the concept of a "service unit" so that one has a comprehensive word for a county office or police station, where, in addition to the head office or main station, police posts are established elsewhere in the district. The most important thing for the public is the service unit structure itself and should therefore be determined by the King. The structure of the holding is, to a greater extent, an internal administrative matter and may be set at a lower level. With the Government's proposals to which we are now joining, we will find a good basis for implementing phase II of the police reform, without having to merge the county councils. The right also adheres to the cleanups using the names and names we are now making. Units with both police and judicial functions shall be known as LENs, units with only police duties of police station, and units with only civilian functions of law enforcement. In this way, the name will give people clear information about what the unit's tasks are. The term "members' office" has a long tradition of designating precisely units that have both types of tasks. I would also like to point out that the gentlemen are already working as a secretariat for a great many conciliation councils. Furthermore, I would like to show that the loner is already working as a namsman, which is a very good experience. For the future, the officers' function will be brought together under the police, with the exception of the four largest cities in the country, where it will be subject to the Police Directorate. This last solution one has come up during the committee's discussion, I think will be good. The reorganisation we are adopting today is important for everyone - for those who are in conflict with the neighbor, and for those who are indebted or creditor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e366	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 576]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e382	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - That's to look at as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e389	From 1 September this year, the Introduction Act becomes mandatory for all municipalities, i.e. all newly arrived immigrants residing or residing in a municipality by agreement between the municipality and the UDI are entitled to participate in the new introduction scheme. It's positive. It will give those participating in the scheme a greater opportunity to get into work and participate in society elsewhere. And when we know that the unemployment rates for immigrants are three times as high as the unemployment rates in general, this bet is absolutely necessary-- and it's about time it comes. It is good that the government has followed up the majority of the Storting saying that the right and obligation to make such an offer to the municipalities is that there is an agreement between the UDI and the municipality about him. There are many reasons why it is important to clarify this today. We have heard on the radio today that eight out of ten municipalities are unable to pay off their debts, and that every fourth municipality is on the "blacklist", i.e. they are overruled by the State because of poor finances. At the same time, the State cannot impose even more tasks on municipalities without these tasks being fully financed. The Introduction Act is not fully funded. It has been pointed out several times by the Working Party, SV and the Center Party, also in this setting. For this reason, a majority of the Committee, all but the government parties, opposes the right to participate in the introduction scheme for any person who finds a dwelling on his own. We believe that if the law were to allow it, we would introduce a completely new settlement scheme here in the country where very many would have moved to Oslo and other central places. The majority believe that today's settlement system works. The majority have confidence in the municipalities and will be able to decide whether there are others in addition to those required by law who will be given the same offer. The municipalities know just as well as we do at Stortinget what the benefits of such an introduction scheme are for the individual immigrants, but also for the municipality in the long term. We are confident that the municipalities will do as best they can, but it should not be for the municipalities as long as the money is not included, says the Workers' Party, SV and the Senterpartiet. What the Progress Party believes is not as good to understand, but I expect representatives from the party to explain it later. The government also states in the bill that it will consider reducing the integration grant for self-residents who are not offered an introduction programme. It will not be evaluated by the Government. Already now a joint committee, including the government parties, says no to this. It should be a goal and a wish for all the parties that the municipalities arranged for settlement to a somewhat faster extent than what is happening today. However, in this area, the Committee disagrees on why municipalities are somewhat lagging behind in achieving the targets that are needed. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party believe that there are many reasons why municipalities do not achieve their goals and have an understanding of them. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are currently completely ignoring the problems of the municipalities. The last thing now is the government's proposal for a new arrangement for those who have short residence here in the country, - as I said, not just immigrants - and who are so old that they don't come to work, but depend on social assistance from the municipality. The introduction law, which will be mandatory from the harvest, will be a good step in the right direction to improve the integration of immigrants in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e413	I assume that the law on the introduction arrangements for new arrivals, the Introduction Act, was adopted by the Stortinget on 12 June 2003 and entered into force on 1 September of the same year as a voluntary scheme. From 1 September 2004, the law will be mandatory for all municipalities in the country. The aim of the law is to strengthen the opportunities for newcomers to participate in professional and social life and to provide municipalities with a better legal framework for their integration work with newcomers. During the examination of Ot.prp by the Municipal Committee. No 28 for 2002-2003, the majority of the Committee pointed out that today’s housing model was to be based on managed housing. In the light of the request decision of the Grand Duchy on 16 June 2003, the Ministry of Proposition proposes a clarification in the second paragraph of Section 2 of the Introduction Act, so that it is clear from the legal text that the right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme only apply to newly arrived immigrants residing under a specific agreement between the Foreign Authorities and the Municipality. Following the proposal, it is only when there is a specific settlement agreement that the municipalities will be obliged to do so. The proposal does not involve any modification of the introduction system itself, as regulated by the Introduction Act. It's the settlement question that's here the central theme. Both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party were opposed to overthrowing the settlement. It is almost that you can wonder if everyone is taking it completely inward that people who are legally staying in Norway can freely live where they want to. This right is a central principle such as: is established in international human rights conventions. It is therefore amazing that not everyone recognises this and facilitates the best possible conditions. Another factor is that municipalities receive a State integration grant for persons covered by the Introduction Act § 2. However, it is not a condition for the payment of the grant that he is offered an introduction programme under the Introduction Act. The purpose of the law on the introduction of new arrivals for immigrants is, inter alia, to: to strengthen the opportunities for participation of newcomers in professional and social life. An introduction system is a very good starting point for good integration. It may then seem that the majority of the committee almost wants to punish them as volunteers and by their own means settle in a municipality. These will therefore not receive the help of the dragon that an introduction programme will be. The Government has followed up the Storting decision to limit the right to an introduction programme to residents by agreement between the municipalities and the UDI. From the right, we will continue to argue that the government's original proposal of 2003 would have stimulated the refugees more to active self-employment rather than passively sitting on reception and waiting to settle in a municipality. With the debate on asylum seekers fresh in memory, it is difficult to understand that the majority of the municipal committee prefers parents and children to sit in reception, rather than parents with children who actively and by their own means seek to reach a municipality as quickly as possible. I am pleased that the Municipal Committee here in a general position recommends the Government's proposal for amendments to the Introduction Act and the Foreign Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e430	Ot. pp. No 30 is not a proposition that provides the basis for any major discussion. The government is only following up on the decision of the Grand Duchy's request. We think that is satisfactory. Based on the comments and what has been said, I see and hear that the thoughts of the law of introduction, and especially when we have been able to get a mandatory law of introduction, where Norwegian training is now being introduced as a coercion from the harvest, get a lot of homage from all the political parties. I think that's great. I had actually thought that I would take a whole series of quotes from the various political parties in connection with all the times the Progress Party has proposed this in the Stortinge in the past and was criticized for stigmatizing and what is worse. I'll leave it, because I think it's important to be positive. I think it was the representative Signe Eye who was a little uncertain about where the Progress Party stood in this matter. I think it's pretty clear from the setting that we also support the proposition. We also have our own proposal. I think it is very important that the Storting joins that proposal, because it is important that we now begin to see the relationship between the settlement of refugees in the municipalities and the establishment of asylum facilities in the municipalities. I also listened very interestedly to the comments of the representative Hogsnes. He referred to those who live in reception, and then I understand that he is talking about asylum seekers. It can't be that he's talking about refugees who are in reception, because we all have a goal that those who have stayed in Norway and are considered refugees should be settled in a municipality and not in a reception. Then they will receive an offer, at least if the municipality is set to do so. But it just shows how difficult it is to deal with this with the settlement of refugees while establishing large receptions, especially in small municipalities. The population of a municipality is not able to see, in all contexts, and perhaps not the local politicians, the difference between the fact that an immigrant has been accommodated and the fact that an asylum seeker still has an application for treatment. There's a big difference between that and that. That is why I think the proposal that the Progress Party is dealing with here is very important. We ask the government to come back with a case, so that we can see this in a larger context. I am a little surprised when the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's comment in the adjustment states that the housing arrangements are working properly. It doesn't do that at all. I listened to the representative Eye, who said that many municipalities have financial problems, and that in recent times many municipalities have almost sat on their backs in relation to receiving more refugees. We can't put the refugees around the municipalities. This, and that there are strong reactions around the whole country to the establishment of asylum recipients, should mean that the settlement system is not satisfactory. That's why I think it's a little strange that it's made in the comment of the majority of the committee. I had really hoped that at least the Workers' Party, which has been together with the Advance Party earlier on the settlement of asylum seekers, was interested in our getting a case on this, so that we could clear up the misunderstandings that exist not only here in the house, but also around the municipalities. As I said, like the majority, we're very skeptical that the government and government parties are very concerned about free housing, as they speak for. We don't have much experience with it yet in Norway, at least not surveys that show it, but we have studies from Sweden and Denmark that show how problematic it can be if we get that kind of free residence. I would strongly warn against that at this stage. Of course, this will be normalized gradually. Once these refugees have been in Norway for a long time, and have been included and integrated into the Norwegian community, this will go on its own. It's not like they're going on an introduction program for 10 and 15 years. This program is blocking late or later. Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e447	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e450	I would just like to start by saying a little something to the Party of Advancers' Collision of asylum seekers and the settlement system, which I think is completely incomprehensible. The Progress Party is here promoting a proposal that they would like to see this in context - what it means now. What it really means is also not very well clarified, nor are there any good arguments for how to do it. In general, I believe that this is a bad proposal. When Per Sandberg criticises the settlement system, he points out that we do not all live. That's absolutely right. We've got a lot of things to do. problems with having a good deal of solitude because the municipalities do not make it entirely compatible with the wishes they have for whom to live. The first signe eye said, was that some of it might not be compensated well enough for. There may be some people who have mental problems, who have other complex problems that make municipalities feel that it will be difficult to accept exactly these. The second signe eye took up was that the general municipal economy is too poor, and that the government is also adding up next year to a real decline in the municipal economy. We can discuss this during the local economic debate. That's at least our perception of it. I am very pleased that the municipal minister has answered some of these questions in connection with the revised national budget, where she among other things. alerts a review of parts of the settlement scheme, based on the level of the integration grant. We believe that during a transitional period, the integration grant will be too small before the positive economic consequences of the introduction programme come to an end. That is what we mean, and we disagree. The government says that they will come back to this in the next time they sit with the local government sector and look at the real costs. We think that's too late, and that's why we would have an increase already now. Enough about that, aside from that. What we're doing now is patching up the law of introduction and preparing the enormous and positive reform, we're creating an introduction programming system that has a unanimous expansion behind it. One of the things we didn't agree on was whether all the municipalities in the country should be obliged to give an introduction program. What I'm a little surprised at in Hans Kristian Hogsnes' posts is that he doesn't take inward that all the municipalities have a duty to give such an introduction program. Opening up a free settlement will make it possible for municipalities which are not initially prepared to provide an introduction programme to be forced to do so. It is not a particularly favourable system for ensuring predictability for municipalities, nor is it a favourable system for ensuring continuity. The fact that people can jump out of the introduction program and just move to somewhere else is also not favourable in relation to this. That's what's the reason why the majority votes against. It is a proper majority, which also consists of the Progress Party. But I think it's funny that the government fraction doesn't take it inward. Everyone has the right to move wherever they want. No one is preventing them, but they don't have the right to an introduction program if they move. When we decide to fall-- and now I anticipate the events' time-- Ot.prp. No 50 for 2003-2004, which is entitled to Norwegian education and training, if it is done as the Government will, it will show that everyone will be entitled to Norwegian training, but they will not be entitled to an introduction programme. So this is to ensure the continuity of the individual and of the municipality. However, it is a dilemma that we have pointed out, and it is: What happens if the municipality offers a terrible programme? Or what happens if a single person has a great need to move, for example. for family or other reasons? Wouldn't this be a dilemma? Well, it will, obviously. That's why we've asked the government to follow up just this and investigate how many people there are who are moving in this way, and who are losing justice, and who are not getting the follow-up that we want them to get, and what is happening to them. I think some municipalities will simply phase into the program, but some municipalities, large municipalities, for example, might wait until they see how this goes, if they can follow up on them before they decide. So there are possibilities for the municipalities to agree on this move. So I think it's going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e469	It was very good to hear Heikki Holmås' definition of "a proper majority". The fact that it includes the Progress Party was worth noting. The government has followed up the multiple requests for who to be eligible for the introduction program. Of course it is. In most cases, there are arguments for and against. The majority focusses on local authorities' ability to control and manage, and this has been facilitated by the Government. The government has put emphasis on the free right of establishment people actually have all over the country, and tried to combine it with the fact that most of the people who need it are going to be able to review the introduction program and become integrated, get to work. It was the starting point of the Government. Now, of course, the Christian People's Party and the government party here are pragmatic. As representatives of a minority government, we have to be, otherwise it would just be missing. With the flexibility that the municipalities have, we believe in the Christian People's Party that we can manage to beat two flies in one taste. Catastrophe won't happen. I agree with the last speaker, Heikki Holmås, in. Nothing is better than to combine liberty with a certain permissiveness. Therefore, I recommend the setting as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e476	The centre party is pleased that the introduction programme will be mandatory from 1 September, and we are also satisfied with the arrangements that this now receives, which will be included here. We believe that this combination of Norwegian education, work training and social skills will contribute to better integration. It also shows the tests that have been performed. The case spokesperson has done quite well for what is here plurality and minority, and I just want to stress to the ministry and to the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party that this is also a cost measure. We don't think from the Center Party's point of view that it's very wise for the Government, with the close contact that has been with KS, with the work that has been done to get a joint effort, to get a good construction arrangement, not to go into the calculation that KS is now presenting about what this costs. So there's a gap of $27,000 per. person between the level of the integration premium on which the Calculation Committee has concluded and the level of Government with the support of the Progress Party. Then there is no doubt that there are some other measures that need to be taken here. Clearly, a tight community economy means a lot about how municipalities can facilitate construction. Completely openbert means their Husbank's hitting a lot. It's amazing that the government doesn't take over the meaning of the housing supplement here to secure enough and useful housing. I would also like to focus on a small item in the ministry's budget, on local integration measures, on local organisations. So there are some groupings, both central organisations and local groups, that make a very valuable contribution to integration. Over time, there have been far greater applications than the small millions that the ministry has found room for. There could be one with modest means for further good contact, good local arrangements that would strengthen integration. There is something for the Council of State to bring with it when it is currently running on the 2005 budget. Finally, let me just underline from the Center Party's side that we think it's quite contradictory that the Government and UDI on the one hand sometimes speak in capital letters that the municipalities do not follow when it comes to building, while not taking the signals that come from the municipalities both when it comes to municipal economy, the Husbank's framework and when it comes to the size of the integration bill. Otherwise, the Central Party will of course support the current setting. We were part of the multiple that made the order that resulted in Ot. pp. No 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e493	The odelstingsproposition that is being discussed today is, in particular, a currant, small matter, in the sense that it is legal to review and promote a proposal that the Stortinget adopted as a request decision to the Government, but that we, as we consider, felt had to be made in the form of a legal text, and that we therefore had to come back to the Stortinget with. I would like to make some comments on some of the things that have been said in the debate. Firstly, I will also admit that the very question of who would be inside and outside the circuit, who would get the introduction order, has been a difficult balance in the department. There is good reason to be able to discuss the fact that the starting point should be that the municipalities have control, but for our part, the most important thing was that when we introduced the introduction system, we tried to create a system that would stop the clientization of those who lived around, or who moved to Norway, from living on social assistance to another integration scheme, which was qualifying, where taxes were paid and it was tidy. That was the purpose of all the trials we started. The purpose was not to friend people for social assistance. We then thought that the purpose underlying the introduction system was more important than the control of the individual municipality, but we made our balance. We did that because we thought that one of the most important things we can do is encourage more people to do themselves, including. by the fact that several of those who had to sit for a long time and wait for a municipality of residence were able to obtain a dwelling itself, partly to get into work, that they should in some way be motivated to do so. It's not a free settlement. There's pretty big barriers to it. This is not the Swedish model of how asylum recipients are organised. It's not possible to draw parallels to other places. It's a small group, but there's someone doing this every year. What we've been afraid of, is that what now gets the majority, if we were to go into the original, would deactivate those people who are actually perhaps the most resource-powerful to do something with their own destiny when they wait so long for settlement. We have to bring that cost with us. We made a choice, and the population has made a different choice. I have full respect for that, but you're introducing some kind of syllable, which is kind of surprising from some parties. In the last period, we discussed a proposal from the Progress Party where the Progress Party believed that it should not be allowed to change the municipality, at least in the first years, when the integration grant was awarded, and the Progress Party was alone about it. The right stood in an intermediate position by the fact that we had to be a little bit tougher about sending them back again, and the other people significantly criticized that one should not get the kind of freedom of choice as individuals. So here, probably, the positions and ideology change considerably, maybe a little bit in relation to who is promoting the proposals. I think that's what the Progress Party will be allowed to do, that it might be that the argument is a little bit different then. Let me just comment on two things that the rapporteur said, which really is not about the content of the matter. Among other things, she said: that it was said today on the radio that eight out of ten municipalities were unable to service their debts. It has not been said on the radio today, nor is it a fact. Eight out of ten municipalities on the Robek list are standing there for years because they can't do anything about it. But there's a fairly large proportion going out, and a new share coming in. We probably have a chronic problem because there are 60 municipalities in this country that have a very difficult economy over time. There are 60 municipalities that actually got their biggest financial problems at the end of the 1990s, and where it's important to go in and look at the substance of the individual municipalities if they can't get out of the problem. But we're also going to be very happy that every year in the last few years there have been between 10 and 17 municipalities out of this list. It's actually a movement, and you can handle the municipality's economy when you first see that things are going worse. The second was the small visit that came in a funeral sentence, which is what has been said about the government's proposal for a scheme to relieve those who have lived and who have a short service period, which is now at the hearing. I would like to remind you that some of the choices made by the Government in relation to that issue are not about building new welfare schemes, with a more transparent border vis-à-vis the EEA, which seem attractive, and which need to be clearly defined. Before we make ourselves judges of the proposals that have been made, in relation to how the municipalities have to experience it, we must also weigh our choice of such arrangements in relation to how they operate with free movement across borders. We've had other discussions about that exact relationship. This eventually means that we have to look at how we design the welfare systems. We've done that in that context, and we've made a system that's going to be robust, where you're also going to get a freer movement of labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e519	A prerequisite for the success of the Introduction Act is that municipalities have financial room for action to implement the intentions of the law. Unfortunately, we already see that the Government is not even willing to complete the scheme, neither in terms of increased costs for the municipalities of the establishment scheme, nor in terms of the real costs of the integration grant to cover. Also, the Council of State has now sent out to the hearing a proposal to ensure that persons with short residence in Norway receive an old-age pension and that they are entitled to a new state social benefit. That's all right, because we've been asking for that for quite some time now, but it's quite surprising when you can now read that this system is to be financed by attracting the municipalities for funds they've used for social assistance for this group. Does the Minister of State therefore believe that these conditions contribute to the desire of municipalities to receive more refugees and asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e531	Nor should we be surprised that over the last two years, we've been giving $30 million. to projects relating to the establishment and build-up of competences linked to the introduction of the introduction system, which means that the development of skills and the establishment of new ones is actually financed by resources in most municipalities other than those resulting from the integration grant. There is currently work on a review of actual expenditure, related to what is needed in relation to the establishment of the introduction system. When we find out the actual expenditure and not just preliminary calculations from a stakeholder organisation, we come back to an assessment of it in the context of the budget, as we have said all along. Let me then say in relation to the last arrangement: every time we put in place a scheme in which the state initially assumes expenditure that is currently on the municipal budgets, then the further growth - and that growth is going to be great in the years to come - will be on the state budget instead of on the municipal budgets. This is because, among other things, within the systems, these expenditures are within the scope of the transfer of income to municipalities today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e540	I just want to say first to the Council of State that we in the Progress Party are still at our primary desire for restrictions on movements. But we have to go slowly, and it looks like it works. I have a challenge for the Council of State. The representative Holmås said in his post earlier today that I was driving with a sort of seamstress. I'd like to challenge the Council of State on that too. Does not the Council of State also see that there may be a certain connection with the settlement of refugees in the municipalities and those municipalities which have large asylum reception facilities? Is there no correlation with the fact that the municipalities can receive additional costs because they have an asylum reception? Is there no link between the settlement of asylum seekers in a municipality and the settlement of refugees? Is there no correlation between the number of refugees accepted by municipalities and the number of asylum seekers who also need to benefit from the municipal service provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e547	First, I just want to say one thing. In the vote, the Progress Party has proposed a new decision to investigate these issues and come back with housing models and other. I would like to remind you that, in the revised national budget, we have now been debating four petitions that have partly been by a cross-cutting majority and partly have had different premises relating to exactly the same issues. I think it would be extremely impeccable if the Stortinge were to decide today once again that we should make something, without any particularly strong instructions as to what the Stortinge would have left of answers, for now we have made a statement in the revised national budget. So to the question of whether there is a connection between residence and asylum recipients. At the moment, I think it's quite different. Asylum recipients today have been overrepresented in some areas, in so-called pig-grown areas of the country. And the housing model now settles against more central strokes than before. It is therefore not clear that there is an overrepresentation of residence in the municipalities in which the asylum recipients are located.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e554	I see clearly, as I pointed out in my post, exactly that dilemma that lies there in relation to the extent to which the rights should follow one or not when a mover. But I would like to stress that from our point of view, the reason we've changed our position in relation to this particular thing is that the individual has a right to the municipality. And then we think it is reasonable to ensure that this is planned in the municipalities that there is some predictability. But then I assume -- and I'm really assuming that the Council of State will also follow up -- that the UDI is trying to get as good a communication as possible between the municipalities, so that it is actually possible for people to move over if they need it, and that they are developing some arrangements there. But I am sure that the Council of State would also agree would be the best. It's obvious, since she really wants a different decision, so that's okay. But then to the other. The government parties, together with the Workers' Party in the revised national budget, have supported further tightening of the housing allowance, despite the fact that this is one thing that she acknowledges that the municipalities believe is important. Does the Council of State think it will be easier or more difficult to settle in the municipalities with this new cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e563	I agree that there is a new right in the form of the introduction scheme. But it is clear that even during today's law, people who live and have the right to be in Norway have rights in the municipality to which they move, if they cannot be returned to their municipality of origin. That position was SV very clear in the previous ageing period. For example, at that time you had: entitlement to social assistance. You were entitled to the same relief measures that others have. There is clearly another right grip around the introduction law, but it was not without rights in the period before. When it comes to the question of whether less money on the grants will cause difficulties with the housing, I do not hide the fact that the housing allowance can be considered psychological in that way. However, as far as the entry of applications is concerned this year, it has fallen compared to recent years. Nor has it been an important point for municipalities to point to that particular area. And we have, among other things, improved the housing support system now in several stages, which means that we have other targeted housing measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e570	It's a good thing that before someone can get a bump, one has to have a place to bow. It is also true that the frame for an addition tells us something about the possibility to snap when a search is performed. So I hope that the Council of State will take a proper check on the housing allowance when it comes to drafting the 2004 budget. And then I'll ask her to comment on something closer to the dependency that local authorities come into when they're going to make sure that they have a mandatory program with different agencies that are interested in integration into municipalities. There are good integration models that could be transferred from voluntary holding, such as the Vard model in Haugesund, that relate to the football field, and Christian Intercultural Work, that arranges cultural evenings, homework and much more. Does she want to go through carefully what the application is like in this field, to increase if possible by a few million?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e577	The representative Meltveit Kleppa is now making the mistake of connecting the possibility of having a dwelling with the housing allowance. The housing allowance is a grant that allows municipalities to buy dwellings. It is not the same as not being available if you do not have housing allowances and actually get access to a dwelling in the usual rental market within the usual housing stock. And it'll be easier to manage the costs for the municipality at the moment you have housing support for these people, which is expanded in the context of the introduction of the law, because then you have stability related to the payment. What has been our message in connection with the housing announcement is that it is important to see that it is not necessarily the purchase of housing that is the restriction for municipalities, but to be sure that you get good payment arrangements related to it. That's why I don't think it's such an addiction that was mentioned here. On the second question, yes, we look at all of our grants relating to non-governmental organisations and others. But in addition to those who are on our budget, there are, among other things, the means available to the Ministry of Children and the Family also targeted the multicultural and integration work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e586	There was something the Council of State said in a previous row here, in an attack on the proposal of the Progress Party in the vote, which I would like the Council of State to explain a little more. She says that there are four request decisions also revised, and that there may be a limited number of such proposals that can be promoted. I would like to ask the Council of State to explain where there is a request decision which specifically asks the Government to look at the relationship between the settlement of refugees in municipalities where there are also particularly many asylum seekers, either in reception or in decentralised reception, i.e. where they are in competition with refugees for housing and services from the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e591	It was adopted last year and in connection with the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs, by a slightly different majority, by four different decision-making decisions concerning either the establishment of asylum-seekers or the functioning of the housing model, and a presentation of the government's policies and the changes and areas we are looking at in relation to the revised national budget. With regard to having a separate case that is just about the challenges that lie in the municipalities that are both going to live and have asylum receptions, I have to say that the substance of it is covered, among other things. in the discussion on the host municipality grant and the possibility of making changes to it also relating to the revised national budget. It is quite right that none of the request decisions are completely identical to the proposal being promoted today, but it is in a way the same topic. And maybe it would have been a good idea if you gave a little more specific order if you wanted new investigations on where you want to go, because among the previous decisions were, among other things, a decision that both said we should not spend more money, and that it should be voluntary anyway. Then it becomes a little difficult to find something new.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e601	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e606	I'm probably considered a meeting plague, but I can almost not believe that the Council of State does not take seriously the situation that is gradually in many municipalities. We have between 18,000 and 19,000 people living in reception. We have extreme situations in some municipalities. I could have mentioned the name, I shouldn't do that, but I know a lot of municipalities that have difficult receptions, and that voluntarily and sincerely want to accept refugees to remedy the situation with regard to their settlements, but who seem to have to say no because they already have major challenges in the first place with regard to the refugees they have, and in addition have asylum recipients that are actually being extended. The situation is getting worse and worse, because the government is not able to reduce the number of people in reception. It's increasing! That the Council of State does not see a connection between this and wants to do something about it in the form of a matter of its own, I find it strange. Then I also want to say - even if we are doing the municipal proposition in the committee - especially to the Workers' Party, which is now using the argument about poor municipal economy in these kinds of things: it doesn't get very credible when the Workers' Party repeatedly points to a miserable municipal economy at a time when you can talk about days since the Workers' Party said no to more funds to the municipal sector. The working party had the full opportunity to get more money for the municipal sector in the revised budget. But they said no and went into an agreement with the Government. For me, this means that the Workers' Party is co-responsible with the municipality economy in 2004, also in relation to their having a settlement in relation to the national budget. That is why I think the Labour Party can either look for new arguments in relation to the reforms that had to be adopted, or the Labour Party must be credible in relation to whether they want more resources and resources for the local government or not. It has not been so long since the revision of the budget was discussed. Then, of course, the Workers' Party can argue that they found other areas of priority, and that they got 1.3 billion – or whatever it was – in the agreement, but the Workers' Party had the full opportunity to run slums in the Stortinget and through the little support of the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party to get more funding for the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e613	I didn't intend to extend the debate, but the previous speeches actually made me have to. Because that's how -- and I know that Per Sandberg knows, if he wants to know -- that the Workers' Party had a deal with the Government on the budget last year where we increased the revenues of the municipalities by 2 billion kroner. In our alternative budget, we actually had $3 billion i plus. It is also true that when we now deal with the municipal bill for the next year, we are going to increase the income of the municipalities in addition to what is in the Government's proposal. Then it only remains to be seen whether the Progress Party will follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e618	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 585]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e634	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It'll be to look at it as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e643	A majority of the Committee, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, agree with the Government that there is a need to lower the penalties for expulsion. The proposal contains a reduction from one year, which today, to six months for those who have a residence and work permit in this country, and a decrease from three years to two years for those who have a residence permit. The progress party will have even tighter frames, and in the case of SV and the Center Party, it is not easy to understand what they really mean. I expect that they will elaborate on it themselves in their posts later. The proposals that will now be adopted are a follow-up to the family violence report, where the mandate of the sample was to improve the situation of those who are exposed to violence and harassment from non-residents in Norway. There is reason to point out that the lowering of penalties should not be a general threshold for expulsion. Punishment should primarily be related to violent crimes and organised crime. And there will be many criminal acts that have a six-month penalty, where expulsion will involve disproportionate interference with the crime. It is therefore important to establish that there is crime related to violence that you will have the primary opportunity to punish with expulsion. The proportionality rule must be emphasised here and clear limits must be set on the possibility of expulsion in relation to the seriousness of the offence. In other words, when a foreigner is convicted of criminal offences that could lead to expulsion, it shall always be assessed whether expulsion would involve disproportionate interference for the foreigner himself or for the immediate family members. The Party of Workers, the SV and the Centre consider that there may be legal grounds for ensuring that such a decision on expulsion should be taken by the courts. The same parties therefore ask the Government to determine whether it is the courts and not the UDI to take expulsion decisions. This applies in cases where offences against the criminal law require a final judgment by the courts. A majority of the Committee - all outside the SV and the Central Party - supports the Government's proposal to introduce a new regime in which, instead of free judicial advice at first instance, an information and guidance system is put in place by an independent voluntary organisation. The entire Committee agrees that unaccompanied minors will continue to receive legal assistance at first instance. The Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party believe that legal certainty will be ensured in the new regime. There are several countries that it is natural for us to compare with, that do not provide legal aid at first instance. The Working Party, the SV and the Centre believe that increased resources need to be allocated to the provision of individual guidance, and promote proposals to that effect. This is especially true in relation to gender-related persecution, where it is not as simple as always, to tell unknown people about abuses that have occurred. Finally, a little bit in relation to the equal right to divorce for women and men. Equally entitled to divorce for women and men is a matter of course here in the country, but in many countries it is not. An overall committee is not satisfied with the work of the Government in relation to this problem, cf. the request decisions taken one year ago on the same subject. An overall committee believes that marriage contracts should be eligible for family reunification. This must apply to the countries where the equal right to divorce is regulated. Countries such as Pakistan has legislated equal rights to divorce for men and women. Therefore, a Joint Committee of the Governments urgently asks for an investigation and amendment of the legislation so that there is a condition for family reunification in Norway that the woman is guaranteed equal to the right to divorce in the marriage contract. We await the Government's investigation of the proposal. So a correction: on page 3, second column, in the setting, there is an incursion that has become a mistake. The SV and the Central Party shall not participate in the majority of the Committee from the sentence which begins with the following: "The majority believe that the tightening of penalties should primarily be related to" etc. SV and the Central Party re-enter the majority from the beginning of the next section, starting with "Multiply underlines that" and so on. For the sake of order, I would like to point out that the part of the comment that SV and the Central Party are not in, is still a majority comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e672	Then the case spokesperson has done some good for some corrections, which are thus noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e675	In this case, the lower penalties for the expulsion of aliens who have a work permit or residence permit in Norway are proposed to be lowered from a prison sentence for more than one year to a prison sentence for 6 months or more for certain types of crime. It is worth noting that the proposal does not involve a general lowering of the criminal framework. The proposal provides for the listing of those punishable by a penalty of six months which may lead to expulsion. When the proposal is now limited to the criminal penalties mentioned in the proposal, it is because the Ministry shares the view of those hearing bodies that believe that expulsion decisions would be too invasive in the event of non-serious crimes, for example: Nazirite, negligent damage and violation of the Road Traffic Act. There are also proposals to reduce the lower penalties for aliens who have, or who fulfil, the conditions for obtaining a residence permit from the prison sentence for "three years or more" to "two years or more". This implies a general reduction in the criminal framework for the expulsion of a foreigner with a residence permit. This will also include drug offences. There must be a final judgment before expulsion can occur. The right considers, therefore, that the bill does not go at the expense of legal certainty for non-residents. Foreigners cannot be expelled for minor offences because a lower penalty framework for expulsion is set. In addition, in all expulsion cases, it shall be assessed whether expulsion would be a disproportionate measure. The proportionality assessment involves a specific assessment in the individual case. I also point out that a foreigner can bring an expulsion decision before the courts, which can test all aspects of the proportionality assessment. I believe this is a guarantee of legal certainty for the individual. There has been a lot of attention in recent years about the legal aid to asylum seekers and the work that lawyers are doing. It has been found that some lawyers have had a very large client portfolio, which has been at the expense of the individual advice and follow-up of the applicants. This is the background for the Ministry now proposing changes to the rules of free justice. The need for legal assistance appears to be greater in the complaint phase than in the application phase. This is not reflected in today's legal order. As a result, the number of hours of legal assistance is increased in the appeal session from three hours to five hours. Own lists of lawyers are established in each region and the regional offices of the UDI allocate lawyers to the applicants according to these lists. This ensures greater proximity between lawyers and asylum seekers in the complaint phase and allows for more personal contact. In addition, we are very pleased that a broad majority supports the requirement for pediatric competence in relation to the creation of the lists of lawyers. In addition, it is a goal of the Government that age testing is to be carried out as soon as possible after arrival. The Government Parties will support the Workers’ Party’s proposal to investigate and amend the Code, so that it is a condition for family reunification in Norway that the woman is guaranteed equal rights to divorce in the marriage contract. We believe it is important for Norway to show a clear attitude towards polycony, and consider it appropriate to implement measures that can be implemented. It is not without reason that the Storting repeals today's request decision No. 612 of 19 June 2003. We have to admit that the premises that were taken into account were false. Norway has fulfilled its obligations under the Human Rights Convention and the gender perspective has been safeguarded by granting the parties equal rights to marriage and divorce under Norwegian law. The government has investigated the question of our human rights obligations regarding the relationship to divorce. In connection with the request decision of Stortinget, the Department has obtained assistance from the Department of Justice, the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights and the Institute for Cultural Studies at the University of Oslo. This shows that the majority's views on this are clearly contradicted in the report mentioned in the motion for a resolution. It is true that Norway can only enforce its own law and not intervene in the private law of other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e697	Tonight it looks like I have to wake up well in order not to be too satisfied. But once again, there's one thing in which the bulk of the population is now going in the right direction. But as the setting shows, the Progress Party is still not satisfied with the steps taken. There will still be an impression that Norway has a brilliant attitude towards foreign criminals. Until now, Norway has been a magnet for foreign criminals. It may be that with these proposals it will slow down in the very long term. Therefore, the Progress Party also finds it sad in a positive context that the Stortinget does not take the step fully and follow the Progress Party. At that time, it would have been of great importance for the Storting to send out a signal to the outside world that we are really seeing serious developments in the form of crime among non-residents in Norway, by reducing the penalties considerably more in relation to expulsion. We could have said welcome after. Based on the suspension, we see quite clearly that the Progress Party goes significantly further in relation to both § 29 and § 30 of the Foreign Affairs Act. In addition, the Progress Party has a proposal in which we ask the Government to "examine the consequences of repealing Section 12 of the Foreign Affairs Act on a residence permit". I'm not going to say anything more than that, but we think that the absolutely fundamental, correct approach to both crime and other conditions of residence in Norway would have been to assess the residence permit in its entirety against possible permanent residence in Norway. If we had had such a situation now, it would actually not have been necessary to discuss so much of the lower penalty framework for deployment. Then it would have been much easier. I think it's a little strange that one sort of finds some boundaries in relation to the severity when one thinks about preventing the crime of foreigners, especially in the case of drug crimes. We know that the sanctions in Norway are almost not fully applied at all, and then the grips we are doing now become a little too puzzled in relation to it. But we record that the Stortinget and the Government are on their way to convergence with the Advance Party's policy in this field, and we are pleased with that. Finally, I will also be allowed to say something about divorce. The Progress Party continues to believe that the Storting request decision of 19 June 2003 will keep water. It might be a little sad that we're not taking the fight here now in relation to it. That we in the Storting sort of now back off because we've got a pressure from some churches, religious groups, etc., I think I'm sad. When we were dealing with this matter last year, I think it was a unanimous growth that had an intention to really help immigrant women in relation to the problem they are facing. Now, when we reverse this, I think it actually gets a double negative effect, because now we're sending out a signal that the Norwegian collapse is happening. It doesn't matter to the Progress Party to do, but we're not taking the glove up now. We choose to come back to that case at a later stage. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal of the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e712	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e715	Let me start by saying that we're basically positive at lowering the penalties for those who have a work permit and a residence permit, as it says in the setting, precisely because we see a point related to family violence, where it might be reasonable to expel people like that. hold a family reunification residence permit. That's why we've been positive about this initially. But I have to say that I think it is a paradox that it is incredibly easy to collect uprisings in this room about measures against foreigners who commit abuses against women living in Norway, so it is not possible, for example, to obtain. a debate on the electronic labelling of Norwegian offenders who do exactly the same to their own wives. But leave that paradox. Secondly, I think this is uncertain -- it's obvious sight that this will seem preventative, as the previous speaker said. That's something you assume from the department, but you don't have a single empirical proof to say it, and you don't show anywhere what it's like. We have no idea whether this will work preventively, and then I actually don't think we should write it either. But over to what we think is the most important thing about expulsion cases. We believe that expulsion proceedings as a result of convictions in court proceedings should be decided by the court which condemns the punishment in these cases. And that's very easy. There is no doubt that an additional penalty is imposed on people expelled from Norway if they have a residence permit. How strongly that punishment will work and how strict it will feel will vary greatly, depending on the kind of connection you have with Norway. If you have a family in Norway, in my opinion, this will certainly be felt as a much more severe punishment than, for example, that. a two-year sentence. That's why we think it's important to put the expulsion in court for two different reasons. One is a consistent practice, with clear limits on who it is to be expelled and who it is not to be expelled. We believe that the change that is now taking place is a general extension of the grounds for expulsion. For example, lowering the penalty framework from three years to two years is a general extension that will work. I also think the comments made by the majority in relation to those with a work and residence permit, from which the centre party and SV are now withdrawing, are more general than what is initially in the proposal. That's why I think the Council of State should consider this a little more carefully. The second important thing is that if it had been the court that had ordered expulsion, it would also have been known at the moment you went to prison. In terms of integration and follow-up by the criminal justice community, this would certainly have been beneficial, for example. those who were known to be sent to Italy, to Germany, to Belgium or anywhere, that they had had the opportunity to negotiate with the respective country for example. to implement the settlement there, because there is a segregated government in prison. On the other hand, if you had known that you could stay, you would have an opportunity and a much stronger motivation for, for example, to undergo Norwegian training. That's why we think it's important. We think it is important to make sure that a regulation is made on the concept of "relationship to the kingdom", as the UN has asked for. Every year, there are twenty male members of families who have children in Norway, and we think it's a clue that this is happening -- just because this is something that seems devastating to the children who are here in the country. The government aired in the hearing that it would be considered to establish the principle of proportionality. It is the view of a majority of the Committee, but not of a majority of the Grand Duchy, that the Government should set in motion. In view of all this and in view of the fact that we want this court hearing in place, we do not wish to accept the amendments to the law under point A, but we refer to our own proposal to section 29. We also point out that we will support - I kept saying - all the other letters in the committee's decision-making position, in order to establish a court-martial procedure for the expulsion of criminal convictions. I will take up the suggestions in the setting to which SV is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e738	The representative Heikki Holmås has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e741	Norway is still a safe and good country to live in, but more and more people still feel scared in their everyday lives - perhaps not so strange. We hear about the elderly who don't dare go out in the evening, unmotivated acts of violence and killing fill our newspaper columns, and women seek out crisis centers because of family elections. Development needs to be reversed, and this applies, of course, to all the criminality of power, who carries out the indictment or demise. Too often we hear that people have been subjected to the power and harassment of foreigners in Norway. Now we are expanding the possibility of expelling foreigners who have committed crimes and who pose a danger to others. There is more than just sending a signal. Let it be clear: it is unacceptable to commit crime. Choose a break in Norway, Norwegian law must follow. It's just supposed to be missing! The Christian People's Party believes that this force of punishment is the right measure. We would like to stress that it is to be used primarily in the context of violent crime and organised crime, but we believe that tightening up the legislation on when one can be expelled from the country will give both a safer and a warmer society, because the person who has committed the criminal action is simply not in the country. In addition, perhaps the risk of being expelled will prevent some crime. At least let's hope that! The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal to introduce a new regime for assistance to asylum seekers. We believe that information and guidance actions carried out by an independent volunteer organisation can work well, but we believe that there is still a need to provide legal assistance to single minors. The Christian People's Party has argued that the gathering of individual guidance is being developed in relation to today's system, not least in the interest of gender-related persecution, which in that way, we believe, can better be detected and become part of the asylum base at an earlier time. It is very important that legal certainty is safeguarded, and we believe that the new system is clearly achieving its objectives in this way. We would like to point out that there are many other European countries that do not provide legal advice in the first instance either. The Proposition also mentions the Storting's unanimous call for decisions about about a year ago on the prevention of coercion and bigamy by family reunification. We've noticed the feedback. For the Christian People's Party, it is natural to state that Norway approves only one spouse, and therefore supports measures that we may come up with to prevent bigami. Unfortunately, the intention of the Storing Decision is still unresolved. However, we need to find solutions that do not conflict with other important laws and arrangements - not least, it is important that the legislative changes do not conflict with the freedom of trust that we all choose to support. We therefore support the proposal to abolish and amend the legislation with the aim of preventing coercion. We must also be closed in order to prevent a person from having a family relationship by marrying a person who is still married to another person in the country of origin. We know that this is happening, and we think it is completely unacceptable. Finally, I would like to add that there is a lot of women's fight that must be fought before part of the immigrant women in Norway get the freedom that they are required under Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e764	Ot. pp. No 51 contains three main themes - for the first, lowering of the lower penalty framework for expulsion in connection with family elections, for the second, free counsel, and for the third, follow-up of the Grand Council's call for decisions. 611 and 612 on the change in the conditions of family co-ordination. To paragraph 1, I would like to stress from the Central Party that we believe that the fight against crime should be a high priority, and we believe that the report on family power should be taken seriously. We support lowering the penalty for expulsion, from one year to six months, but on the condition that the courts then have taken over making such decisions. I think it's a curious thing that there's a UDI that makes a decision about expulsion. The amendments should not, in our view, be put into effect until the courts have taken over the responsibility for such decisions. Decisions to reject should be part of a judgment, as has been said here before. It's actually a lot easier and tidyer to deal with, because whoever son says punishment, knows what he or she has to stick to, when he or she comes out of prison. Then we thought it was good that the government in this field actually listened to the hearing authorities. They have sent out an e-mail, and they have received various counter-parties. More of the hearing authorities think it is a better solution to tighten up the penal system for certain more serious crimes than to lower the penal system for expulsion. Instead of a general lowering of the lower penal system, as suggested in the letter of hearing, the Ministry has now introduced a review of the criminal sentences with a six-month penalty that could lead to expulsion. That's what we thought was good. We also hope that it will be possible to transfer the foreign law, which is a difficult but important field. We hope that the department listens to the bodies that are otherwise central to this field. So I want to comment on pretty short point 2. We believe there are good reasons to leave the first information guide service for asylum seekers to an organisation. We give our support to it, but we want to warn against removing legal aid in the first instance. The Ministry has now produced its own report entitled "Safeguarding Legal Assistance". It was a report that recommended strengthening and not weakening the law. For us, it's surprising that the department now goes to the step they're taking in the first instance. While it is good that single asylum seekers still receive legal assistance at this stage, the Knoff report made some clear recommendations. One suggested that the Court should: that permanent enrolment asylum lawyers were given clear tasks. We thought that such an organisation would also ensure legal certainty in the first stage and would result in the necessary cleanup in relation to current practice. It was also interesting that the Knoff report made some savings in relation to the expenses you currently have at the law school. We believe that one could avert some appeals by also having legal assistance in the first instance. Finally, quite briefly, about the two welcome decisions. It's probably true here, when it comes to equality between ethnic Norwegian and foreign women, it's a while until we're there. But we would like to underline the effect that the department will soon follow up the committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e782	I should hope that I was as optimistic as the previous speaker on the question of whether good legal advice would have contributed to our not having received complaints. I am sorry to say that so far enough legal aid has contributed to everyone's complaint, no matter how baseless the case may be. It may be that you automatically sign out three hours for that complaint, despite the fact that you know that it will not come forward - and thus involve considerable expenditure on the state budget. I am pleased that the vote essentially endorses the proposals we have made. I just want to comment on a couple of small questions, which in themselves are important questions of principle. One is the question of proportionality. We're still in the situation that we're assessing whether we can enforce it, and in what way we're going to enforce it. I think we'll think carefully through these things. If we get into a situation where the court is going to adopt expulsion or not, the proportionality assessment at the time a crime has just been convicted may be different from what it will be after four to five years of atonement, because family relationships that have been broken may have come about again. There are a lot of things that can happen in life, so it's not necessarily given that you can't actually have more reasons at a later stage for not being expelled. But we're considering laying down the principle of proportionality and how we're going to lead, but if we're going to do that, I'll never be absolutely sure until we've been through the legal base. My experience with this is that putting all the assessments down on paper in legal language sometimes is so complicated that when we do, we have to be sure that we also hit the plank. On the issue of the legal system for asylum, I believe that what we are proposing is going to provide better legal guidance for asylum seekers. I believe it is a strengthening of legal certainty. What underlies the Knoff report, among other things, clearly shows that many lawyers did not give the help they were supposed to give, and that there was probably a significant fetching out of money without doing the same job, and that there was therefore no legal certainty. Having a lawyer is no legal certainty if the lawyer does not do his job. It's a pretty substantial emphasis. We have today put in place a legal information system because last year we cut money to the number of hours of legal aid on the Ministry of Justice's budget. We submitted a tender with information in advance. Our assumption is that we're going to increase the amount of it in the next round. Among other things, we need to: also take into account the fact that the information provided clearly informs about the special situations in which women have rights, such as: in relation to the interview situation, interpreters and other regulatory issues, and ensure that information on gender issues is included. So our assumption of this change is to expand the assignment that we per. Today's date has gone, in the form of a new assignment offer, and use some of the savings in addition to the slightly more than 5 million we spend today. I want to stress that the decision taken by Stortinget before the summer of last year has caused some problems, because this is some of the most complicated matter you can go into. It's religion, it's about other countries' systems of private law, and it's about religion being practiced differently in different countries. I don't think either of us really have an overview of how such a code will turn out, even though we've spent a lot of time and resources trying to figure out what the total consequences will be of the rules that the Storting has made. I fully agree with the intention behind that, it is important that everyone is granted their rights, including the right to have a working divorce. It is important to say that a functional divorce in the home country can be the first option for a home country. It is very difficult for Norwegian authorities to be supranational in relation to all other countries. We can secure rights on our land and in our territory, and then work to find solutions in relation to other countries. But I'm reacting a little bit to it as a majority of the committee - but a minority in the Stortinget - says that we have not assessed the relationship with the human rights conventions in relation to the right to divorce. Well, it has been duly assessed by considerations, both from the law department and from the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, which are in fact contrary to what was claimed in the comments of the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party. It's even said that we haven't figured it out: we've actually done that, and I think it would have been neat if you hadn't claimed that when the reports are fully accessible for reading. We would actually have been more in conflict with human rights if we had done what the proposal was like than with what we're doing now. We are fully within human rights by not having any specific rules in relation to other countries' divorce laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e799	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e802	When an overall committee now takes up again the proposal of equal rights to divorce for men and women, it shows that the Storting believes this is serious. This is a problem that we don't accept. I fully agree with the Council of State that here we are in an area that is very complicated. But that's the way the Council of State says, first of all, we have to deal with the laws and regulations of other countries. In Islam, there is a right to divorce. But we find the problems in those countries where religious law overrides the civil one. Then my question is to the Council of State: will the Council of State now add the goodwill and provide an acceptable solution after the hearing? I remind you that here we have another case that has been to the hearing, where a very large number of the hearings have been negative, but nevertheless the Council of State has run that case to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e809	My main basis for coming back to the Storting is not how many hearing bodies disagree with what has been proposed by the Storting, but the fact and the basis on which they disagree: if we regulated it, we would have violated the fundamental human rights and obligations that we have signed, which are part of our law. In addition, the original decision, if we had practiced it the way it was, would have been more discriminatory than it would have been for women, including women. because women who would not have been divorced and who are already in Norway would have been prevented from having a family reunion with a new man from their home country because the first man refused a divorce. I think most people actually want to see was not the intention of what you tried to regulate. Then maybe you should be a little bit more lowly and not so critical. I would like to stress that it is not that in Islam religion is superior to the private-law system in the matter of marriage. In Islam, marriage is a private contract, not a religious contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e818	I should have liked to have had a longer debate on what surprises me too, that the Council of State places so much emphasis on the problems that you will have in relation to laws and regulations in other countries when we are going to make legislative changes in Norway - and above all Muslim countries. I'll leave that, we'll probably come back to that debate. But my challenge to the Council of State concerns the proposal of the Progress Party on Section 12 of the suspension. For some reason, the phenomenon entered residence permits in the Foreign Affairs Act in 1988. As far as I have read, there was a new design, which was not found in the former alien law. The objective of that paragraph is to improve the protection of foreigners from expulsion. Then is my question to the Council of State: if we had considered removing or changing that paragraph, could it have triggered a stronger prevention of crime among foreigners than the arrests we take by lowering the penalties, as we do in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e827	The question of whether we should remove the system of residence permits, I do not want to answer over the table without having considered what we should have as an alternative. In relation to expulsion, it may be said that having a residence permit is an operationalisation of the fact that the requirement to be expelled is higher the longer you live in a country, because you have a closer connection. So you could say that, alternatively, we had to put it into a proportionality assessment, because it's clear that the longer you've been in a country, the more connected you have, and the more unreasonable an expulsion will be. It is then operated by having a two-year penalty framework, after this proposal, over one year and six months, after the other. For example, something else that is important in relation to the residence permit is: that after three years, persons who have married to the country have the right to live here even if marriage is dissolved, which has been an important guarantee for many women who live in difficult marriages and which would otherwise not have been granted a residence permit on their own initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e839	The Knoff report that we are now talking about, which is about legal advice, was presented last year. There were a number of different suggestions. Several of them I am very pleased that the Council of State has followed up, with initiatives such as improving the system in relation to the selection of a lawyer and setting standards on it. I am very pleased with what has come in relation to getting more information from a kind of free legal aid organisation, information that may relate to them. But the concrete proposal that Knoff made is that it was very important to extend the system of free legal aid at first instance, while the Council of State has done the whole opposite, namely to remove the whole thing. This is contrary to what Mr Kneff recommends, and it is contrary to what the Refugee Council, the Juss-Buss, the Bar Association, the Rescue Children and, not least, the UNHCR have said, because they stress that free legal aid must be provided throughout the asylum process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e846	There is a difference between giving legal advice and giving free legal advice. So when we give information about the situation of refugees, what rights they have, we give legal advice through a voluntary organization, which, of course, should have competence in providing legal advice, not just individually, but on a general and broad basis of what the process is, what rights you have. That means that we believe we're fulfilling this, that we're giving legal advice throughout the whole process to the individual. But the counsel, which is a special form of counsel, is given only in appeals. The main emphasis of the European countries has chosen the model that we have, with less emphasis on information from independent organisations at first instance treatment, but has it in the complainant’s aftercare. I think it gives a concentrated and better treatment, and it actually also gives a weight on legal aid as at the law level. That the Law Association is against it: well, any union would probably be.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e855	There can be no doubt that the Council of State here is making a different proposal than the one recommended by the Knoff report when it comes to legal aid. There is a great difference between making proposals for action against arbitrary and light-wine legal aid and removing legal aid from the first instance. But what I was actually going to spend the time on right now is the assessment that the Council of State announced in relation to the proportionality rule. I think it is very important that the Council of State looks closely at how he is being practised today. It's the simple things that give him a face today. I know that she has been contacted for an example where the practice seems to be very tight. My question is, what time perspective does the Council of State have in relation to the assessment it is currently making when it concerns regulatory fastening?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e864	We're doing the proportionality assessment. I'm afraid to stand in this room and give a timeline as to when we're done, simply because we're getting so many new assignments that we've changed all our work plans three times this year, among other things. because of many assignments from this room to make new propositions, etc. Hopefully we'll be in port around Christmastime, at the beginning of January/February next year. The plan was to be finished in the autumn, but we have measured resources, and when other tasks are given higher priority, we have to push at those who are not equally timely. I don't think I'll promise anything to the Storting in terms of when we can finish the assessment, because it's also a question of how complicated it gradually evolves to be, depending on how to define legal terms, so that there is no meaning other than that. to codify the main part of the kind of practice we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e870	No more words have been asked for. Those who are given the word now have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e875	I felt the need to take the word again. Five minutes of speaking time did not go to all the recordings that I thought were necessary. We were involved in this that went on expulsion. I was surprised that the Council of State did not grasp the ball that I was playing over to her. The "antas" several places in the file itself that when we somehow lower the requirements for expulsion, it will have a positive - i.e. a preventative - effect. I would like to ask the Council of State, where did she get it? Is it sighting, or does she have an empirical on the basis of that? I noticed that the Council of State believes that we are a demanding assembly that gives her many new assignments. I'm really happy to hear that, and I can assure the council that she's quite demanding herself. The last two issues discussed in the document are those relating to legal certainty. I believe - and the SV and the Center Party believe - that there is a deterioration in legal certainty at the moment when you remove the legal aid in the first instance proceedings. I notice that the technical investigation that the department was given concluded with the opposite of what the council said. It concluded that you should have five hours of investigation instead of three, but the Council of State believes it should not be anything, and will let the organisation take care of everything. So the fact that the organisation is going to take care of everything is not something new that the Council of State invented at the moment, but something that the Knoff Committee proposed. I think it would be a strengthening of legal certainty to link people who come as asylum seekers to an independent, voluntary organisation, which in a way has a reputation as state-independent. I think that's a good thing. I think that's good. But I see no reason why you can't give this legal aid to people through legal aid, so that you actually get a proper review of the asylum interviews with the lawyer. This can help people, and you ensure that at the moment that the UDI deals with the matter at first instance, this is something that they are given legal advice to do. We believe that this is necessary in order to ensure legal certainty. I want to say that an unfortunate outcome of the change that the government is now getting through is that the people who are now in a 48-hour procedure will not get legal assistance in advance of the first instance proceedings. They will be sent out mainly before the second instance treatment in the Foreign Affairs Department is completed. This means, in fact, that you will not get lawyers in to assist you in advance of the asylum seekers being sent out of the country. I don't think that's a good arrangement. The last thing that's being treated here is this about divorces for women, about marriage contracts. I'm very pleased that a unanimous growth is in favour of it, and we await the investigation from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e888	Does it have a preventative effect or not to be able to exhibit? We can always discuss whether criminal sanctions and other things have a preventative effect, but in this case at least they have a very clear preventative effect if we can expose people who have repeatedly violated a restraining order, before they beat their wives in their heels, to say it a little nasty and vulgar. That's a little bit of what's underlying some of these issues. This applies to persons who have repeatedly breached some of these provisions, e.g.: in a typical women's violence situation with an accelerated development of the situation, which has ended in killings. It has been shown that if you had intervened at an earlier time, you could have done something about these matters. I fully agree that something must be done about the situation of Norwegian women in the same area, but it is therefore possible to expel them in this area. In fact, the proportionality assessment has often gone wrong in the past because common children have had to be taken into account. In some of these cases, attention has been given to letting people stay, and that's one of the reasons why we look at the proportionality assessment. In these situations, the people you're in contact with, actually the victims, and that might be the basis for saying that we need to change the way you think about that kind of proportionality assessment. It is absolutely right that we have not followed up the whole Knoff report. We've followed up a lot of it, but there are some main features that we've chosen to do in a different way. We've done that because we've been listening to UDI. We have listened to many others who work in the field in this area, and have received feedback where they express that there are other ways to organise it. We've also looked at other countries' organisational forms. An evaluation report is not about eating everything and saying that it is policy. But we have to make a total assessment of what Knoff - and Professor Bernt, who has been the one who has done this for Knoff - has done as an important contribution to the matter. Let me just finally say something about the divorce case. It is difficult to have three different issues and discuss them in a short debate. The main challenge for women who need a divorce is that the divorce must be registered locally in offices in their home country. It's not the religious part that's the main problem. It is a problem they bring with them, but even a woman who has had a legally functioning Norwegian divorce must also be registered in their home country in order to be safe, for example. in the countries where Sharia legislation is practised, involving, inter alia: to be charged with adultery. This is one of the reasons why, as an important measure, we proposed to work to facilitate this registration. For Morocco, you have to go to the embassy here in Norway, and you can get your papers. You get it registered locally, and then you've settled the domestic situation. It's been our main reason to say that we're going to clean this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e903	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 585]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e919	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - That's to look at as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e928	The Proposition of the Government has three separate parts: one part dealing with the cooperation of the Parties in the field of vocational and vocational training, another part on language training for minority language pupils and a third part on the responsibility for assessment and follow-up of results at school. The Committee, acting unanimously, shall form part of two of the three parts, namely cooperation between the Parties, and the follow-up to the results. The new structure of cooperation between the Parties on vocational and vocational training has come about after a recommendation has been made by a working group set up by the Ministry. The former Labour Training Council, RFA, is replaced by a cooperative body, where the social partners and the ministry meet and discuss matters. Training councils are replaced by professional councils. The Ministry has joined the working group's recommendations and the Committee unanimously supports this conclusion. Furthermore, the Ministry wishes to clarify that the school owner/supervisor must have a sound school assessment and performance follow-up system. This requires an assessment of compliance with legal and regulatory requirements for operations and a system for monitoring the results of quality assessments. In this way, the follow-up of the school owner/supervisor becomes more active. The Committee agrees unanimously. The part of the proposition which has divided the Committee into a majority and a minority concerns language training for minority language pupils. The majority, the government parties and the Progress Party share the Ministry's assessment of the need for a new focus in language training for these students. The aim of the legislative changes is not to remove the right to language training, nor is it to remove the right to bilingual vocational training, but simply to make specific training in Norwegian the main instrument to make minority language students sufficiently good in Norwegian to be able to follow the usual training in school. In addition to the fact that the right to both language and bilingual vocational training exists, the legislative proposal takes into account that all pupils are different and that not all minority language students need all three components. I attended a debate earlier today in the NRK's "Here and Now". The principal at one of the Oslo schools, Gjermund Jørgensen, expressed the core of the proposal very well. His point was that for some students, language teaching is very important, while for other students it is not important. And this is just the point: Ali needs native language training in Urdu, Hong needs bilingual vocational training in Norwegian and Vietnamese, and Mohammed needs special and reinforced Norwegian training. Common to all three is that both the mother tongue training, the bilingual vocational training and the special Norwegian training are tools for learning Norwegian so well that they can follow the school’s regular education. None of the three components are for their own benefit, but they are an instrument for learning Norwegian. Neither appropriations nor rights are cut by this proposal, but the focus is shifted from the system to the students. So there's nothing wrong with a municipality offering more language education than the law requires, or more bilingual vocational training if that's what helps the students the best. I believe it should be an important element for both the Organisation Against Public Discrimination and the Contact Committee between immigrants and authorities to support the proposal under certain conditions. To quote from the Organisation Against Public Discrimination Hearing Calls: "OMOD is of the opinion that it is high time to give priority to Norwegian education for minority children. The fact that we now have a stronger focus on specific language training is therefore a positive factor." For the majority of the committee, it is also important to listen to the signals given by the Municipality of Oslo, precisely because Oslo has 50 pst. by all minority language pupils in the country. I record that proposals for a flexible law that puts students in the centre, divides the committee into a right and a left. It makes me wonder what might be the motives on the left-hand side of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e955	Equivalence, inclusive and adapted training are general school principles. Students are different and therefore need training adapted to needs and assumptions. Primary schools have many students with a foreign language background. There is no doubt that language is the key to integration, to social integration in society or access to knowledge and education. One of the objectives of education for children is full control of Norway. The author Sunil Loona has written something that I think we all agree with, and which is probably a starting point for the debate here today, namely that "The starting point for the training of all children, whether Norwegian or minority, should be that of children brought with them language skills, life history, influences, needs, etc. to school - and here, bilingual training for minority language children should be given a natural and important place." Today, amendments to the Training Act are adopted which, in our opinion, weaken minority language students’ rights to language and bilingual education. This is also a main objection from all the hearing bodies that are opposed to the proposal, so there is nothing coming from the left side of the Stortinget. A majority, consisting of the government parties and the Progress Party, will today adopt a change in law that downgrades the right to native language training and bilingual vocational training in relation to specific Norwegian training. Thus, according to today’s Training Act, municipalities are obliged to provide minority language pupils in primary school with the necessary language training, bilingual vocational training and specific Norwegian training until they have sufficient Norwegian skills to follow regular education. Nevertheless, we know that the provision of mother tongue training for linguistic minorities has been very variable from municipality to municipality, and also from one school to another. We have also been informed by the department that one has not had a system of regular testing to see if the student has acquired the necessary knowledge to follow normal vocational training in Norwegian. We record that the majority does not provide any professional justification for the decision. It is a fact that there is little research on parental education for minority students. We have little knowledge of the content, quality and scope of the teaching that has been given. Rather, it is quite the opposite, according to the proposition, where it appears that several hearing bodies consider that there is sufficient evidence that there is precisely the link between native language training and Norwegian training that actually yields the best results, including from some important departments of this government. The Minister of Education himself has stated that this amendment to the law could, at least for some students, imply a more stringent requirement for necessity. I don't think that's a desirable development. Students with a minority language background are an important and large group: on a national basis, it is more than 7 pst. Many have as good school results as majority-speaking ones. But we know that minority-speaking on average makes school worse than majority-speaking. It is therefore extremely important that we have good professional reasons, good research and use good time, so that we do not go wrong and do something that can work against its purpose. We believe that one can practice today's rules with flexibility, that is. flexibility with the different components inherent in today’s rights. And if it was so that one was really looking to cut some of the components, one should at least have asked the Storting for a dispensation in relation to the trial, because then simply to find knowledge. I have a great deal of understanding that there are practical problems, but I disagree that the way to go is to remove today's rights for minority speakers. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that the Government must correct weaknesses in today's system. It's e.g. the need to strengthen competence in this area and to improve the recruitment of language teachers and bilingual teachers. I registered no later than today that it launched the Council of State in its own press release: scholarships to bilingual students. See subsequent correction, page 564. It is also important to summarise research in this area and to implement new research, so that we can gain more insight into the impact and importance of maternal education. Reading and writing basic skills are an important prerequisite for success in all subjects. We have a job to do, and special Norwegian training is important, but we do not want to weaken the right to minority language students in terms of the ability to receive native language training and bilingual training.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e987	The proposition contains three issues. The first concerns cooperation between the Ministry and the social partners on vocational and vocational training. In view of the history of the 2004 main budget, a good solution has now been found. The main story is about a government that, quite surprising to the social partners, would lay down the Labour Training Council and the Training Councils. Strong reactions led to an overall committee stopping that proposal. The working group that has looked at the question has delivered its opinion, and these are the recommendations from which the department joins. So does the Progress Party. When it became process, it became good. The third case concerns the responsibility for assessment and follow-up of results in initial training. Law changes make it more clear that schools are responsible for the school’s proper system of monitoring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. The party is concerned that each school should have a larger room for action. With increased room for action, the opinion of the Progress Party also leads to increased responsibilities. At the same time, it is also necessary to facilitate the strengthening of supervision, the establishment of supervision as free and independent supervision, and the clear legal framework to be followed by supervision. The Progress Party has always had and has continued to have clear views on this, and can also show that other countries in Europe have invested in independent supervision. In other contexts, we have promoted — and will once again promote — proposals on the organisation and organisation of school supervision. In this case, the Progress Party focuses on clarification of responsibility through the law. The proposal also includes national quality assessments carried out by the Ministry under Section 14-1 of the Training Act, and the Progress Party joins the proposal. Finally, the second of the three proposals. Specific language training applies to pupils from language minorities in primary school. The focus is shifted to Norwegian. The government proposes to amend the Training Act § 2-8, so that training in Norwegian becomes the main instrument for acquiring minority language students in Norwegian to obtain optimal benefits from schooling and thus good integration into Norwegian society. Good Norwegian knowledge is important not only for the student's benefits from school but also for the general integration of Norwegian society. This has been claimed by the Progress Party for all years, and this continues to claim the Progress Party. Therefore, we are satisfied when the Government makes a strategic change in language training for the linguistic minorities. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is pleased with the change, although other parties have taken a long time to reach a majority position on this, and we naturally support the proposal. At the same time, there is reason to point out that in this view the widespread use of state resources for mother tongue training - a view that is now abandoned - there has been a willingness to use significant government funding for such education. In the 2003–04 school year, 20,000 pupils received language and/or bilingual vocational training in a total of 112 different languages, including: Albanian, Arabic, Kurdish, Somali, Urdu and Vietnamese, as the largest. A total of 38 000 students received specific Norwegian training. On top. 221, item 65 is the total of 785 million. kr for this purpose. The Progress Party would like to look at how these funds are now to be used. We would like to see these funds in conjunction with the two strategic plans that the Government has made. One is: Give room for reading -- which is an action to strengthen the reading skills of all students. And the second is: Equivalence of education in practice, which are measures for the participation of linguistic minorities in kindergartens, schools and education respectively. I'll mention our suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1008	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1011	So far in the debate we have recorded that there is quite a lot of disagreement in the majority behind the vote. The representative Arne Sortevik and Ine Marie Eriksen at least place different emphasis on the amendment - while Sortevik stresses that although this is not a paradigm shift, at least it is a significant change, then when the representative Ine Marie Eriksen speaks, we get the impression that this is a small adjustment. It makes us critical to be critical. But first a little comment on the amendment that goes on the technical advice. I think it is good that there has been agreement between the department and the parties, and that they are making such a proposal that there is a professional advice. I also expect that these advice will largely follow the training programmes that you have come up with in St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004. However, it is important to stress that in the future these advices that are being established must work closely together. When there is advice working with related subjects, it is very important that they have close and good cooperation. Looking at linguistic minorities and language training, there is a relatively broad consensus between professionals that mastering the native language is almost a prerequisite for learning a foreign language. I guess it's not just professionals who agree on this, but it's also a broad political consensus that mastering the mother tongue is important. There is, after all, a good deal of research and evidence that there is a clear link between mastering your own native language and learning a new language. Although there are limited research findings from Norwegian research communities, some foreign, not least American, studies among students who have Spanish as their mother tongue show that having a good knowledge of their mother tongue is not just a positive thing, but a basic assumption that one will succeed in later studies - studies that will mainly take place in the majority language in America, that is. English. Swedish studies show some of the same thing. Studies on the language development and school progress of minority children show the importance of mother tongue education, not only for the mother tongue and the majority language, but also for the development of a secure ethnic identity. According to these studies, pupils with native language education get better grades in Swedish, English and mathematics, the usual schools. They are safer, and they thrive better in school than other bilingual students, they master abstract concepts better than other bilingual students, and they learn a lot more about that country. So these studies show that there's a clear connection between mastering the native language and learning a different language. I also want to add that it will be a strength if we have people in this country who master the languages that minorities represent today. For our country, it will be a strength for these children to learn their own native language as well as possible. So the government parties will not remove the court, as Ine Marie Eriksen said, but propose certain adjustments and changes. What is certain after this bill is that the court is weakened, and that is the serious thing. When the court is weakened, one of them takes the right they have today. It's a pretty serious signal to give against these groups. I understand the department's argument. I can also accept it -- there's a lack of native language teachers, and that's a lot of mother tongues. As you were in, we have over 120 native languages. But one should also be aware that it's a small amount, there's a few native languages that you're talking about here, so that this is possible to solve. Then one also argues with local freedom that this must be organised locally. But then it is important to stress that today's legislation in any case does not restrict local freedom. One can also organise it educationally with today's legislation, so this amendment of the law leads to a weakening of students' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1032	The Christian People's Party is part of the majority in the position of the Church, Education and Research Committee which supports the Government's proposal to amend the Training Act and the Law on Free Schooling. Here I would like to limit my brief contribution to the question of specific language training for pupils from language minorities in primary school. The Christian People's Party believes that good training in Norwegian is important for successful integration into our society. The school and kindergarten are the most important instrument we have for providing Norwegian education to children and young people from minority groups. The amendment proposed by the Government is not a weakening of minority students’ rights to training in Norwegian or in native language. It is rather a clarification that specific training in Norwegian becomes the main instrument for minority students in primary school to have sufficient skills in Norwegian to follow the usual training at school. As long as the student does not have sufficient knowledge in Norwegian to follow the training, students will also be able to receive native language training and bilingual vocational training. The core of the legislative change is therefore that we strengthen the specific training in Norwegian. In the Christian People's Party we do not believe the practical consequence of today's law change will be so great. The representative from SV, Mr Reikvam, stressed the training in the language of his mother in his post. In the Christian People's Party, we believe the main challenge is to get successful language training in Norwegian. Here I am confident that teachers and schools will be able to assess which measures can deliver the best results. Too many children will be talking about developing a functional bilingualism where they master both the mother tongue and the Norwegian language. In many cases, the main challenges will be learning Norwegian, the language that is not used at home. Here experience shows that kindergarten is a major factor in the development of small children in Norwegian. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has put a stronger focus on training in Norwegian by presenting the action plan "Give room for reading" and the strategy plan "Equal Education in Practice". The latter shall improve learning and increase participation of minority speakers in kindergarten, school and education. This shows that the Government takes seriously the integration of minorities into our society. The Christian People's Party supports this work. The Christian People's Party is also willing, as opposed to the Advancement Party and the representative of Sortevik, to spend the money necessary for children and young people from minority groups to learn Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1043	As the vote on this matter shows, it is a co-consultant committee that joins two of the three proposals put forward by the Government in Ot.prp. No 55. Therefore, in my post, I will concentrate on the proposal specifically on language training for elephants from linguistic minorities in the base school, where the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV oppose the Government's proposal to amend the law. Let me first emphasize that it is necessary to be able to master Norwegian, both in writing and orally. A lack of Norwegian education will have negative consequences for the ability to acquire knowledge through the rest of the education, and not least in the workplace and in social relations with others. Norwegian management is undoubtedly a key factor in achieving successful integration. What everyone seemed to be a few about is the need to provide minority language pupils with better language training. There are undoubtedly weaknesses in the organisation we have today of the provision of minority-speaking elephants. I'm not going to suggest that many municipalities are tired of fulfilling the rights that students have. This is mainly because many places are difficult to reach competent language teachers and bilingual teachers. However, if it is the Achilles heel of the mother tongue education, the logical action will be to focus on the training and recruitment of such teaching staff, so that municipalities can gain relevant professional competence to strengthen the provision of pupils. Instead, the Government chooses here to weaken its rights to parental education and to reduce the teaching of the mother tongue with the exception of elephants with particularly poor Norwegian skills. It is worth noting here that the results of several hearing bodies, which point out that there is sufficient evidence through research to show that teaching in and in native language produces the best results when it comes to the linguistic and professional development of students, including the skills in Norwegian. As the Centre Party sees it, it may weaken the right of students to language teaching, make it difficult for them to build a foundation for further language training, and to take away the necessary travelers to become good in Norwegian. I think it's worth noting the warnings that come from teachers and schoolteachers working with elephants in a native language other than Norwegian. They fear that the result of the law changes will be more scholastic couples in a group of elephants there far from all, but many, everything meets tough challenges in the learning situation. It is close to suspecting that this amendment to the law is an expression of a desire to reduce public expenditure, under the cover of improved Norwegian education. I have to say that I understand that the department is looking at each other to reduce the budget in order to strengthen other areas. But in this field, I have to report that, in the opinion of the Central Party, the Government has some argument or professional evidence to defend the weakening of such a central right as the right to language teaching. What is presented here as a strengthening of Norwegian training is, in effect, seen as a reduction in the effort of an outsourced group of elephants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1061	It's a head of state who's been given the following statement: If my ideas are incompatible with reality, it's going to be bad for reality. This law, which we are now changing in relation to minority students, is primarily made at a time when there were two or three pieces that could easily be moved into a small, extra group room, and when you could easily find a native language teacher who could have the education to ask for extra income. What's happening now with the law change is not a downgrading-- no, it's actually an upgrade and an enhancement of what these students need, and it's an upgrade compared to reality. The system was created when these students were few, as these were exceptions. In fact, the students we're talking about here are always going to meet everyday life with only Norwegian education at some point in life. Some meet that challenge in high school, some meet it in high school, and some meet it in the future. I think it's best to meet that challenge when you have a good, reinforced system around you, as early as possible in age. Yes, there is little research on this. It is some Swedish researchers who actually prove how kids can live in many languages and master it very well. I can give you examples of that. But I see that there's little knowledge about this, and it's a pretty big contempt for all the teachers who work on this problem all day long. You can go around Oslo School after Oslo School where teachers have built up methods to work after -- they have knowledge of how to work, and lots of experience in how to give these kids the best possible base. There is a lot of knowledge about this in society. Teachers see this reality. This reality means that the Old Town school, which I belong to, has presented about 80 languages in its school. You think you see the principal who's going to go out and find native language teachers in 80 languages - in one school! Then you think you see the teachers who are going to find out whether the Pakistani student speaks Urdu, or whether it's actually Punjabi that student is going to be taught. This is great language, with great variations, and often you find a native language teacher who has a completely different angle in his language than his parents have. Arabic in Morocco and in Egypt is quite different. This quality is impossible to secure for the kids in real school days. But we here at the Stortinget like to cling to a beautiful law decision and some beautiful swings about how this should be, sail if we know that this is incompatible with reality. If you go into a school class on Tøenen which has integrated the language teaching to make it possible for kids to be able to follow the usual education quickly, you will experience that on Monday there may be seven teachers inside the classroom, representing the different mother tongues of the rivers that have had short experience of being in Norwegian school. But on Friday you will find only the Norwegian teacher there, because then they have organized this so that it is so integrated that the kids have concept learning on Monday, and then you work on the theme you have chosen for the week. But if you go to little Lise with long light hair on the first row, she will also be able to read the Urdu, because this is such a large integrated part of the teaching that she has also picked it up, as the school is organized. In the future, we'll probably have a school where all children are going to relate to different languages. They're going to have a grandmother who's from Pakistan, or grandparents who's from another country, or maybe Mom and Dad have studied in the Netherlands and the kids have gone to school there. This is going to be normal. And the more artificial we do it, the more bear service we do to these kids. So really, this law is a practical approach to reality. It's not a big change for the students involved. In Oslo there has been a broad consensus on this. Here, six parties have been sitting and managing the City Council power, where this has actually been the practice of the law. There's only one party in the city board that's always been against it, and it's RV. And then when I say that the quote "if my ideas are incompatible with reality, it gets worse for reality," comes from Stalin, we might understand that link.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1080	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1084	Several speakers have said that we take from minority language students the right to language training, and that we take away the rights they have today. Where these representatives who say that, have it from, I don't know. But I would like to quote the legal text that we are going to adopt today: "Students in primary school in a language other than Norwegian and Sami have the right to special Norwegian training until they have sufficient skills in Norwegian to follow the usual training in the school. If necessary, such learners also have the right to language training, bilingual vocational training or both." So this removes rights, is quite foreign to me. There's also been a lot of talk about research here. It's always so that you can draw up one researcher here and one researcher there. But I really thought I would stick to the researchers the Rikvam representative mentioned. First of all, it was interesting to see how an SV representative suddenly takes American research to income for his vision -- it's very rare. When he does that first, he ignores important things in that research. It is the case that the American researchers he referred to, Thomas and Collier, document good results in bilingual education, but it cannot simply be transferred to Norwegian relations with several languages in one class. So that's what separates the example with Spanish from the example in Norwegian classrooms. This was also pointed out by these researchers at a conference in Oslo on Friday 4 June. They recommended a model for group education which does not explicitly include parental education. Research is also available from Norway. In 2003, the forest wrote a report in which the teachers involved in the study believe that teaching in and on the mother tongue does not provide satisfactory benefits for the students, and that most of the mother tongue teaching takes place in their own small groups, sometimes across class steps, which thus seem segregated and non-integrative. I think it's pretty daunting when part of the representatives here tonight express it as if we're taking from someone a right, which we're not doing. I think it is more suitable to scare those who are in a school, who are going to have language teaching or bilingual vocational training, when these representatives believe that a right is being lost. So it doesn't. The focus changes from system to student. The rights are in place. There were no cuts anywhere, either in economics or in rights, so where this comes from, know, as I said, not me.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1100	The representative from the Left has described school everyday life as it can be some places in a country that has thus had a loose immigration policy over a long period of time, including, among other things, the United Kingdom. therefore ends up teaching native languages in a whole of 112 languages. It goes without saying that then it has grown beyond all reasonable and manageable limits. We in the Progress Party assume that when the Government promotes this matter, it is to have an effect. We assume that the main thing is not to waive any rights, but on the contrary to make sure that integration gets better. We read this matter as a good integration matter. In this we find support in the department's own assessment: "Such legislative proposals are formulated, special training in Norwegian will be the main instrument for minority-speaking elephants to acquire attractive skills in Norwegian in order to be able to follow the usual training at school, and thus to achieve good integration into Norwegian society." So I'm assuming that the purpose of the amendment is to get a good integrated effect, and that we're not talking about a small adjustment that shouldn't have any effect. We hope that it will be a good, large and clearly integrated effect. We would also like to stress that Norwegian is the mother tongue. It must also be that those who have come here, and want to be here, in their integration process, and in their integration spirit, after adapting to Norwegian conditions, are interested in learning Norwegian in a good and fast way. There is reason to stress that Norwegian normality is Norwegian, and Norwegian is the native language of Norway. There's also reason to stress that in this case -- which nobody talks about -- it's actually a parental responsibility, for parents of children with a minority background. In fact, it has to be a civic responsibility, a civil liability for those who are and will reside in the country, so that they gain good insight, good skills and good knowledge of the language that is the main language of the country you have chosen to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1114	Let me first take the opportunity to fix something. There are currently busy days in Stortinget, and I now got a correction from the teacher. In my post I was injured to say that there were bilingual students who received a scholarship today, but it is supposed to be bilingual teachers. - I actually thought I had told teachers, but then you can take it wrong! Then I notice that the Council of State itself is not willing to defend the matter here in the Storting, a matter of great disagreement about, and to which we are divided. Reference is made to practical problems as one of the main arguments. I would like to look at what other area, for example. in the hospital sector, one had pointed out that practical problems would weaken the rights. Flexibility is referred to. Today's law states that it is an obligation to provide the necessary language training, bilingual and specific Norwegian training until one can Norwegian well enough to participate in the vocational training in Norwegian. Then I ask myself, does that flexibility have to be capable of weighting between these components? That's when I say it's important to keep the right to the three components, for what goes from the proposition to which it is referred, and that is, among other things. is supported by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Local Affairs, which should have special attention to children and, in particular, to integration, there is sufficient evidence to establish that mother tongue training, together with Norwegian training, provides the best results. In fact, I believe that this is a weakening of the right. There's a graduation at least, on no basis. And when Ine Marie Eriksen will try to refute it, I have at least some moments. 19 hearings, i.e. almost half of the hearing bodies that opposed this change, had that very main objection. The Council of State itself has confirmed that some students will in fact receive a stricter assessment of the concept of "necessary" in the legal text. When the economic consequences are mentioned, a decrease is suggested and thus smaller transfers to municipalities are needed. I don't think that's coincidence either, but it's related to the fact that here there's a limitation of rights and a restriction of use.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1131	I need to make some comments, especially after Blackevik needed to indicate that we agreed. I think we have a very different approach to the 'unspent' immigration policy, as we are actually to open up too much more immigration, including labour immigration. But what's wrong with the Blackevik focus is that kids can do something extra is a problem. That kids can do an extra language can't be a problem! The problem with that legal text, the problem with the wording and the problem like we've organized the whole school, is that the kids who have been able to do something extra, that's another language, we've put in a separate room because there were some special problems with them. We know a lot from research, for example. Swedish research. I have personally spoken to a researcher who has gone to the depths of a Swedish family. My mother was Finnish, and my father was from an Arab country. Mom and Dad spoke English. Mother spoke Finnish to the kids, father spoke Arabic to the kids, and the kids spoke Swedish. The kids could tour all the four languages without any problems. And what the scientist said was that for most kids, there's no problem. For some it is a problem, and there you have to put extra measures in place. However, that assessment must be made from young to young people, and must be made in line with the assumptions made by young people. The problem with the law is that it has the wrong focus, namely that kids who can do something extra are a problem. This needs to be dealt with in particular, and not so that the young actually have to be introduced into the everyday life of school and society in which they actually live. Then I will give tribute to the Council of State in relation to that with bilingual teachers. It's not just because it increases the quality of school having bilingual teachers, it also has something to do with me thinking that teachers are authoritarians in society. All authoritarians in society must be recruited widely. And it's important that the kids who go to school on the east edge of Oslo, who have a minority background, are given the opportunity to see the reflection of themselves also behind the catheter. When I was traveling around as a school agency, I used to tell all the teachers that if you can get some of these kids to apply for school, you've done your whole teaching thing. So to Vidar Bjørnstad, who thought he had a link to the health care system in relation to mother tongue education. The link to the health care system is from my point of view: if anyone is in bed, are we going to make them very good at bedtime, or can we perhaps learn to start walking right away?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1151	I can't totally humiliate myself when the representative Bjørnstad takes the floor the way he does, in a warm defense of the mother tongue training. It's nice that he does, but he forgets the history of his own party and his own mayor's candidate, Rune Gerhardsen. Before the election campaign in 2001, Rune Gerhardsen of the Workers' Party had a campaign to remove the mother tongue education in Oslo School. The scope of consideration now probably also needs to be seen in the light of what the Workers' Party has been proposing. It is not the case that a stricter assessment of necessity means lapse of justice - far from it. But it actually means that when you have three components in a training course and maybe only need two, maybe you need one, or maybe you need all three, you have to make an assessment based on what's best for the student, not on how the system works. It is also interesting how Vidar Bjørnstad interprets the proposal as a cut in financial transfers to the municipalities. What is quite correct is: "If the amendment of the law leads to a decline in the number of elephants receiving language and/or bilingual vocational training, it could lead to " So there is no point in cutting anything, but you say that if there are fewer people who have this kind of training, and there is no need for the money, you should not transfer them either. But there is nothing in the proposal now that anything should be cut. Then I must almost be allowed to place a visit to Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. I don't understand how it's possible that a system that's more concerned with the students, more concerned with personalization, should be able to create more losers. On the contrary, it will create more winners. I think it is very important that there is now a grant scheme for minority language teachers. If this is so important - and has been so important - to the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, why in all the world did not Meltveit Kleppa implement such a scheme when she was the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1165	First, let me comment on Trine Skei Grande’s report that the law we have today was created at a different time. So the legal text we have today was created at the end of the last century. That's right, but it's not more than five to six years ago, and the time was not dramaticly different five to six years ago from today's situation. There were many immigrants, and we had many minority speakers at the end of the last century. So her report from there seemed dramatic. I hope we haven't said that the law deprives us of any rights. What we've tried to say is that the change that is now being made weakens students' rights to language training. That's what we tried to say. I don't understand the polemic that Ine Marie Eriksen runs, and it's a little unclear who she runs it against. Today’s legal text weakens students’ rights to language training. We in the minority have almost the same opinion as at least part of the majority. I understood Arne Sortevik's contributions so that he perceives it the same way as we do, that this leads to significantly less native language training. At least that's his intention. It is possible that Ine Marie Eriksen has a different intention, but at least he has that intention. He has expressed that clearly and unambiguously. So to that I referred to American research, and that it's not common for SVs to refer to American research. That was also a strange claim. For us, it's quite uninteresting where the research has been done. We have full confidence in research and the integrity of researchers. Whether the research has been carried out at an American university or carried out at a Norwegian university, we have full confidence in the research and the researcher as long as the research has been carried out in a proper and good way and endures the criticism that research is to endure. The new legal text adopted by the majority today does not allow for greater flexibility than that in today's legal text, even if it gives an expanded right to what is today's. Since its adoption, the municipalities themselves have full educational freedom and can facilitate training. Today's legal text, which is now being amended, does not restrict this freedom. There is no increased freedom in this, either for the municipality which is to provide the training or for those who are to demand it. It's the same thing. The only change is that someone gets a weakened right in relation to today's. I say that once again: they get a weakened right in relation to what is today's law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1178	I was provoked to a never so small comment. In this setting, a message from the Council of State is shown, which itself points to the fact that the law amendment for some elephants could in practice imply more stringent requirements for what is needed. This may, of course, mean that there is an elephant who is given the right to parent language training and thus to bilingual professional judgement. I don't understand why Ine Marie Eriksen should feel bored on her toes compared to the importance of incentives to secure more native language teachers, more bilingual teachers. She referred to my time as the Council of State. Now I was in a completely different department, but there is no doubt that the Bondevik I government put down a very significant effort for greater integration and against discrimination, among other things. by taking the initiative of the Centres against ethnic discrimination. It's been five years since the Bondevik I government. In fact, during that time, there has been a development that suggests that even more people need mother tongue teaching and Norwegian education, and there are reports that show how much it has to say that one has mother tongue knowledge, mother tongue teaching, as a basis for also tackling Norwegian education and integration in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1187	What makes me take the floor one more time is that of the representative, Mr Requams, who is trying to find out that there is a weakened right in relation to today. But then I have to say that the purpose of this amendment is to provide better Norwegian training. It is also intended, as the representative of Sortevik was involved, to ensure better integration through better Norwegian training. That's what's important. Then it is wrong for me when the representative Reikvam argues in such a way that one now expects to spend less money on this. That's not the goal. The aim is to provide better Norwegian training and thus better integration. Therefore, I reserve myself against the interpretation of today's decision that there will necessarily be so much less spending on the public budget. The point is that we should provide better Norwegian training, and thus better integration. I also find it a little strange when a person argues very strongly in relation to the language training. Of course, mother tongue training is important for one’s own identity, etc., but in Norwegian school, the mother tongue is a support function in relation to Norwegian education. Again, it is important to be clear that the purpose is better Norwegian training and better integration. I think those who oppose the amendment do not take that perspective sufficiently forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1194	I have to clear up a little misunderstanding in the posts of the representative Meltveit Kleppa, because she is just going beyond what is at the heart of the proposal. She says that this could lead to a weakened right to native language training and thus bilingual vocational training for some students. The whole point is, of course, that there will be a difference between those students who need language training, those who need increased Norwegian training and those who need bilingual vocational training. One doesn't rule out the other, and one doesn't depend on the other. So there's no correlation between, for example: shall not be taught in the language of the mother and not be trained in the bilingual language. I'm by no means bored on my toes. I think it's interesting to notice how what the Council of State is doing now appears to be very important and correct. One has had the opportunity to do something about the situation of bilingual teachers in Norwegian school in the past, without having done anything special about it. I also think it is a bit striking that the debate here is really intrigued to focus on mother tongue training. It has not really been focused on bilingual vocational training or on specific Norwegian training. It focuses on the teaching of native language. It is quite right, as the representative Lyngstad said, that in Norwegian school it is such that both bilingual vocational training, specific Norwegian training and native language training are support functions and tools for learning Norwegian well. It is not a subject that has a relevance in itself as a subject, but as a subject for learning Norwegian well enough to be able to follow the usual teaching in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1205	The next speaker is Vidar Bjørnstad. He has had the word twice, and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1209	I'm not going to extend the debate, but just say that I would stress that when we use the term "impaired rights" here, it's simply because it says in the proposition that: "Several hearing bodies refer to the research carried out in the field and express that weakening the bilingual training and the native language training did not seem to be consistent with the main gravity of this research. It'll be, among other things. pointing out that there is sufficient evidence through research that underlines that teaching in and in the mother tongue gives the best results when it concerns the linguistic and professional development of students and when it is necessary to acquire good skills in a new language". And on the other hand, "This is between the Barneombodet Children's and Family Ministry and the Municipal and Regional Ministry." This is not something we have sucked from our own chest. We do not want to weaken the rights, but simply to address the actual problems and use the flexibility that we believe is in the law, to provide adapted training.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1229	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 588]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1245	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1254	Document No The 8th proposal from the Progress Party, which we are now considering, concerns changes to the law on primary and secondary education. The proposal deals with whether a police record is to be required of those who are going to work in high school. The legislation of the day is clear in the case of primary schools and kindergartens. Here, applicants must provide a police record to show whether they have been intentional, accused or convicted of sexual assault against children. The proposers also want the law to be extended in such a way as to ensure that employees to whom an action is brought are suspended from their position. Document No The 8's deal with whether we're going to extend this scheme to high school as well. To put it that way, Document No. The 8 proposal received a thorough examination in the Committee, and a comprehensive committee then also asks the Government to carry out an overall review and evaluation of practices using police certificates in the education sector, in order to return to the Grand Duchy with a broad assessment of how the system of police certificates in the education sector should be designed in the future, including in the context of the use of police certificates in other fields of service. I stress that in the debate there have been views that suggest that other types of school should also be considered, such as public high schools and various types of centres of expertise and special schools. Furthermore, other services, such as the health sector, have been discussed. I am pleased that a joint committee now instructs the Government to review the scheme, primarily in view of an extension. However, the majority of the Committee is aware that, in principle, there will be no total right to discriminate between primary and secondary schools. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party, will today ensure that the law is amended in order to introduce demands for police attestations from persons to be admitted to secondary school. However, such a certificate will only contain information as to whether the applicant is a criminal conviction. The Labour Party has been clear in its position throughout the Committee's proceedings. I am pleased that both the Federation of Education and the National Association of Schools support a change in the law. On the other hand, the Ministry's letter of 19 March 2004 to the Committee has given rise to a little debate, as the department there categorically states that it is unnecessary to change the rules of the day. And the obvious thing here is that this is how the ministry gives the impression that today's rules are good enough -- here you don't have to move a decimal. Furthermore, the Council of State’s response gives the impression that the recent debate reveals that the police are dealing with more and more abuses where both child pornography, abuse and sexual harassment of children are not fully addressed. The public debate and the public information available indicate that there is some scope for addressing this issue. I am therefore very pleased that the government parties are also now instructing the Government and asking for a review of the legislation both in the school sector and in other sectors. The Committee has been particularly concerned with stressing the responsibility of school owners and school management to create the best possible environment for learning and to provide students with a safe educational situation. Parents should be safe for their children both in school and kindergarten. From the Labour Party we see no reason not to use the precautionary principle. The safety of children and young people must be overall in a educational situation. The goal must be to avoid criminal cases where students have been abused or sexually harassed by their teachers or others. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1277	The representative Eva M. Nielsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1280	The present attitude does not surprise us that there is a broad consensus that children and young people should have a safe and secure school environment where abuse of students should not take place. Therefore, the disagreement in the timing applies to different assessments of the extent to which current legislation is sufficient to ensure that the safety and security of students is safeguarded, insofar as laws and regulations can prevent such abuses. So the disagreement doesn't mean that some people are more concerned with preventing assault than others. The approach is a bit confusing, as there is an overall committee that asks the Government to carry out a comprehensive review and evaluation of current practices in the use of police attestations in the education sector, with a view to bringing the Government back with a broad assessment of how the system of police certificates should be designed in the future, including in the context of the use of police certificates in other areas. At the same time, however, there is a majority in the committee that, in any case, will draw one conclusion immediately: the law on the submission of a police certificate is to be extended to those who are to be recruited in high school. Government parties do not agree with the requirement that today's law on police record of employment in primary school should also be extended to secondary school. The main reason for this is that there does not seem to be the same need for such an extension to the law, while a new rule will only provide a modest degree of certainty against students being subjected to abuse. It will be possible to ensure that persons convicted of previous abuses are excluded from employment in higher education, but there is no guarantee that non-criminals also do not commit abuses. This also admits the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party in the vote, where they warn that the introduction of a police certificate should not be a sleeping cushion, but only a supplement to other measures. At the same time, it is unclear what they really mean to achieve with the proposal, in addition to being a signal to potential offenders that they are aware of the problem. Personally, I am convinced that any offenders know very well that their actions are both illegal and condemned by society, seafaring without a requirement for a police record of employment. It is asked whether the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party are closer to the truth when they state in the notes that the introduction of a police record can be a simple tool. The faction correctly warns against this, but it may well be wanted to act decisively in the matter, even if the real effect of the measure is and will be questionable, in my opinion. The government parties believe that we already have rules in the Education Act that give school owners and schools sufficient authority to intervene against those who may pose a threat to the safety and security of students. I am not going to repeat the details of the suspension, but there is also reason to recall that Section 29 of the Criminal Code gives the courts the right to dissuade a person from holding a post "that the guilty person in the criminal act has proved unfit or to be afraid of wanting to abuse or that specifically requires public trust." There is already an instrument in place to respond to criminal offences that should disqualify from school work. It is also natural to stress that rules which in practice mean a professional ban are not, in principle, inconspicuous. Of course, you can object to the fact that you have found reason to ignore these principal concerns about primary school. Is it more of a concern to do the same for high school? I think it might be, simply because high school students have a different need for protection. They have a need for protection, but it is different from that of small children. Where do you actually put the limit? Even now, other types of schools are being discussed, for example. National Colleges. But why stop there? The opposition has thought about the minds of apprentices in apprenticeships, who not only meet a supervisor and a boss, but a whole bunch of employees, potentially several hundred. If you haven't thought about it, does it mean accepting less security for apprentices than for school students? Until a comprehensive review of today's practice of using police certificates is available, perhaps the safest thing to do is to stick to what we already have in legislation in this area, i.e. until properly reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1302	Together with the representatives of Ursula Evje, Karin S. Woldseth and Jan Arild Ellingsen, I have made private legislative proposals that a police record should also be required for applicants for work in high school. The background is as follows: When the current training law came into force in 1997, provision was made for requiring a police record in primary school employment. The certificate shall show whether the person is intentional, accused or convicted of sexual assault against children. The Progress Party was at that time alone to require police clearance even when engaged in high school. There is still no reason for the party to provide lower protection for secondary school students than for primary school students. Timeliness is as follows: Several issues relating to sexual abuse by high school employees have been discussed in the media in the last year. In this context, there has been a focus on missing police certification requirements and that employees who have been convicted and sonnet can actually be re-employed in high school because the certificate requirement is missing. The proposal of the Progress Party has been put to the hearing. It is interesting and important that several important consultation parties now support the proposals of the Progress Party for legislative change. The Association of Education and the National Associations of Schools supports the proposal to require police certification in high school employment. These are employee organisations, and therefore support is important and in principle. The parental committee for primary school, which does not have a proper mandate for secondary school but which nevertheless represents the organised parenthood at national level, also supports the proposal in substance. I refer to the proposal put forward by the Progress Party in the vote, which is a concrete proposal to amend the text of the law, both the Training Act and the Law on Free Schooling. This means that the proposals of the Progress Party allow those who want to make changes to the law today, with effect from today. The Party of Progress has included an extension, namely the provision for suspension of employment when a member of staff is out of office or accused of sexual assault. This relationship also covers a part of recent events that have updated the issue: a teacher who is under charge but who continues to be in a position in daily contact with students. The point of view of the Advancement Party is that consideration for the employee must be given to the consideration of the students. Therefore, the Progress Party also proposes a suspension arrangement included in the legislative text. The Progress Party notes that we are not getting agreement to change the law today. It's a shame for the students. The Progress Party has taken note of the comments made by the Council of State on the legislative proposal. I quote: "Youth in high school is believed to have greater opportunities to protect itself from abuse, even though a student is often in a certain dependency with an adult. Nevertheless, because of school obligations and the age of students, the arguments for a safe and secure environment are stronger in the case of compulsory school." This is a vision The Progress Party does not share, and with which we, on behalf of the superior and students, are not satisfied. Nevertheless, the Progress Party is pleased with the outcome of the initiative we have taken. An overall committee will have a notice to extend the requirement of police certification to other schools and assess the extension of the content of the police certificate to other serious criminal acts. In addition, there is a proposal from the Labour Party, the SV and the Central Party for the Stortinget to introduce a police record in high school, but a certificate that merely states whether the applicant is convicted, i.e. not intentional or accused. Nevertheless, this is an important step in the right direction, and the Progress Party is satisfied with this. We are pleased that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre take this matter seriously and see the concrete need for legislative change. The matter has, as the rapporteur said, been dealt with in depth. We've spent time on it. We have the impression that SV in particular has spent time on it. They've been in doubt, but we're glad they've doubted the position presented here today. The Progress Party will therefore support the proposal of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre when it will be discussed later. In this way, we get a case of changes in the law, and we get extended protection for high school students. That is why we are pleased that our initiative leads to good results for high school students. I hear from the representative Eriksen from the Right that there is more to problem than taking measures that can improve the situation and safety of high school students. We just have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1343	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The regulatory time for today’s evening meeting has now come to an end. The President proposes that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1348	SV has repeatedly supported and promoted proposals for the use of police attestations in recruitments in posts that will involve a high level of contact with children and where the position implies a relationship of power and trust with children that makes children particularly vulnerable. For example, the benefits of a police record are: the disclosure of persons who have previously committed abuse of children, and the possibility of preventing them from applying for positions involving a high degree of power and trust in relation to children. We know from experience that this often happens. Among other things, SV helped to ensure that non-governmental organisations could require police certification from their applicants, for example. when travelling to developing countries and performing relief work, because the voluntary organisations had seen that there were a number of intruders applying for exactly this type of job. The advantage of police certification is that it gives a signal effect, that you send a signal from the organisation or the company that we are paying attention to the problem of abuse, and here you follow. At the same time, there are some quite obvious pitfalls that also make us in many of these cases uncertain. Some of the pitfalls are about to become a sleep cushion, that you think you've done what you need to do, to prevent abuse, and that you forget that the few attackers are actually being convicted. Most of them get away. Most victims don't report, maybe not until many, many years have passed. I also believe that several of the parties have tended to point out that we have now introduced police clearance, or have made other acts that have really not been so important, in order to avoid granting money and taking some important steps that could really have the monnet if we both want to prevent child abuse and help the children who have been subjected to abuse. The Progress Party is constantly promoting new proposals for police clearance. But where is the party when the victim of the assault needs them the most? Where is the Progress Party when it comes to treatment for offenders? We know that it's useful to treat a lot of attackers, and we also know that some victims of sexual assault actually commit assaults when they get older. It's quite tragic to think that these people could have been helped at an early stage, if you had been willing to, for example. bet at the Institute for Clinical Sexology and Therapy, Alternatives to Violence and other treatment services. The national resource centre for sexually abused children has also built up competence in this area, but it has not been prepared to support it. The progress party used to tell me that SV had such touching concern for the attackers. But that's not what this is about. It is simply a matter of believing that by investing in treatment provision and by focusing on relief measures, we can avoid new victims in the future. It should be the head of everyone in this room, and then you'd better add a hopeless attack that this is about caring for someone that everyone condemns. I wonder why the Advance Party wants to cut the child protection. No later than Friday and night until Saturday, I was on the job with the Children's Guard, and we heard a lot about care failure, assault, incest in families and that the Child Protection Guard is moving out and helping children out of hell. But the Progress Party, at least by the representative John I. Alvheim, wants to put down child protection, or to cut child protection. So it's so pointless! It's dangerous, it's unwise, and it's an assault on children! Why does the Progress Party not want to ensure the reception of rape? Where has the Progress Party been in that matter? Where was the Progress Party when SV submitted Document No. The 8th proposal to secure the incest centers? Where were the rest of the parties? There was no one who would support SV's proposal to legislate the incest centers. No one would support the proposal for an 80-20 model. No one would support the proposal for a nationwide telephone line. No one would support the proposal to have a secretariat for the incest centers. There is a significant deficit in political will to help victims of sexual abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1365	Violence and sexual abuse against children and young people in school are unacceptable and a serious breach of trust. Children and young people have the right to a safe school environment, and it is a responsibility for school management to prevent school staff from using their trusted position. On this basis, the Christian People's Party has supported the introduction of police certification requirements when added to primary school. This police certificate shows employers whether they are intentional, accused or convicted of sexual assault against children. In the case of additions to secondary education, there is also reason to be aware that jobs can be abused and abuses against young people are taking place. The legal provisions of the Training Act on the Psychosocial Environment make it clear that responsibility lies with school owners and school managers in ensuring a safe environment for students. Furthermore, the school owner shall take measures to prevent any of the school staff from committing abuses in relation to the students. We also have provisions in the criminal law that allow the courts to dissuade a person from holding a post, as the representative Ine Marie Eriksen referred to. The Christian People's Party wants the courts to make such an assessment more actively than they do today. I feel that we already have good regulations that guarantee students the right to a safe school environment. The question arises as to whether a police record of recruitment is an additional appropriate instrument to increase the safety of students against violence and sexual assault. In the Christian People's Party, we recognize that such an introduction will be an additional emphasis on and a symbol that we do not accept violence and sexual abuse in high school. However, I am in doubt that a police record will really increase students' safety. That is why the Christian People's Party has been committed to a comprehensive review and evaluation of practices using police certificates in the education sector. We need a broader assessment of this measure when we come to institutions dealing with young people and young adults. Unlike the representative of Sortevik, I think we should be able to assume that children and minors will have a greater need for protection than young people and young adults. In doing so, we must also be able to take other fundamental considerations into account in the assessment, for example. there is a general consensus that convictions will have a chance of returning to society. In the Christian People's Party, we think it's the most neat thing to do this overall assessment before concluding on how the system of police certification should be designed. That is why we will not support the proposal of the Labour Party, the SV and the Central Party in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1376	The central party supports the change in the training law when the requirement for police attestation for all those who are added to kindergarten and elementary school was made effective. So today we are discussing a proposal from the Progress Party on the introduction of police clearance in the secondary school. The proposal will be made, among others: in the light of several cases of infringements detected in the last year. I'm probably sharing the opinion that has been claimed by several here, that there are differences between kindergarten and elementary school and further education. However, we have come to the conclusion that it is not right to have different decisions when adding them to primary and secondary schools at this point. Elves in the secondary school shall have the same requirement for protection against infringements. It is precisely the requirement of the student safety that weighs heavily in the Central Party’s assessment of the proposal. Elevar and the envoys shall feel safe to add to their meetings in the school day. They should feel safe that they added are not doomed to sexual assault. Today's legislation does not, in our opinion, provide adequate management facilities for school owners to prevent convictions from being added to the continuing school. Then we know that many attackers for the first are never revealed, and that police evidence has limited effect when it comes to preventing abuse. Therefore, as the option says, transparency about the theme abuse is important. Acknowledgment of staff and elephants that abuse may occur is itself an important prevention measure, as well as a police record. The setting shows that there are different views on whether a police certificate should be introduced, as proposed by the proposers, and what a police certificate should be held. As stated in the proposal from the Central Party, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we believe that the police certificate should only contain information about the seeker is condemned for assault or not. Then there's a different kind of school than basic and continuing school, for example. public high school, which is not covered by the proposal. We are therefore pleased that a joint committee of government will take a full review of the practice of using police certificates in the education sector and a broad assessment of how the system of police certificates should be designed. Finally, let me stress that the prevention of abuse against children and young people must be done at many levels. Interpret treatment is only one of many measures. However, the amendment of the training law, which means the introduction of police certification for admission to secondary school, is an important step in this work, both because it can be a direct help in an admission procedure and because it gives a signal effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1391	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1395	It was said by the representative Arne Sortevik that I was most concerned about problematizing. But I can promise the representative, Sortevik, that I do not want to at all problem young people's need for protection. What I want, on the other hand, to problematize, and which I might wish more people in the committee did, was that we are opposed to another important area when we discuss the issue of police certification. In the main proposal of the Progress Party, they would like a police record if "it is taken out of sight or charged against an adjournment". Taking out a mission or a charge is very far from punishing. A aim is often taken to strengthen the rights of a person who is suspected of anything, not to weaken them. It's far from there to be punished. It is a fundamental principle in Norwegian law that everyone is innocent until the opposite is proved, and proven in this context means decided by a judgment of law. It doesn't mean aim or charge. We're dealing with sensitive things. The Committee is also aware of this. This is a type of case where it is easy and quick to get wrongly blamed or suspected of having done something wrong. It shall not entail a professional ban. I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party, which usually tends to say that they're very concerned with legal certainty, doesn't see those issues. In addition, I'm a little surprised at why the Femschritt Party does not have more problems with the fact that all convicted people have the right to come back to society after they have served their sentence and settled themselves. This applies to all types of convictions, whether you've been snooping at the store or committing a murder. But that doesn't mean that every person who has committed sexual assault or killing is going to get a job in high school, far from it, but at least that's the point that everyone has a right to and should have a right to come back to society after you've done their punishment. If you didn't have that right, you could just lock criminals into life and never take them out again. So one should have a little bit more principleal thinking about what goes on where to set the limits on which crimes are to qualify for a ban on employment, the principle of intention and prosecution, which is, therefore, far from a conviction, and also the principle that everyone has and should have a right to return to society after being punished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1408	First of all, the previous speeches in relation to the aim, the charge and the sentence. So that's the way I tried to say that we want to copy the legal text from what's going on in primary school to apply to high school, and then the answer is given. We're going to have the exact same thing, and we're going to use the same terms. I am surprised that the Right has not taken the statements from among others. The training union's employee organisation for information, where they support our proposal to require a police record without any restrictions and without reservation. The problem of professional bans should be well taken care of by the large union of workers. I also tried in my main post to express that we put greater emphasis on the students, in this case high school students, than on those who are convicted, have earned their punishment and are going back into society. It can't be natural or a statutory right to get a job as a high school teacher, no matter what you have done before applying for such a job. But what made me take the floor was, of course, the post from the SV representative, Inga Marte Thorkildsen. I could have chosen to be provoked in relation to this with child protection, as I actually know a lot about child protection, and since I have actually taken the initiative and carried out the country's only public consultation on child protection in Norway's second largest city in the autumn of 2000 - I would like to provide documentation to the representative - but I should not. I think that is still the case, until we are going to deal with the proposal that SV has also been involved in, that SV actually supports proposals that they have submitted. I had actually believed that when there was a post from an SV representative who agreed to introduce a police record, you would actually stick to it, but you haven't. So this went from what started meaningfully, to what became completely meaningless. We're talking in this private bill about closing a hole. There's a hole in the sense that there's an inequality between two schools in basic education. That's what the Progress Party wants not to have. We want equal treatment for pupils in basic education. We want the same security for those who go to high school, as for those who go to primary school, to the extent that the requirement for a police record provides security and some security. We'll also stress that of course it's not enough, and that it's not going to be a sleeping cushion. It's not the intention either, but we're removing a completely unnecessary inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1419	In contrast to my colleague, Mr Sortevik, I actually got provoked by the comments of the representative, Mr Thorkildsen. The husband of an attack on the Progress Party, I have rarely heard from someone who seems to work for the same reason and pulls the same load. As a committee member of the family committee, I experience SV as a party we work well with. Then it becomes completely incomprehensible to me that the SV representative then until those degrees go to attack us. Then I have to clear up an obvious misunderstanding. I was the case rapporteur on the Incest Centres, where an overall committee actually asks for this case to come back to the autumn, for an information from the Government on the offer to be made by the centres, how to organise and finance the offer and whether to legislate for the offer. SV was the proposer for the incest centers, but I can't exactly say that one invites to cooperate by going to those degrees of frontal attack on the Progress Party. That's not good. Also in relation to this issue of child protection, I think Thorkildsen is incredibly unfair to the Progress Party. We have fought the case of children's protection, and we were, thanks to the representative Sortevik, who managed to initiate the whole process of child protection in Bergen, and also the matter of compensation for the former children's protection. Yeah, we want to put down child protection -- in its present form -- but that doesn't mean that it shouldn't be anything instead, maybe something even better and something that can take hold of everyone in the right way. So I would encourage the representative Thorkildsen to be a little bit more humble, not look at this so black and white, but be open to cooperation with the Advance Party. Because I think that at the bottom both SV and I believe in the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1428	I did not allow myself to be provoked by the representative of Thorkildsen, but it was good to have a break in the lettering in the office. I have been accused of provoking Thorkildsen earlier, she has even called me a liar, so it is my pleasure to stand on the pulpit of the Stortinget and reclaim to the representative Thorkildsen: the husband of lying content as in the post she held in the hall here, I have never heard! Let me first take care of child protection. The party of progress has never proposed putting down the child’s protection. We have proposed that child protection should be abolished as a separate institution, because it has always been harmful to the child. We have simply proposed introducing a system in which the protection of the child is concentrated through the institutions that actually work with the child: school, social services, police, etc. That's what SV has voted against. They have clung to the existing child protection that has proven that they have injured hundreds of children. It is the policy of the Progress Party. We were the first party to make such a proposal. We still haven't had a majority for that. It will probably take a 4-5 years before SV discovers that it is a very good proposal, just as SV discovered that my proposal in 1998 about 80-20 pst. the financing of crisis centres has become very good today. They didn't mean that in 1998. It's interesting to notice the setting as well, in relation to what the case is actually about-- the police record. So the representative Thorkildsen is standing here on the platform and criticises the Progress Party for not wanting to be on an 80-20 pst. financing of the incest centres. But we also say in the setting that we will assess, and we ask the Government to come back with an assessment of that funding, just as SV has doubted that they are asking the Government to come back with proposals to amend the training law and the law on high school in this case. So SV acts exactly the same way that the Progress Party has done before. When we do that, it's critical, but when SV and the representative Thorkildsen do it, that's two different things. I would recommend that the representative Thorkildsen should first and foremost be briefed in the landscape that SV has been in in the last two periods on the Stortinget. At the same time, I would also recommend that the representative be a little lower than the accusations made against the Progress Party. We have a clean agenda in relation to taking care of the children, while SV has an agenda in which they will protect those who work in the different institutions and who will protect the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1440	The President would point out that identifying other people's posts as "untruth" is hardly a parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1443	There is a lot I could have taken up on this post. But I find it strange that the representative Sortevik characterises it as pointless that I am bringing forward a whole range of measures that are of much greater importance to incestuous and perpetrators than the question of police record. SV supports the introduction of police certification requirements also in high school. But we are, in fact, drivers to get a lot of other measures going that really have a direct impact on incestants and other children who are struggling, among other things. with family abuse. If the representative Karin S. Woldseth did not confirm what was my criticism of the view of the Progress Party on Child Protection, I must say at least that the representative Per Sandberg was able to confirm it. The problem is that the Progress Party in all cases where child protection takes a wrong step is on the sidelines and heaths, while the party has not taken over all of the issues where children have not been helped because they have not dared to intervene or because they have chosen to bet on all of the networks that the children already have, for example. MST. MST can be good and good, but it can also be problematic because you can't see the child enough, and because you build up networks that are basically harmful to the children, because it's about the preservation of the family. This is a big discussion. I just want to mention that I was invited by the National Children's Association to attend a film called "Fia and the Clovers," which I'm sure no one in the Progress Party has seen. I understand that Karin S. Woldseth has seen it, and that's good. Then I also hope that the representative Woldseth learned something from that film. It was about children in many contexts having a high need for protection outside their home, in foster homes, for example. The National Association for Children's Protection was very concerned that the representative John I. Alvheim of the Progress Party is destroying the children's ability to get proper help, in the criticism he made against child protection when it was at worst. They wanted to focus on the fact that it also benefits, that children can get help from child protection, that children can have a new and better life even if they are taken out of the family, if the family is harmful to them. And I believe that the Progress Party has not been willing to see. Then it's true, as the representative Karin S. Woldseth says, that we work together well in many things. But the representative Woldseth cannot demand that I just stand on the sideline and applaud, without criticising, when there is reason to raise the question of a concrete action in relation to the incest centers. It is not just a decision of intent to come back in 2004, but actually concrete action in relation to the reception of rapes, in terms of the training of all those working with children, and a wide range of other relevant measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1456	Now, for a moment, I had to read the text of the case that we're dealing with, that it's a police certificate from people who are applying for work in high school, that we actually have for treatment here. As far as incest is concerned, I think perhaps the representative of Thorkildsen should talk to his members in the committee, as is the case with MST, to which she referred, to which SV has joined the committee. When it comes to what Woldseth is learning and not learning, I've gone to school -- I've worked at social services and I've been in child protection subjects, so I think maybe I've learned in life's school. And maybe the representative Thorkildsen should take a walk out and see if she doesn't have anything to learn there too. Of course, children should receive help. But the most important thing has already been said, and I will not withdraw this meeting by raising me up more than I already do. It's good that we have a common understanding of the need to have a police record for those who work in high school. Then we're going to have to hope that we can now leave this debate behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1469	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 589]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1477	We are ready to go to voting in case No. 1-7.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1553	The President has understood it so that the Progress Party will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1577	The Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1616	The President has understood that the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are moving towards the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1699	The President has understood that the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1890	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e1900	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e2022	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e2032	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e2040	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Kukkestad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Ola D. Incense on behalf of the Centre Party The President will first vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, on repatriation to the Government. The proposal reads as follows: "Ot. pp. paragraph 43 on the law on amendments to the law relating to legal proceedings, etc. sent back to the Government for a further assessment of other models, including the assessment of curious persons and other persons admitted to the proceedings and the Central Bank of the State. [[2003-2004]] It is specifically requested that the coordination of these authorities be assessed by a familial authority, which is essentially equivalent to the Swedish model. An assessment of the other tasks which may be added to such a new body is also requested. Consideration shall be given to the distinction between judicial and executive powers and how this can be resolved by adding the overall responsibility for the settlement councils to the administration of the Court of Justice."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3080	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3216	Paragraph 16, first paragraph, contains an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "In Act No. 4 August 1995 No. 53 on the police are amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 16 is replaced by the following: Police districts are subdivided into county districts or police station districts and county districts. In a county or police station district, the lieutenant or police station chief has the head of police under the chief of police. In a pedigree district, the tasks that the law adds to the lenender and the pedigree are to a pedigree office as a separate holding managed by a pedigree. The division of Countys and Districts of Merchants is determined by the King. The King also determines how the division of districts shall be in relation to the Norwegian part of the continental shelf and areas outside the territorial sea to which Norwegian law applies." As the Progress Party wishes to oppose the vote, the proposal from the Centre Party is first put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3236	The Committee's position on the first paragraph of Section 16 and the rest of the paragraphs of the Police Act, as well as the laws under No. 38-42 and II. So the progress party wants to go against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3250	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Advance Party will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3264	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3275	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3283	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government asks the government to promote its own case for the Storting, where the settlement of refugees and asylum seekers is assessed in the context."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3355	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3365	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3373	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 3-6, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: "The decision asks the Government to investigate the consequences of repealing Section 12 of the Foreign Affairs Act on a residence permit." Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, says: "The government is asking for a permanent arrangement where a voluntary organisation is responsible for information and offers of individual conversations with asylum seekers after arrival." Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, says: "The ruling also asks the Government to maintain today's system of three hours of free trial in first instance proceedings, but with a differentiation so that the presumed groundless cases are given two hours free of trial. The lawyer shall be awarded locally upon arrival at reception." Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, says: "The Government is asking for action to be taken to give persons with defined Dublin II cases three hours free of charge in the appeal proceedings." These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3437	For the new third paragraph, there are two divergent proposals. That is proposal No. 2 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the The second paragraph of Section 29 is first contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3452	No, President, the Socialist Left Party wants to go against the whole of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3459	The President will note that there would have been an advantage if this had been prepared in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3462	It was made clear during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3469	It is then first voted on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The third paragraph of Section 29 of the Foreign Affairs Act shall be replaced by the following:Foreigners who have a work permit or residence permit may only be expelled if the criminal relationship may result in a prison sentence for more than one year, or if the criminal law § 228 first paragraph, 237, 342 first paragraph, points (b) or (c), 352 (a), 384 or 385 is violated. Deportation shall not be decided unless there is a recurrence or, in particular, a serious breach of the law."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3486	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The third paragraph of Section 29 of the Foreign Affairs Act shall be replaced by the following:A foreign national who has a work permit or residence permit may only be expelled if the offence may result in a prison sentence for more than three months."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3503	We then vote on the proposal for Section 29 second and new third paragraphs. The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have said that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3521	This is a technical matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3548	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The second paragraph of Section 30 of the Foreign Affairs Act (b) shall be replaced by the following:(b) where the foreigner has been or has been penalised for conditions which under Norwegian law may result in a prison sentence for one year or more, and this has occurred less than five years ago in the rest of the world or less than one year ago in this country. Similarly, in the event of an imposed special reaction resulting from criminal offences as referred to." The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they are moving towards the adjustment. It is therefore first voted on the proposal from the Progress Party, then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3612	The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are also opposed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3625	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3635	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3660	B, C, D and E shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3667	During the debate, Mr Vardevik, on behalf of the Progress Party and Mr Simonsen, presented the following proposal: "The government is asking the government on its own initiative to explain the continuation of resources allocated to the government budget chapter. 221 item 65 through the coordination of the two strategic plans "Give room for reading!" and "Equal education in practice" from the time proposed change in § 2-8 of the Training Act and § 3-5 of the Free School Act enter into force." This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3717	The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have announced that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3841	The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have announced that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3879	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3889	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e3896	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Eva M. Nielsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 2-4, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. Proposal No 1 by the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, reads: "The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals for the amendment of the Training Act and the Free School Act, in order to introduce a requirement for a police record from persons to be admitted to secondary school.The police certificate shall contain only information as to whether the applicant is convicted of a criminal offence." Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: "During the autumn of 2004, the Government is asked to assess whether the provisions of the Law of Education and the Law of Secondary Education should be extended to other types of school and educational institutions, as well as whether the content of the police certificate should be extended to include other serious criminal offences." These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen. Proposal No. 2 sounds: "Decision to the Act amending Law 17 July 1998 No. 61 on primary and secondary education II Law 17 July 1998 No. 61 on primary and secondary education is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 10-9 is replaced by the following: [[training law]] [[training law]] The certificate shall show whether the child is intentional, accused or convicted of sexual assault against children. Persons convicted of sexual assault against children cannot be added to primary and secondary schools.Sections 10 to 9 of the second paragraph are replaced by the following:The Community may require police certification after the first paragraph also for other persons who regularly remain in primary school. The county may require police clearance after the first paragraph for other persons who regularly remain in the secondary school.Sections 10 to 9, third and fourth paragraphs, are replaced by the following:If there is an outsourcing or charge against an in-service or secondary school for sexual assault, this shall be suspended from any position which could lead to contact between the defendant and the offended. Such a suspension shall apply until the judgment in force is delivered.The Ministry shall give more detailed instructions.This Act shall enter into force immediately." Proposal No. 3 sounds: "Decisions to the Law amending the Law of 4 July 2003 No. 84 on independent schools II Act of 4 July 2003 No. 84 on independent schools is amended as follows:Sections 4 to 3 are replaced by the following:The person to be admitted to a primary school and a secondary school approved under the laws here must produce a police certificate. [[post-secondary non-tertiary]] [[post-secondary non-tertiary]] The certificate shall show whether the child is intentional, accused or convicted of sexual assault against children. Persons convicted of sexual assault against children cannot be admitted to primary and secondary schools.The board may require police certification after the first paragraph also for other persons who regularly behave in primary and secondary schools.If there is an out-of-school sieving or indictment against an accomplice in primary or secondary school for sexual assault, it shall be suspended from any position which could involve contact between the accused and offended. Such a suspension shall apply until the judgment in force is delivered.The Ministry shall give more detailed instructions.This Act shall enter into force immediately."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e4005	This proposal for a decision will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud507e4016	There is no record.
