ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e64	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Sylvia Brustad from 6 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative of the Hedmark County, Grethe G. Fossum, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e82	Grethe G. Fossum is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e88	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e103	Document No 8:3 for 2004-2005 is a proposal from the Progress Party to repeal the market regulation of eggs and poultry. There is an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, in favour of continuing market regulation. The Committee refers to letters from the State Council of Sponheim of 25 October, which are annexed to the resolution and which adequately substantiate why it is not appropriate to repeal it. It is also important to stress that it is not correct that only agricultural cooperation is supported, as stated in the proposal of the Progress Party. Market regulation also benefits other market players through market stability and predictability. The turnover tax is also used to finance joint actions that benefit the entire industry, including: through competence and quality. It is also important that, once the country has concluded an agreement with agriculture in the agricultural settlement of the year, the agreement is to be complied with by both parties. Since the market regulation for eggs and poultry is covered by the agreement, it is not correct for the Storting to change this in the middle of the contract period. In Document No: 8:3 from the Progress Party, reference is made to the WTO negotiations and what may result from them. The majority sees that there may be challenges, but before any agreement is reached, it would be wrong to abolish regulation in this context as well. The Committee's position is promoted by the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, and we recommend that Document No. 8:3 for 2004-2005 is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e120	Initially, I would like to take the opportunity to correct two obvious errors. In the proposal, we do not say, as the case-law rapporteur Aud Gaundal says, that the private cannot receive support. It says in the proposal that they can get, but that is not the usual. The second error is in the setting, on page 2, where there is an error in the proposal from the minority, i.e. the Progress Party. In line 4 of the proposal, it reads ‘with effect from 1 July 2006’. It shall be ‘1. July 2005’, so I ask that it be corrected. The Progress Party has long been alone in the fight for the deregulation and modernisation of Norwegian agriculture so that at least some of these activities can be sufficiently robust to survive further, when the customs walls are gradually reduced or fallen. We are no longer alone in holding these points of view. The private meat industry also believes it is absolutely necessary to start the process now. Taking eggs and poultry out of the Sales Act creates a level playing field for private operators and cooperatives and will allow for lower consumer prices. It is important first to gain experience in some areas, something to which eggs and poultry are suitable, due to a transparent market. There is also a relatively short period between the decision on production and the product is clear for sale. Here it is possible to make a production planning with adaptation of production for consumption. The poultry market should be manageable in order to avoid over-production and achieve more efficient resource use without market regulation. It is also important to stress that the production of regulated products such as chicken is being undertaken as a pure commercial activity. Nor does production have a major impact on agricultural policy and include a small number of producers. It would therefore be convenient for operators to adapt to a market if market regulation were to be removed. Chicken production has much the same pressure throughout the year, and there is therefore no need for a regulatory obligation to be able to handle this market. A letter from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Committee concludes that the market regulation for eggs and poultry meat should be continued. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the offer made by the State in the agricultural negotiations of the year, where the Ministry correctly points out that there is very little need for market regulation of chicken and that there are no major problems in adapting to market needs through regulation of production by each actor. The private poultry producers say it plainly: there is no need for market regulation for chicken. An example of this is this year's transport worker strike, which documents the superfluous nature of the regulation. The strike lasted four weeks and five days, about the same length as the life course of a chicken. The private slaughterhouses collected throughout the period from the farmers slaughtered normally and frozen at their own storage. The private operators started early during the strike process a adaptation of eggs incubation to chicken, thus also future chicken intake, in order to create a future market room for the marketing of already produced product. The costs of all of this activity are covered without subsidies from turnover funds or from other public funds. Nor can the obligation to supply and the situation vis-à-vis the consumer be used as an argument for maintaining market regulation. The regulation stock represents a few weeks of consumption in the Norwegian market, i.e. almost three weeks shorter than the duration of the transport worker strike. There have been no situations that are perceived as serious or dramatic to consumers for that reason. The Party considers that there is no need for market regulation for chicken as evidenced by the situation of the transport worker strike. The private slaughterhouses tackled the situation in a market with significant challenges. I would like to stress that the strike did not trigger any special activity towards Prior as a market maker. The background is that the market functioned quite well, given the natural competition between market players. There is therefore no need for market regulation, as the Progress Party and the private poultry producers see. Chicken can be delivered throughout the country, at Dombås, at Dokka, in Hammerfest and in Kirkenes, in line with all other goods, based on supply and demand. Unfortunately, the Progress Party is on its own in this Chamber when it is proposed to amend the 70-year-old law on turnover made under and adapted to completely different circumstances. All the other batches adhere to market regulation and refer to the concluded agricultural agreement as an argument for continuing on-track. In order to put an end to this argument as well, we have included in our proposal that market regulation be abolished at the end of the current contractual period. Our proposal goes right into the ongoing debate on food prices. When the large number will not go further, it is good that the Competition Authority will now review the value chain for food, including market regulation schemes that clearly impede competition and make Norwegian food products more expensive than they would otherwise have been. I would like to mention the proposal of the Advance Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e146	The representative of Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 802]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e165	Since 2001, air fares in Norway have fallen sharply. Although reference is now made to a modest rise, I will come back to an overwhelming evidence that competition in Norwegian aviation, several operators on the road, has given airline fares to a great deal of joy to Norwegian air passengers. It's gotten a lot cheaper to fly. We see that the number of frequencies and the number of paths increases as time goes by. We see that a very successful policy in this area implemented by the Swedish Cooperation Administration has optimised conditions for competition in Norwegian aviation. In this context, it is enough to mention the removal of the domestic award credits system, the abolition of the fare for seats and new state wholesale agreements. As a result of this work, there was room for a new, significant player in the Norwegian domestic market, who gives us consumers cheaper air travel and much more freedom of movement. I would say that cheap air travel is an important prerequisite for continued widespread settlement in the country. That's something we really want to keep. It's a system that's come to stay in Norwegian aviation, which we're going to develop in the future. But for a market to work, there must be more players. There must be more operators and, above all, there must be competition between them. When I take this matter up in Stortinget, it is because among other things. the undersigned has recently been served with a considerable number of recordings, allegations and rumors relating to the competitive situation in Norwegian aviation. It is claimed, inter alia, that: that the dominant operator in Norwegian aviation abuses its market power to squeeze out the other real competitor. It is said to be driven by deliberate underpour. Under-priced, if illegal, means that the dominant competitive operator sets down the air fares artificially low for a period of time to drive out competitors and then sets them up. Unlawful understatement is known as abuse of a dominant position in the market and contrary to the Competition Act § 11. I am also aware that matters relating to illegal under-priced in any market, within any segment, are very complicated to handle. But what is important, whether this claim is close to being correct, is that the management of these issues is addressed in a satisfactory and reassuring manner. We saw in the case where both Norwegian and SAS operated on the Ålesund route, while SAS Braathens had a single market on the Molde-Kristiansund route, that passengers from Ålesund and the surrounding area received up to three times as low prices as passengers on the other two Moors and the Romesdal routes. We saw that SAS Braathens adjusted the price sharply and was very close to the Norwegian price level. Unfortunately, we know the result. Norwegian chose along the way to lay down its Ålesund route to great, great inconvenience in the future for the passengers who live in this area. We've seen, and are likely to see, that similar conditions are developing within other market segments today, where the claims are now that the big player is adjusting down the price level, down to the Norwegian level, as far as destinations in and around North Norway are concerned. Here, the claim of strong under-price is promoted by one of the actors. I remember very well the time when it cost, whether you traveled from Bodø, Tromsø or Alta, everything from NOK 6000 to NOK 7 000 to travel the trip-return Oslo, that it was strongly defended by SAS’ side that it was not possible to operate at a lower price level. Today I see no problems, because some passengers can get a trip-return-travel from these destinations down to the 1000 kroner. It's a picture that we have to take care of and preserve. The last time we had a similar situation in Norwegian aviation, the smallest actor was eaten by the big one, with the result that there was no more competition. Then, of course, air fares went up. This claim is well documented in the Sunday edition of the Evening Post, where the table shows that prices are lower for SAS Braathens at the time of departure near Norwegian departures, on the given example of Tromsø-Oslo route. It is serious if prices are dumped where competition is involved, in order to be refinanced with higher prices on other routes or at other departure times, if this is part of a goal of getting rid of a serious competitor. It has also been claimed that the operators in this market make extensive use of a form of reward system through market support, which stimulates the dominant sellers in this segment, the travel agents, to introduce one company in front of the other through strong bonus schemes. This, of course, prevents the cheapest option being chosen in some cases, and ultimately we are consumers who become the losers. We have seen that through the measures that were initially mentioned by me, we have managed to achieve a strong price reduction in the Norwegian aviation market. During the period in which SAS Braathens operated alone, as an independent company, from October 1999 to October 2001, air fares in Norway increased by 40 p.p., while the general price growth in Norway, the consumer price index, was about 40 p.p. 5 pst. We have seen that after SAS bought up Braathens in October 2001, air fares reached their preliminary peak in March 2000. At that time, the air fare had risen by almost 50 pst. since Color Air had to be set. History shows that, through the cooperation government's policy, we have now been able to reduce air fares by about 40 p.m. in Norway. All these figures are taken from the statistics of the Central Statistical Office. Price developments in the aviation ticket market are far lower now compared to the general price developments in Norway. My goal to address this situation in Stortinget is explained. We don't have to come back to the situation that we had when Color Air introduced the years, when it wasn't possible to operate and we again got an immediate price development where the airline ticket prices domestically increased by 50 pst. We must not get into the situation that SAS Braathen’s market dominance, ownership, within, among other things. the operator’s service, via the airline Ontøe, also operates a systematic policy, as it is claimed, by streamlining its accommodation service to take more precisely the departures of SAS Braathens rather than those of the competitor, all the time we know that eight out of ten such passengers travelling on the short-haul network end up at one or other of the parent aerodromes in that country. Therefore, it is very important that the domestic air passenger market, which has an annual turnover of DKK 7–8 billion and which has given passengers a saving over the last year of NOK 2 billion, is now covered by nine-time monitoring by the Competition Authority, that these conditions are given priority by the Competition Authority and that the possibility of monitoring developments is given permanent follow-up. I am therefore very pleased to have registered the Minister of Competition's participation in this debate, whether the Council of State will promise to follow up this day by day and leave it to people who are on award credits, the use of domestic award credits, or the possibility of strengthening competition in this important national market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e197	Like the representative Ivar Kristiansen, the government is committed to maintaining competition in domestic aviation. Competition established domestically has led to lower prices and a better offer both for citizens and for business. Let me first say a few words about the competitive situation in domestic aviation as it is today, and briefly describe what the Competition Authority is doing to ensure the competition of both the representative of Kristiansen and the Government. The intervention by the Competition Authority against the award of award credits on SAS Braaten’s domestic routes in March 2002, together with the Government’s closure of the air passenger fee shortly thereafter, has been crucial for the re-establishment of competition in domestic aviation. The competition took serious action when the carrier Norwegian Air Shuttle started up in September 2002 and challenged the merged SAS Braathens, which at that time had a real monopoly. Calculations by the Competition Authority confirm that leisure and business travellers, residents and businesses save between DKK 1.5 and 2 billion on an annual basis as a result of the challenge to the monopoly and that competition was restored. Since the establishment of Norwegian, the Competition Authority has been particularly concerned with three aspects of SAS Braaten’s behaviour — all related to SAS Braaten’s dominant position in Norwegian domestic aviation. Firstly, the supervision has been concerned with the existence of unlawful under-priced products. Underprices are prices that companies artificially set low in order to drive out competitors, and then to be able to raise prices. The second is the impact on competition from business customer agreements, i.e.: agreements between the major airlines, or airlines and companies. The third is, as the representative Kristiansen also mentioned, the travel agency agreements, i.e. agreements between certain travel agents and airlines. In the cases of under-pricing, the supervision has ordered SAS Braathens to send accounts to the Competition Authority every month, so that supervision can assess whether prices might be illegally low. The Competition Authority has engaged experts to analyse the figures, and the supervision has ensured evidence at SAS Braathens. I am aware that the supervision is expected to draw conclusions on this matter in the near future. In December 2003, the Competition Authority took action against the SAS Group’s business customer agreements. The SAS Group was banned from providing its business customers with progressive discounts. Progressive discounts mean that discount rates increase with the purchase of air travel. Such discounts have a loyalty-creating effect and weaken competition in today’s market situation. Furthermore, the Competition Authority prohibited contractual clauses favouring the SAS group over other airlines. With regard to concrete new measures, the supervision has informed me that it is now assessing the wholesale discounts on the monopoly routes. We must avoid discounts on the monopoly routes being used to restrict competition on the routes where there are actually alternatives and where competition is established. In 2003, the Competition Authority also carried out a review of the SAS Group’s travel agency agreements. The supervision found that SAS Braathens’ agreements with travel agents were not contrary to the Competition Act and did not take any action against them. Stakeholders are well aware of what clauses are contrary to the Competition Act and avoid them. However, the supervision now assesses whether there are other conditions which are not reflected in the agreements and which are suitable for limiting competition. I am concerned about the distortion of competition that may arise in such a context, and will ask the Competition Authority to pay attention to the large volumes traded via the travel agencies, as this may favour larger companies and dominant market players. Intervention of SAS Braathens’ bonus programmes by the Competition Authority in 2002 related to the award score of domestic air routes. The Competition Authority has now informed me that they will also look at the effects of the bonus programmes on inter-Scandinavian routes, among others. to ensure effective competition on the routes between Oslo, Stockholm and Copenhagen. It is also worth noting that Norwegian competition authorities are drivers in international forums for cooperation between competition authorities in order to assess the international companies’ bonus schemes. The aim of this is, inter alia, to: to prevent international companies from restricting competition in national markets by means of bonus schemes. This shows that the supervision of competition in aviation is given considerable attention. The government will ensure that this attention continues. The main means of ensuring continued competition in domestic aviation are, first of all, strict enforcement of competition rules. Furthermore, it is important that the State as a major buyer of air services arranges its purchases to ensure continued competition. The rules on competition are an essential instrument to prevent restrictions on competition. The new and more stringent Competition Act of 1 May 2004 has made competition rules a more powerful tool for ensuring competition. In particular, abuse of a dominant position has been prohibited. Such a prohibition is particularly important to ensure competition in domestic aviation because SAS Braathens has such a dominant position. I would like to ask the Competition Authority to continue to have a special focus on aviation in Norway to prevent illegal restrictions of competition. I would like to underline this in the 2005 letter of award to the Competition Authority. The service requirements of State employees represent a significant proportion of the total number of trips in Norwegian aviation. Due to the increased domestic competition, I did not find it appropriate to maintain the central government air travel agreement that was concluded a few years ago. With today's strong price competition, a central government procurement agreement could over time lead to a weakening of competition in the air. Today, competition and diversity are best safeguarded by airlines competing to offer each State budget the cheapest possible air travel. However, decentralised procurement makes it important that each entity and individual employee are aware of the purchase of service claims, so that the competitive mechanism works. My department will therefore issue a guide to raise awareness among public employees when purchasing service claims. The procurement law shall be used, and I would also ask for the following principles to be followed when purchasing air travel from state agencies: Firstly, purchases shall take place in a manner which does not impede competition in the market. The State shall act in a way that promotes healthy competition and industrial development. All market players must therefore be given equal opportunities to become suppliers of goods and services to the country. Thirdly, they must act as a demanding customer. The State purchases flights for approx. 400 million. kr annually in order to maintain routes which are not economically viable. Purchases shall be based on competitive tendering. whereas it is important that the contract documents be drawn up in such a way as to enable smaller companies to compete for the tenders and thus create a viable basis for smaller companies; At the same time, this may help to preserve smaller players who can compete in profitable markets in domestic aviation. I will follow this up in cooperation with the Minister for Transport. The co-operation administration has contributed, through several measures, to the benefit of Norwegian consumers and Norwegian industry of the benefits of competition in domestic aviation. Both the ban on awarding credits to SAS Braathen domestically, the winding-up of the flight seat fee and a competitive procurement policy have been important premises for healthy competition. The Government considers it very important that competition be maintained and we will work expeditiously to facilitate continued competition in aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e258	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very convincing and very satisfactory response. The measures the Council of State refers to in its response, I feel a very satisfactory follow-up to a competitive situation, which in no way must end up as it was in the old days, when we had one door and one actor to turn to, whether it was up the airstep or in the ticket door. We saw, when Color Air saw the light of day, that the price evolution of air tickets followed the evolution of the consumer price index. We saw that when SAS Braathens became alone, the flight prices rose by 40 pst. in two years, while the actual price increase was 5 pst. We saw that until March 2002, three years after Color Air went in, the air fares had increased by over 50 pst, while the overall price increase was slightly above 10 pst. In retrospect, we have seen that from May 2002 to May 2004 the same fares have been reduced by 40 pst. I have rarely seen the mind of overwhelming evidence that competition in a market is functioning. It's this competition we have to do everything in our power to take care of. For all things in the world, we don't have to move a step back, to the way it was in the old days, where someone reindeered one actor and someone thought it was given to tax flights. This meant that travelling by plane was a high-cost factor, which was not considered a necessary tool to serve Norwegian business, to serve District Norway and to provide trade and business with increased opportunities. That is why I am very pleased that the Council of State gives the marshaller that he has actually given in today's response, both to his own department and, not least, to the Competition Authority. Because we don't have much time to lose, I feel, if any of the claims promoted about the competitive situation are in the vicinity of being right. I'm sure there are none of the country's air passengers, nor any of the actors in District Norway, who in some way dream back to the old days, as one really had to do a rough cut in the wallet to afford to travel by plane.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e269	In the Labour Party, we would also like to take part in this important debate. I'm one of those people who travel a lot, and I think I have a slightly more nuanced view of this issue than both the Council of State and the interpellant have. The working party went against lifting the flight fee in 2001, but, as someone may have noticed, we have not taken any action against it. In it lies the realization that trains are an option that often takes too long. It is not a luxury to travel by plane in Norway, and one does not require the kind of luxury fee that the fare was. When it comes to bonus points, we didn't get in, but we were probably a little bit more critical of that conversion. I'll come back to that. Ivar Kristiansen says that there is a strong under-pour – or perhaps there is a strong under-pour – in SAS. It's up to the Competition Authority to assess that. But at least it's so that both SAS Braathens and Norwegian don't make money for the time being, so that might indicate that there's underpriesting both here and there. In the rest of my post, I'm going to problematize a little bit further around this area or maybe give some words on the road. We have two main actors in Norway on the core network. It's the SAS group, and it's Norwegian. Competition is largely on the main lines, and companies lose money. Is this a good, viable competition? Traffic on less-traffic tribal routes is largely SAS Braathens, and partly Onions, which have. When there is more pressure on the economy of these companies, they may be offered when there are no major routes. Then there may be pressure to use more government money to subsidize these routes. Is it not the intention to transfer more expenditure to the state? Then you say it was very nice to get rid of bonus points in Norway. It increases competition on the main routes. But it weakens SAS internationally. Taking away the points in the North I'm going to assume that only happens if all the other Nordic countries and other Nordic companies are some of them, otherwise there would be a gift package, for example. to Finnair. When I'm going to travel from Stavanger to Rome, I'll choose to travel with KLM, because that's where I get points from going from home until I find out. I don't want to get that with SAS. So this loyalty thing is also about how we want to position our company in relation to how others deal with their larger companies. Then pressure on costs can lead to pressure on security-related relationships. It's happening at a time when there's a problem in Avinor in a conversion process and the Air Safety Authority is tired of getting people to Bodø. No passengers, I think, want it to be cheap, if it goes on security loose. It must be safe, and it must be resilient over time. It seems that neither interpellant nor state council is taking exactly those problems inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e289	Air traffic became something for ordinary people after World War II. Traffic growth has been sustained since then, supported by better economy among people, lower costs and more airports. Only in my county, Finnmark, today there are eleven daily departure airports. You could say that travelling by plane has become more common than travelling by bus, and has helped to reduce distance in Norway. Unfortunately, in the 1990s and early 2000s the aviation market was in severe imbalance. Monopolising, high taxation and less optimal operation of the infrastructure resulted in flight prices being completely out of control. The flight price index in Norway was ten times higher than the EU average in 1992, according to Eurostat. A full price ticket between Alta and Oslo cost more than NOK 6000 return in 2001. The most affordable ticket between Alta and the capital cost NOK 3000 return. Today, the price is NOK 4000 for a full price ticket and NOK 1000 for a low price ticket on the same route, with the same planes and with the same airlines. What's happened? While the Stoltenberg government was passive and looked at the market as being unbalanced, the Cooperation Government has taken action. As mentioned above, the air passenger charge has been removed, the anti-competitive bonus system has been removed, and the state favouring of one carrier belongs to the history. This has led to real competition, and new companies have now come into existence. In addition, the Swedish Aviation Agency has been transformed into a limited liability company, Avinor, and has implemented and undergone major efficiency processes. All of this is a desired policy from the Right, and the results have not been delayed. According to Eurostat, Norway has the largest reduction in the flight price index throughout Europe. From 10 times the EU average in 2000, Norway is eight times lower than the EU average in 2003. This isn't just numbers. Norway is experiencing traffic growth again. Private individuals can afford to move in Norway. Enterprises save considerable sums, ensuring value creation and jobs. This has been particularly important for businesses in the districts. I am very pleased with the Council's response to the interpellation of Ivar Kristiansen. Although development has been positive, it is important that we do not do as the government of Stoltenberg, namely sleeps. I'm glad that State Council Meyer is giving full attention to competition in aviation in Norway. On the basis of the contribution I heard from the representative of the Workers' Party here, I believe that the spirit and efforts of the Cooperation Government are important in the future to keep control of the flight prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e302	I am actually taking the word to stress that SV also agreed with the decision that was taken a year ago to remove the bonus programme scheme on domestic grid. We thought it was right because, in addition to the agreements with the travel agencies, the scheme was an effective barrier to competition and an effective barrier to the release of new companies. There might be reason to remember that there were a lot of people who disagreed. There were a lot of people who were running an active campaign to keep the bonus money scheme. Not least LO and NHO were active against. In retrospect, we see that that was right. Air fares have gone down, and we've got Norwegian. Especially for us from North Norway, where flight prices were very high, up to $7,000 to fly a round trip from one of the airports in North Norway, flight prices have fallen radically. It has benefited the people. The arguments against that time were, among other things, that it would weaken SAS in international competition, SAS against the other major international competitors, and it could be risked that SAS would succumb and be purchased. When I take the floor now, it is to ask the Council of State a question when one sees that the bonus programme may also be removed on international flights in Scandinavia. There is no competition between SAS and Norwegian domestic companies. That's where you compete with Lufthansa, KLM and British Airways. So how is the Council of State going to make sure that SAS, flying abroad, will in the future compete on equal terms with international airlines?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e313	There is no doubt that what has happened in aviation in recent years, in terms of air prices, is largely positive. Air fares have been significantly reduced, and it benefits both business and private. Nor is there any doubt that once a market-based system has been put in place, it is also necessary to ensure effective competition. The consequences of a monopoly situation within a market-based system are quite obvious. It will lead to prices that neither of us is earned. It is therefore necessary to have a strict control. But now it's definitely not that it's only the cooperation government's policy that causes a reduction in flight prices. The considerable self-satisfaction shown by the representatives of the Right in this context may be mitigated in part. It is clear that a rather sharp increase in traffic base, combined with the overall cost reduction that all businesses have experienced over recent years, also contributes to reduced costs in aviation. But when I take the floor, it's primarily to point out that there's another side to this that I think requires as much attention as cost reductions compared to flight prices. It's safe. If there is one area where safety has to be placed in the high-seat at all times, it is in aviation. An increasingly tough competition, focusing primarily on price, can in worst cases compromise security in a way that none of us want. The recent cost reductions have led to claims of maintenance slurries. It has not been demonstrated whether it is correct, but it is claimed that a reduction in periodic maintenance has been achieved, in order to reduce costs and increase the use of individual aeroplanes. The transformation of Avinor into a limited liability company and the cost reductions that are being carried out there have, at least in the short term, had the consequences that we can see in the media every day, consequences that none of us are particularly pleased with, but that will naturally result from as much efficiency as the Avinor is currently undergoing. This also means that it is not only the Competition Authority that has a job to do in relation to control of aviation activities. Even those who stand in the field of aviation security have a job to do: to make sure that we will not only have low prices in the future, but also the safest possible traffic in the air. The Council of State says that he will look at and pay attention to the fact that we will be able to keep the smaller players on the routes where the state buys services. I agree with that, of course, but it must also be a point for the Council of State to follow up on the fact that in the future we can also purchase a continuous ticket and have an offer of e.g. baggage management that is appropriate for those using this type of flight service.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e328	This government is revolutionising Norwegian transport, with one goal in mind: to provide all those who are dependent on transport, a first-class and up-to-date offer. Better reliability, more departures, higher comfort, shorter time use and reasonable prices of our means of communication – it affects us all in everyday life. If the government parties succeed in the conversion, it means shorter working days, better jobs and – above all – safer transport. In order to achieve these objectives, the Government has had to reorganise the often heavy organisations of transport. We separate the production departments from the administrative bodies, as we have done – or are about to do – with the Road Administration, the Railway Agency and the Coastal Works. Secondly, we cultivate forms of company that give companies greater freedom of administrative and financial action. The increased freedom will provide employees with a more inspiring day of work and challenge increased skills building. Therefore, we will organise these production companies Mesta, BaneService and the Coastal Works Production as stand-alone, state limited liability companies. We also take the same conversion measures for Post, NSB and Avinor. Through two actions, the creation of production companies and the use of the form of limited liability companies, this government has also facilitated competition. Competition is our best proof for private and public resource use. It is also important that management companies continuously review resource use and transport security procedures. Air passengers rely on an effective Avinor to obtain reasonable prices and safe transport. Avinor is responsible for 28 regional airports and 18 parent airports. The company has been charged large costs in connection with international decisions against terrorism and sabotage. In addition, the imposition of investment on and at the runway will entail several significant costs. Avinor deserves tribute for the company meeting the challenge through its ‘Take-off-05’ package of measures. Failure by Avinor to implement the efficiency measures will result in poorer or more expensive offers to air passengers. Should trade union leaders succeed in preventing the reverse operation, it will reverse public action and weaken aviation’s competitiveness. Fair and effective competition in the air can only be ensured through an active competition policy. I note that the Council of State will fight against award credits schemes both nationally and – not least importantly – internationally. Exploitation of dominant market power in the form of robberies, wholesale contracts, progressive rebates and accrual schemes contributes to predatory capitalism and weakened consumer power. Interpellant has shown convincingly that consumers have made a great deal of money in the conversion that has taken place in Avinor – in the air and in Norwegian transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e343	I thank you for the debate that has taken place on the issue of competition in Norwegian aviation. Just a few comments on the posts of the Labour Party and the Centre Party in particular: I record a apparent lack of joy over the results that have been achieved in this area – a reduction in the price of airline tickets of more than 40 pst. on average over a two-year period — and the lack of enthusiasm for trying to keep up with what has been achieved, so as to avoid falling back to the system that was not in place in the old days, then before the Cooperation Government joined. One shows again some kind of – I say – boundless concern for the airline SAS and the bonus passengers' future woe and well. I can't help but encourage Stortinget to have at least the same concern for Norwegian air passengers. Rather, SAS will be able to compete on the same terms and conditions as all other actors. Bonus passengers' woe and well get in second place in relation to our great desire to have air fares that enable people to travel most by plane in the whole country. I find it reassuring in many ways to hear the Workers' Party representative Starrfelt, who stated quite undefiledly that the Workers' Party did not intervene when it came to removing what she called a luxury fee – the fee, however, has a different name, but there was no bad name on it – and that they did not interfere with the use and earning of award credits domestically. I am pleased to hear the representative from SV, Geir-Ketil Hansen, who expressed pleasure at the fact that the competitive situation has helped to ensure lower air fares. On the other hand, it was in many ways predictable to record the attempts of the Centre Party’s Enoxens to participate in the award of lower fares, and then to use the rest of their contribution to criticise the measures taken to bring down the fares. I don't think it serves this debate to involve the notions of ‘security’ and Avinor. The fact that Avinor is able to operate cheaper, comes to the seventh and last Norwegian airline passengers. We have standards for aviation safety and standards for follow-up and control within this field. It is hardly worth the debate, in particular, that Norwegian should feel a bad conscience for it to be put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e359	Let me first point out that for the Government, security comes first. But it must be a misunderstanding that monopoly activities in the air ensure safety in the air. It is fully possible to achieve a well-functioning market where safety has the highest focus. I also want to comment on Odd Roger Enoksen's articles. Of course, it is true that there has been a traffic growth, which has further stimulated competition. However, there is a clear link between the traffic growth that has taken place in the air and the price reductions achieved through competition. It is obvious that when prices fall by 40 pst, it becomes a form of transport activity that becomes open to more. Then I want to say that there's going to be some strain on the left-hand side's attempts to join an active competition policy. I think maybe the Socialist Left Party, the Workers' Party and the Centre could draw the experiences of the transition from a monopoly to a real competition and use them in other areas of society, which could give the same positive effects on citizens and businesses as we have experienced in a competition in the air, which has come as a result of a deliberate policy and willingness not always to implement popular measures, for just over the long term to get the results we have achieved. I think the Labour Party representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt also confirms how important it is to have looked at the bonus schemes that still exist. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Competition Authority also looks at the bonus schemes on inter-Scandian routes, and that they will provide advice if they believe that we can achieve greater competition by removing the bonus points. However, the representative Starrfelt just confirmed that these types of bonus schemes can promote loyalty, that they can act as a barrier to competition and therefore require a sharp look from the authorities. So, finally, to Geir-Ketil Hansen: Of course, we are going to be critically involved in the advice that the Competition Authority had to give us in relation to bonus schemes on inter-Scandian routes. But I am also concerned that a SAS Braathens that competes domestically is also the company that is best able to handle competition internationally. We do SAS Braaten's a bear service if we believe that re-establishing SAS Braaten's monopoly situation in Norway will improve the company's ability to compete internationally. It is precisely by mastering competition in the local markets that we are helping to make SAS Braathens able to compete internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e372	Then the interpellation debate, case no. 2, finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e385	The vote will take place at the next voting time. 1582 entry 21 — in the case of the Fornebu area — correctly. There has been an increase of 2.1 million. kr. The corresponding reduction would be applied to entry 30. However, item 30 was not included in the proposal for a decision by an incurrency, nor was it included in the decision. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The 2004 State budget shall be amended as follows:Chapter. 1582 Development of the Fornebu areaPost 30 Investments in Fornebu, may be carried over, reduced by NOK 2 100 000, from NOK 108 809 000 to NOK 106 709 000.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e404	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 802]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e421	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 804]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e436	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 804]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e451	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 804]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e466	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e473	It is no longer so easy to define what is normal family relationships. Norwegian households are very complex. The proportion of households of one person has increased, and around 740,000 people can be considered as single residents in Norway today, i.e. a very large and important but very complex group of people. This is what the rapporteurs have done in their proposal on the living conditions of single residents and single dependants. The fact that so many live alone is evidence that our society offers opportunities and spaces for women and men who want to establish themselves alone to have a chance of doing so. But it is not difficult to see that in a number of areas our society operates on the assumption that we are still living under conditions that can be described as the classic core family, which thus share at many of the common costs of financing the welfare state. It is easy to mention municipal or state taxes, such as TV licenses and taxes linked to the purchase and sale of housing. Then there are insurance, electricity, telephone, etc. In total, the financial burden on single-dwelling households is compared to multi-dwelling households. There is no doubt that these are challenges that force us politicians to think differently in the distribution policy. In particular, it may be in the housing market that solitude meets the major challenges. Bout poisons vary considerably according to age, marital status and region, but boutetoxes are greatest for young people and lonely in central press areas. With this in mind, the Committee stresses the importance of explaining the situation and living conditions of single residents. We must take account of this large, complex group in policy-making in many areas. The Committee would point out that there are only caregivers who most often have specific issues and who may need special measures. These developments must be followed closely, as requested by the Committee. The Committee is concerned that single residents are a very complex group and that many are very resource-intensive people who do not meet specific everyday challenges. In the Committee, we are aware that the Government is working on an investigation into the living conditions of single residents, and we have taken the view that the Stortinget is appropriately made aware of what measures are important in order to influence the attitudes of society towards unanimity, and whether concrete demands should be made for a review of policies in individual areas. The Committee stresses that it is economically possible to live in a single-income household. The Committee therefore calls in particular for consumption-based consideration to be given to conditions such as municipal taxes and the flexibility of the Husbanken in the housing support system. The Committee is somewhat divided in its view as to whether a wholesale message should be written. The majority want to await the government’s investigation before deciding on it, while the minority believes that a notification should be submitted. The Committee is concerned that the notified call for pensions is important for most people and that it will also mention the group of single and single residents. I'll show you the other way around.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e503	There is no disagreement in the social committee that it is important to highlight both the living conditions of single and single dependants. Nor is there any disagreement that there may be cases where specific measures need to be targeted at some within this highly complex group. Therefore, the Government will also launch an investigation to identify the same living conditions and living conditions. When we know that such an investigation is coming, it's natural to see what it contains, before considering asking for a big message. Although such an investigation is necessary in order to get an overall overview of the situation of single residents, it is important to stress that it is possible to do something while waiting for the government investigation, and some action has also been taken. The transition rate has become more flexible by being able to publish the school year, with the result that more people can complete the school year and education with transitional benefits. Furthermore, the period of benefit during the necessary training for lone dependants has been extended. These are examples of targeted measures that will facilitate access to work and help prevent poverty and social exclusion, both for the single parent and for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e512	The living conditions of single residents and single dependants are those set out on the agenda in this Document No. The 8-proposal by the representatives of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, Åsa Elvik and Heikki Holmås. I think we're going to take inwards that this kind of thing -- whether it's single or single-parent -- is not a uniform group. Some people choose this form of life themselves – many older people become lonely or have chosen to be it throughout their lives. We have the group of lone dependants, who have been developed in a number of contexts, and we also have a number of other issues that emerge in this Document No. The 8th proposal. I would like to add a few comments to at least a few statements. It is shown in Document No. The 8 proposal to focus in particular on the single situation in relation to labour market policy. I'm not sure, but it's going to be exciting to see what the result is. Let's take an example: if we have a family – a one-off family – where the person who has the income becomes unemployed, will it come in second order? What are we going to do in this area? I also feel that this proposal, which comes from the representatives of the SV, in many ways stigmatises an entire group. It's quite obvious that a number of people who are referred to here as single-dwellers and single-dwellers actually have it very well. We should not generalise and say that everyone has a problem, and that therefore one should have a separate big message about this. The Progress Party supports what the Advocate-General had to say here, that the Government has actually launched an investigation with the Statistical Central Bureau, so that a broad reference group can be set up and actually obtain a decision-making basis if one chooses to take action. I think it's important that we don't already say that this is a group we're going to have even more action against. Let's first see what it's all about and then evaluate it. The Progress Party also supports the proposal that this should be annexed to the Protocol, and then we will see what the work that the Government has undertaken will bring about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e525	People living in one-person households are an ever-growing group in our country, approx. 3/4 million people we're counting on today to belong to this group. In a modern household, there are some basic costs that are at least a long way on the way, the same, whether the household consists of one or more persons. There may be costs of renting, electricity and heating, telephone, various municipal charges, car rental – there are probably also several other examples. When these expenditures are to be covered by one income — as opposed to households with two incomes — it goes without saying that this represents a not insignificant economic added burden for single residents. These additional costs may be one of several reasons why single residents, especially young people living alone, are overrepresented among the permanently poor. If there is a desire to take measures for single-dwelling and single-parents, it must be essential to both gain a better understanding of the situation and a thorough assessment of how different policy measures will affect those who live alone or are single-parents. It will then be necessary to look at tax policies, housing policies, various public welfare schemes, study funding and pension schemes, to mention some key areas. I could imagine drawing an example that shows how complicated and complex this is. An aggregate increase wants to balance the difference in pensions between single and married and cohabiting pensioners. This could reinforce the difference in living conditions between one-person households and households with two incomes in the case of pensioners, only to show how complicated this can be. It is obvious that single residents are not a uniform group, which I fully agree with the representative of Nesvik. Of course, many who live alone have good social and economic living conditions. However, this cannot prevent us from getting a thorough and broad review to identify the specific challenges some single residents face, and what targeted measures can most effectively meet them. I am also aware that the government intends to launch an investigation to get as much knowledge as possible about the living conditions and the situation of the same person, in cooperation with, among others. Statistical Central Bureau. In this work, too, as I understand it, various measures will be assessed and, where appropriate, proposed. This is said to be positive, and I hope that the work can be a useful political tool – both for the Government and for the Stortinget. I record that the Government is assessing whether the work to be done should be done in a separate Storing Message. I and SV believe that this case is so important that it requires great breadth and thoroughness in what is to be presented to Stortinget. Therefore, SV clearly believes that there is already a basis for saying that it should be a separate wholesale message. We are not going to make any concrete proposals on this today. Since the majority of the committee will leave the final decision on this to the Government, we naturally do not want such a proposal to be voted down here in the Chamber. However, I would recommend to the Council of State that the Stortinget be presented with a separate communication on this major and important issue, which concerns more and more people in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e540	This is a problem which the League of Nations, not least, is putting on the agenda in every election campaign, without the Stortinget finding a satisfactory solution so far. The rapporteur has reviewed Document No. The 8-suggestion from SV in a neat and straightforward way. She has clarified that single residents are not a uniform group. Many lonely people are resource-intensive people who do not meet specific challenges in everyday life. This is the Christian People's Party's agreement. Nevertheless, we do not get away from the fact that the single resident has to pay exactly the same fixed fee on the telephone, electricity, water, sewerage and TV license as those who share the costs with others. In addition to the fact that all singles across the country have higher fixed costs than those living in households with more income, they have an extra cost that is passed on to all the others together, namely the cost of housing. Most of them live alone in Oslo. In the capital, housing prices are also highest. This hits single residents extra hard. As newly elected other vice president of the Christian People's Party Knut Arild Hareide, who himself is single, went out quickly and demanded a single message of his own, and that one focused more on the situation of single residents. He pointed out that single residents are a large and growing group in our country. Today there are approx. 750,000 single residents. The prognosis points upwards, while the same group lags behind several statistics measuring living standards and living conditions. Hareide wants more knowledge of why some groups alone are struggling not only with lower income and lower living standards than those living in couples. Many suggest that this group also has poorer health. I am pleased that the Minister for Child and Family Affairs has started an investigation into the living conditions of single residents. It is important that we have good evidence of the single life situation, so that we can have a better basis for identifying any group of lonely people who have specific problems and needs, and then for assessing concrete actions. It is important, as the Council of State itself stresses, that this should be done in cooperation with the Statistical Central Agency and with a broad reference group which could provide input on possible actions. On the NRK’s website, poverty researchers Ivar Breivik claims that the reason why living on only one income is becoming increasingly difficult is that the two-income families, with their liberal economy, are pushing up the prices of society to a level that they cannot cope with. We know quite a lot about who is affected by poverty, and which groups are overrepresented among them. Children of solitary dependants are one of these groups. The same is true of children in households where the main caretaker has a migrant background. The Christian People's Party supports measures that can reduce the problems of single dependants. Many suggest that a person is getting better and better at getting this group to work and thus improving the income of these people. Special attention should be paid to the situation of single parents who have disabled children. It can sometimes be very difficult for them to be in a paid employment situation. The Christian People's Party wants them to get such good help and support that they get excess to play and get together with the children and also time to live a social life. In order to demonstrate the complexity of this proposal, Document No. 8:88, I would point out that not all families have two incomes. This usually applies to families with young children. Child social security and tax deductions do not compensate for an entire labour income. I look forward to the investigation, where the main problem is how to deal with one income in today's society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e566	It's been stressed by several people here that the single residents are a heterogeneous group. A lot of people are doing well, but a lot of people are having a hard time too. We know that there are many of the young people living alone who are among the permanently poor, and that single residents have additional expenditure in a number of areas compared to a household with two incomes. Nearly 750,000 people live alone. In addition, we have many single-parent families with children, and they also have to live on one income. We know that the government is now working on an investigation into the living conditions of single residents. The Committee as a whole assumes that this work should be carried out in some way, but the Centre Party and SV believe that we should already provide guidance to present this investigation as a separate communication to the Stortinget. It is important to have a review that emphasises that it is economically possible to live in a one-income household, and that is why we ask that it be focused on, among other things. tax policy, housing policy, public welfare schemes, pension policies and student and grant schemes, so that we can achieve cohesion here and thus better manage a single-income household and live alone. They said so much about this that I don't think there's any reason to repeat so much more. But the many determined costs are often expenditures that the public can handle and do something about. Not least in this context, it is important that we remind each other that one in different public administrations must take greater account of single-dwelling and one-income households than one has yet done. And as I said, the Central Party would wish it had been clear in the cards that the investigative work that the Government is now doing, together with the Statistical Central Bureau and a broad reference group, would turn out to be a big message. But as the representative Molvik of SV was also involved, we do not want to make a proposal on this today that will be voted down, but we assume that we will get this back as a separate message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e577	Just a few brief comments from my side: it is positive that the Committee places this topic on the agenda. We know that single and single residents are a large and growing group in our society. We believe that there is reason to take a closer look at their living conditions. Based on the knowledge we have, there are some alarming features. Some single groups have lower income, lower living standards, higher living costs and, in fact, lower health than those living in couples. However, we do not know enough, and there is therefore a need for more knowledge to find out what the political challenges are. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs has launched an investigation into the living conditions of single residents, and the aim is to provide a better basis for identifying groups of lone people with specific problems and needs, and then to assess measures. As many people have said, we would like to ask the Central Statistical Agency to carry out a survey. In parallel with the monitoring, a reference group will be set up with representatives of organisations such as the United Nations, students, homeless, immigrants, disabled persons and pensioners’ associations, which can also point to problem areas and provide input into possible action. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs has also recently opened a website inviting us to explore the life situation and living conditions of single people, and these recordings will be used in the investigation. It appears from the opinion that the Committee awaits the work of the Government on an investigation and, where appropriate, a notification of the same living conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e586	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e597	We are going to vote on the matters that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e604	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to repeal, with effect from 1 July 2006, the market regulation of eggs and poultry, on the basis of the laws to promote the turnover of agricultural products.’ The representative Hedstrøm pointed out that the year 2006 should be corrected until 2005. This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e628	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e635	During the debate, Mr Sjøli presented a proposal on behalf of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber and reads as follows: ‘The 2004 State budget shall be amended as follows:Chapter. 1582 Development of the Fornebu areaPost 30 Investments in Fornebu, may be carried over, reduced by NOK 2 100 000, from NOK 108 809 000 to NOK 106 709 000.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e1072	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen, representative of the Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of 23 November 2004 of Odelstinget: ‘The Government is asked to consider raising the tender threshold to the maximum permitted by the EEA Agreement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e1087	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e1094	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e1101	Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06.ana.ud2290e1211	There is no record.
