ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e33	The representative Signe Eye, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. From 29 March to 2 April in order to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Mexico, an application has been made from the representative of André Kvakkestad. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Harald Espelund, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e53	The representative of Torbjørn Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e56	I will, on behalf of Jan Tore Sanner, Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, May Britt Vihovde, Bjørg Tørresdal and myself, present proposals for amendments to the Storting Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e61	The representative Steinar Bastisen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e64	I would like to make a proposal that elected representatives cannot speak on behalf of a party when they are no longer members of the party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e69	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e72	On behalf of Per Sandberg and myself, I would like to propose structural changes to increase economic growth and reduce unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e77	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e94	Recently, we have had a very interesting debate about family life and the situation of families. Sissel Gran wrote the Evening Post column entitled “Young, Weared and Fooled” in January of this year. As a result of this, the conversation about home stress and time shortages has taken place in all the media. There have been conversations when people have met, and certainly conversations in some Norwegian homes. The debate has focused on social development and how it has affected the family. Many people find it difficult to combine family life, professional life and other interests. The so-called time clip and the description of it are a lot of people who have known each other. We have heard many views, but one thing has all been agreed on: the problem is a lack of time. Sailors and sailors have come up with their everyday problems. We politicians must take this seriously, raise our eyes a little and see what are our framework conditions for this group. It is also important that this is not a setback for equality. This is about women and men's ability to organize their own lives. Family policy is fundamental to the Christian People's Party. I believe that family policy should be debated simply because it is a topic that concerns us all. It's about how we feel as people in everyday life, and how society can set things right. A lot of people fight at the clock. Parents pull the kids out of bed in the morning to deliver them to kindergarten, they run on to get job meetings and stress back home to drive kids on the woodpecker and football training. Good time isn't just about enough time, but knowing that we're mastering life, and that the community around us is set up so that we can hang out. Time doesn't go too far. The debate that has taken place in recent years on the timing of events has already given some interesting answers, but also some challenges. Many struggle to combine being a mother and a father with participation in the world of work. Today's labour market can be demanding. The Christian People's Party wants employers who give their employees their flexibility, a working life that makes it possible to combine working life and family life. Increased flexibility in working life is required. It must be done in such a way that it facilitates the everyday life of families with children. Increased flexibility may also result in increased pressures in relation to performance and work tasks. Home Offices can make the distinction between work and leisure fluid. Requirements for accessibility, including non-regular working hours, affect family life and can make parents’ presence in the family small, even if you are physically at home and with the children. There is still a need to change attitudes in the labour market in 2004. There is a need for increased acceptance for workers in stages of life as they have young children, for example: works less overtime than other employees. In all age groups, men work more overtime than women, and the worst is the difference among young children’s parents. Employee organisations and trustees are responsible for creating acceptance and understanding both in management and among colleagues for a life-stage human resources policy. It is also important that those who do not want to be part of this spiral be able to make other choices, such as: making use of the cash support. It is still the case that small children’s parents work the most overtime. Perhaps many men face attitudes at work that prevent them from taking more responsibility at home. They can take part in the paper commission and e.g. be home with a sick child. Employers have to be asked about the signals they give to their employees. If fathers are put in a hidden pressure from the employer to choose between careers, ambitions and equality, then there are many men who give up the whole equality. In this area, cooperation between politicians, employers and employment organisations would be fruitful in order to bring about a change in attitudes in the labour market and policy solutions that help fathers to do more at home when the children need them the most. I would like to give the Council of State a concrete challenge here: Can the Council of State imagine taking the initiative for a dialogue with the labour market and inviting it to a type of round table between working life and young children's parents? The timing debate is about equality and family policy. Equality requires that women and men have equal rights and opportunities to participate in and influence social development. The choices of care and work must be seen in the context of wages, working hours, competitive attitudes and attitudes in the labour market. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the practical participation of both sexes. In addition to the requirements of working life, we know that many people have obligations at home. This situation challenges us and requires measures other than financial transfers, social security schemes and kindergartens. These are values and conditions for living together. Relations between people, proximity and community must be given greater attention. An interesting feature of this debate is that it goes across ideological dividing lines. The old trenches are abandoned. We've got dialogue where it used to be sharp fronts. This provides new transparency and opportunities for good policy solutions. But it is important to remember that the timing debate is also about parents’ own priorities. We should not exempt parents from the responsibility for their own choice of values. In the evening post on 12 March, commentator Arnhild Skre writes: ‘Time clip’ is not primarily about time. We are more impressed by consumption, expectations and notions of shame and honor." It's about the demands you deliberately and unconsciously make on yourself and others. We're talking about value choices for the individual. Perhaps the desire for more material goods, great holidays and impressive career paths is too great and too dominant for some adults. The expectation of success in society is great, so we're all under a lot of pressure. But that's exactly why it's important that some of us ask ourselves, what do I want with my life? What's important to me? If we're honest, most of us will answer: what's important to me is association and contact with my closest friends. Such an answer has consequences in practical life. The time-stricken challenge is a challenge for society. We have to organize to make it easier for families to get their everyday lives together. But stress, little time for each other and the pressure of expectation must ultimately be handled within the individual family. That being said, this is not just about solutions at individual level. Modern family policies shall facilitate freedom of choice and flexibility in care and working life. I think the time frame for many is a great threat to family life. I would like to remind you that a good family policy is also an instrument for social development characterised by excessive individualisation and self-employment. A family-enhancing policy will improve the living and prevention of large-scale society in relation to social problems and exclusion. So back to the starting point, the debate in the Evening Post on the time clip. Through it, we've got a lot of interesting, valuable input that we have to include in our further work. A consistent feature is that time turns out to be the most significant challenge for most families with children; it's not just economics. Time with the children and time together as a family is important to people, especially there is a need for more time together for father and child. When the cash support and kindergarten reform are secured, I believe that the next major field of family policy is an improved and extended paper issue. Research shows the importance of close ties with father early in life. This is also very positive for the ratio. You get a greater understanding of each other's everyday life and each other's reality. One of the new measures that I have launched today, and which I think we should start, is to give more justice to emerging mothers. Today, many women have to wait for their second or third child to resume their full rights to pay on leave. The Christian People's Party wants to introduce a sibling's bonus, so that you don't lose rights because you have more children in a few years. This will be a system similar to what you have in Sweden. Many have the dream of having a good life. It impresses me when three out of four teenagers say they want to get married when they see 15 years ahead, and eight out of ten think that a lifelong marriage is the best. At the same time, we know that this dream is shattered by too many. I think that as a society we need to facilitate the organization of family life in such a way that this too works. In the debate, many people say that they struggle to combine being a mother and a father with participation in the world of work. Here I think some of the essence of this debate is. My challenge is, both to the Storing and to the Council of State: how can we manage to create a society that takes life's phase seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e144	Like the representative Dagrun Eriksen, I have noticed the debate in the media on the time clamp. There is cause for concern if young children’s parents experience a strong time pressure in their everyday lives. The time clip denotes the gliding between work and family. Very many young children’s parents provide at the same time in two arenas, both at home and in the workplace. I believe the key to finding a good balance between work and family is equality and freedom of choice. The government wants men and women to have equal opportunity to combine care at home with work. At the same time, we underline the importance of freedom of choice. Good family policies must be based on respect for the fact that each family itself is closest to deciding how their everyday lives should be structured. The government has followed this up through a bet on kindergartens and an increase in cash support and by proposing measures to bring fathers even more into the care of their own children. The debate has raised questions as to whether there is a time gap. It has been pointed out that the experience of parents with time pressure is not due to several hours of work. A new study by the Statistical Centre shows that there has been a decrease in the actual working hours of young children’s parents. This applies to both mothers and fathers. Therefore, longer working days cannot be the whole cause of the time problems of families with children. The researcher Anne Lise Ellingsetter believes that the reason for this could be to find a more greedy working life, where the demands for effort and efficiency are high. At the same time, parents face increased demands to facilitate the development of children. Today, large parts of children’s leisure time are linked to organised activities. It requires parents to drive their children to and from activities, usually several times a week. In addition, modern toddlers are active; they want to combine work, children and partners and their own leisure time. Perhaps the time pressure of young children’s parents is also about an expectation dilemma? We live in a society that focuses on success, and it's easy to bless under the requirements. The early childhood period is a demanding period, and many parents experience the need to adjust previous priorities and requirements. The transition from being two to becoming three can be too many pairs. The government promoted in the family announcement suggestions for free life course for all when they have their first child. A life course contains key elements on how to strengthen the positive in the couple relationship, such as commitment, vi-thinking, long-term and friendship. Such values often get more content and meaning when you have a child together. A life course will provide a good starting point for new parents to take joint responsibility for their new life situation. And you also want to spend less time if you can communicate better when it comes to conflicts, which can actually take a lot of time and energy from your families. The Ministry is now working on how to follow up these life courses. However, it is important that we do not reduce the time pressure of families with young children to only a matter of priorities within each family. The government wants to give each family room for action. Our task is to optimise the situation so that parents can choose from their specific situation and priorities. The kindergarten is e.g. important in order to enable parents to combine professional participation with good and stable childcare. The government is working to reach full child-care coverage, and from 1 May this year, step 1 of the maximum price is introduced. Parents who want more time for their children during the early childhood period shall be given a financial opportunity to do so. Cash support is therefore an important contribution to making it possible for more people to choose to work less and to be more at home with their children. The government will also further strengthen the freedom of choice of young children’s parents, and in the family communication we proposed a further increase in cash support. Cash support was also increased from 1 August 2003. In a demanding infant phase, it is important that both parents take their share of responsibility. Today, fathers take a more active part in caring for their own children, but it is still mainly the mothers who make adjustments between care and work. Few fathers take leave beyond the father's quota, and few fathers work part-time. A greater degree of equality in the home arena is about more relationships. Of course, it's about mom having to let go of dad – and do we? It's about dad being conscious of his responsibilities, and it's about working life having to accept that men are also caregivers. The Norwegian labour market is divided, both horizontally and vertically. Men and women work in different sectors, and in leadership positions we find mainly men. Many fathers meet with little understanding from the employer when they want to give priority to family. The experience with the father ratio shows that an earmarked period of time to father has had a very positive effect both in relation to the distribution between mother and father and in relation to working life. The Government therefore considers it necessary to further strengthen the right of fathers to maternity benefits. In the family message, we therefore proposed the following: Fathers should be granted the right to compensation of their earnings based on their own earnings under the spring quota. All fathers should be granted the right to four weeks' paper commission based on their own earnings. The paper commission, the spring quota, is expanding. It is absolutely essential that we, as responsible politicians, take the timing seriously. For a while, the Pensions Commission returned its decision. The Norwegian population is an ageing population. This is due to falling birth rates and higher life expectancy. As a consequence of this development, the cost of pensions will increase dramatically. Of course, in order to meet our future pension obligations, it is important that as many as possible can participate in the labour market. Norwegian society needs labour today and tomorrow. Today, Norway is at the European top in terms of both the proportion of working mothers and fertility. It is important that we also in the years to come be able to facilitate this unique combination. Our future well-being is inextricably linked to the efforts of young children’s parents. A society that does not take the situation of young children seriously jeopardises its future well-being. Then I will answer the representative Dagrun Eriksen's question about a round table conference can be a good proposal. I see such a conference very positive. I think this is a good initiative and a good proposal. This may include, inter alia: be a good opportunity to challenge the employer side of their attitudes towards male workers and men as carers. Research on the ratio of fathers has shown that it acts as a necessary barrier to working life. Good welfare arrangements around families with children are important, but cannot solve time problems alone. It is absolutely necessary that employers also get on the job, especially in relation to fathers. It is also necessary to focus on family priorities and adaptations. Such a conference may bring together the social partners, both from the employer’s side and from the employee’s side — parents’ organisations, for example: Norway's Women's and Family Association, AFFO, F2F, etc. and researchers in family and working life. The social scientists Anne Lise Ellingsätter and Arnlaug Leira may be current names. They have edited the antology ‘The welfare state and the family: challenges and dilemmas’, which actually comes out next week. This, I think, is an exciting proposal. In fact, I am very happy about this round table conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e175	I thank you for your answer. I think we can agree that in this debate, we often manage to be part of and describe the challenges and we manage to be with and describe the problems and focus on a lot of things. So there's some answers in it all, but it's not always that many of us get. I think it's incredibly important to listen to the experiences of young children's parents. I thank the Council of State for wanting that listener role in dealing with the seriousness of the challenges young children's families feel in such a time lag, which I think we agree can also be presented as an expectation glitch. For one thing, you have to deliver children, you have to be at work, and you have to get results, but you also have to look pretty calm and successful as a woman today, with long, well-kept nails as well. Both the clamp of expectation and the behaviour of a society that requires perfection of us can be quite challenging. I think it's interesting to use the life courses also as a tool to get people to talk about communication, and how it challenges you in family life. I think that's a very good idea. I think it's important that we get a babysitting that's flexible. I think it is important that we work with framework conditions such as cash support and time accounting schemes, that we work in relation to equality, and that we have equal respect for both choices in the whole. As far as working life is concerned, I think that an important part of this is, as the Council of State also said, that you have to accept that father is also a caregiver. I think it is very good that some companies have now employed e.g. a nurse to go home to sick children. But I want to warn you a little bit too, because I think that the need that some young children's parents have is accepted to be at home with their sick children, more than that it's going to come to a professional employee and take over the piece that they themselves want. It is difficult to complete a working day with important projects if you know that the pod is home with high fever. I am delighted with the debate we are going to have here today. I'm happy to hear a lot about more challenges. We in the Christian People's Party have initiated a great listening action through our websites, where we want to listen to this particular group to find out where the shoe prints and where the biggest problems are. I don't think we're going to solve this issue today. I think we'll solve it by thinking a little bit long-term and looking at good, flexible arrangements for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e194	This listening to the experiences of the young children's parents, I think, is also incredibly important. That's after all the people who know where the shoe prints, and it probably prints in different places in the different families, depending on where they are in life. Two more words about life courses and positive communication: in fact, I think it can be a good tool. Anyone who has been married knows what it means not to communicate well enough, to disagree about child rearing, maybe not to have the tools you need – we actually give families with children on a life course. I think that I can help you make good use of the time you spend in the families of your children at home. If there's something left in the experience of parents who have been on a life course, it's exactly the tools they get in relation to communication. It says a lot of people I've talked to, and it also shows the evaluations. Otherwise, it might be exciting if we could also have a debate here today on the role of women in relation to home work. My experience is that we women can largely happen not so easily let go of the man. We want the home as our domain. We kind of have an experience from there, we have a tradition from there. We want control. It is quite interesting when a statistics from the Central Statistical Office show that married Norwegian women on average wash clothes for 15 minutes each day, that their men wash for 2 minutes, and that the man washed more clothes before he got married. So he can wash, but ended when he got married. He won't or won't be allowed? It could be exciting to have a debate on the role of women as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e205	We get to let that question hang in the air.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e208	In the evening post today, the Christian People's Party goes out and will change the retirement period for the right to leave. This is what the Women of the Workers' Party have called for a long time ago, so welcome after! It surprises me that the Christian People's Party, which has now been with government for so long, has not concretely expressed its good wishes and dreams that mother and father will love their children and each other. They haven't been concrete. And the interpellant is so worried that women and men are working overtime. Honestly, it sounds hollow! If the representative Eriksen is really so concerned that men and women have to work overtime, I would remind the representative that the Christian People's Party is in a government that has fought for workers to and must work more overtime. The best thing the government can do to prevent children from having worn-out parents is to facilitate a working life that does not rob workers but takes care of employees’ rights – the workers who are actually grandchildren and mothers of young children. If the interpellant's answer to the time bracket is a conference, yes, aye! So we're taking time in Stortinget to plan a conference. I think the interpellant could have easily taken a phone call to the Council of State, even if this would not have given the interpellant the same mark. The Christian People's Party is good at talking in the media about everything that should be done. But why do we not see any of this in the budget proposals presented by the Christian People's Party every year? The only concrete Christian People's Party has performed is to extend the cash support. Parents who received cash support for their child lost the early childhood allowance and received full compensation by a corresponding increase in cash support. On the other hand, this did not happen to young children’s parents who use kindergarten for their child, who thus lost 657 kroner per child. months. The government even partly financed reduced parental payments by removing the early childhood supplement. The working party was strongly opposed to this change with the removal of the infant supplement, when we now have so much knowledge of the importance of such universal cash transfers for families with children, and especially for families with very low incomes. The well-being of children is linked to the overall economic situation of the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e221	As the interpellant has been involved, the time-stricken debate is about equality and family policy. I think it is important to stress that when the Storting today is debating how to solve the problem of time clamping, it is important that we do not go into how families are going to solve this. That's what the families themselves are going to do. For the Right, this is about trusting that parents are able to make the right decisions for their own family. Our task as politicians here must be to make the best possible arrangements for the family. We do this best by giving each family the opportunity to choose between different solutions that are best suited to the needs and needs of the family. The family is a central value – as the basic unit of society. Its main task is to provide children with a safe upbringing. Children are totally dependent on the introduction of norms and values from the family community, where expectations of society are formed, and here is the first foundation for the individual's own value foundation. The family is also important to us adults, as a framework for proximity, love and care. It is important that women and men are given the opportunity to participate equally in work and family life. Modern family policies must address the consequences of gender equality. Several want to take an active part in working life in larger parts of their lives. Right will not pursue a policy where all families and children are to be integrated into an A4 pattern. That's why it's very interesting to see how some companies are good at thinking about this area in relation to their employees. They offer e.g. home office, reduced job homes, reduced-price home care, overtime childcare, playrooms in the workplace. These are just a few examples of measures that can help promote a flexible and family-friendly working life. It is also important that fathers have rights that strengthen their role in child care. The right does not believe in the introduction of equality by taking off the important mother's leave to give it to father. Therefore, the right-hand side supports the Government’s proposal for increased papacy with its own father benefit base. Right-wing wants a family policy where freedom of choice is central. Therefore, we want to build more and cheaper kindergartens, so it is important to keep the cash support. The key to success in family policy is freedom of choice for each family of children, with good, simple and predictable framework conditions. It is also the best family policy for families with children at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e238	When Christian People's Party Vice-Chair asks the Christian People's Party's family council what she will do in family policy, it is of course possible that it might be interesting, but it can also be relatively predictable. In such an interpellant debate that we have today, we have three possibilities. You can sign up for the complaint, you can dream about money for six hours and extended maternity leave, which we can't afford, or you can start asking some critical questions about the so-called time frame. The NHO president took the leaf from his mouth a few days ago and said there was too much sewing in the Norwegian working life. From my point of view, it may also be that there is a little too much sewing in some Norwegian families with children. I probably provoke many with such a stand, but making children is still a voluntary matter, and it actually has consequences. If you put children into the world, and also want both mother and father to be in full employment and have full career development and many leisure interests, it will naturally be stressful and tiring. It's a choice you make yourself, and you have to take responsibility for that. It's actually so that you can't get in both bag and bag all the time. Per. Today we have very good schemes that subsidise families of children: child welfare, maternity leave, cash support, for which the Progress Party has proposed concrete expansion of – as opposed to the Christian People's Party – and, not least, transfers to kindergartens, which will be strongly lifted. I am not saying that I want the woman back to the kitchen bench. But the fact that one of the partners in a couple relationship reduces a little in their working hours, in their careers, and in their leisure interests when the children are young, will eliminate much of the clutter and will affect the children positively. Perhaps we would have less stress and fewer conflicts in the relationships and fewer divorces. I can't help but think that this time-consuming thing is proof that it doesn't work when the politicians in this room decide that it should be equality. One of the reasons why you have problems with stress and conflict in a couple relationship when your children are young is, among other things. that you do not have a good enough distribution of household chores, as we heard, when it comes to washing and washing clothes. We have to get the man on the job and get a better distribution of work when the children are small, unless this is just going to be airy decisions in this room. It would have been an advantage if there had been more men who had participated in this debate today. It's not exactly that we dominate on the pulpit today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e253	The President may agree to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e256	The interpellation of the representative Dagrun Eriksen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs is about how to organise a society where family and work life can be better combined. It is a challenge with the level of costs we have in Norway, to facilitate equality, equal parenthood and freedom of choice for parents. Children shall be properly cared for, children shall have the same starting point and rights to a good life. There are many children in Norway today living below the poverty line. We have children on the run, children on the run, children on medical treatment, etc. An organized and good family policy is the starting point for giving children the opportunity for good growth. Most parents are out of work today. It is often necessary because of economics, but it is also because parents choose to be out of work. Many have difficulty combining parental roles with participation in the labour market. It is necessary to facilitate a working life that combines care and work. SV believes that the maximum price in kindergarten, full babysitting and a legal place in kindergarten is a good offer for both children and adults. Kindergartens need to be adapted more closely to the needs, especially to parents who work on shifts, and with extended opening hours in the commercial sector and more people who work in the care professions, this applies more and more. When we dealt with the family message, SV suggested extending Dad's right to maternity leave by four weeks. We also proposed that the experience with the Icelandic model be assessed and that the model be assessed in Norway. We believe this would facilitate a more equal parenthood. In the last three years, SV has also invested funds in the budgets of pilot projects with the six-hour day. The six-hour day is a good and targeted action. We believe that longer leave and shorter working hours alongside more reasonable housing and better distribution policies would give parents greater freedom of choice and greater opportunity to combine care for children and work. The Christian People's Party has stated that extended leave for father is an important instrument in family policy; the Sem statement says the same thing. Today, fathers with children work more overtime than men without children, probably for economic reasons. When should the Council propose an extension of the right of fathers to leave and concrete measures to improve the daily lives of families with children? It's starting to rush, there's one year left for the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e272	The fact that most women take an active part in this debate must indicate that we are women who are most keenly aware of the timing of the debate. I also notice that while both the inter-pellant and the Council of State are positive to a Round Table when it comes to the problem of time clamping, the representative from the Right in his introduction asserts that the Right trusts that families solve the problems in this area itself. The debate on the issue of time-barriers for young children's parents is not of a new date. The desire for active professional participation combined with care for children is demanding and challenging. The interpellant said this is about more than economics. Of course it's right. Even if there has to be an independent choice of how to organise their everyday lives, we have to bear in mind that many of the decisions that we make and that have to do with economics can be decisive as to whether the past many are inside can be less pressing. For the Centre Party, it is important to point out a number of measures to improve the situation. The paper mission has been mentioned. We can keep doing this. This applies both to the timing bracket and to the gender perspective. Here we only wait for the Council of State of the Christian People's Party. Flexible nursery places for anyone who wants to do so are an important contribution to time policy. Social measures that can be put in place to assist in a time-consuming everyday life include the further development of time accounting systems, the provision of leisure time instead of pay increases for those who want to do so, and the strengthening of care pay systems and various unpaid holiday and leave arrangements for families with young children. I would also like to point to the responsibilities of the labour market when it comes to organisation and flexibility. We also need to be aware that pension schemes must not lead to people not being able to afford reduced working hours. A group that easily misses, and that also experiences the clip of time, are all those who care for their elderly We must not just talk about young children's parents. And not least it applies to all of the insurance companies. Single-parent families have special needs in connection with relief, working time and cooperation on common children. We must have a targeted policy that also takes care of these issues, and not unilaterally concentrate on solutions and measures aimed at families where parents live together. This is also a gender equality debate. As I said, this is not a new phenomenon. But there are perhaps fewer women today who are willing to sacrifice everything for the family. That's often when hugs occur, when mom says from and dad refuses to deprioritize jobs and careers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e289	Let me start with the fact that there are also other phases in life than when you're a baby's parent that one can experience the phase of life. It may be when you get care for sick family members, it may be in a divorce situation, and it may be when you experience a child with a major drug problem. It is in such situations that one can want more flexibility in e.g.: working life, in order to be able to take care of their very closest, or simply to get back into themselves. In such a situation of life, one wants to know that one is sure of a certain income and can focus on what is most important right now. The left suggests that civic pay – or, in other words, a guaranteed minimum income – is one of the solutions to help the individual in such a situation. When it comes to the life phase of those who have spoken about the interpellant, namely toddlers: Norwegian women are in a world-lock when it comes to both professional participation and childbirth rates. Our priorities when it comes to the development of kindergartens and social rights related to birth and care, such as: One-year maternity leave, cash support and child benefit have given us this result. We'll be proud of that. These are good arrangements, but they don't have to stand in the way to make them even better. But we are facing many challenges. The number of economically active versus pensioners will decrease significantly over the course of 10–15 years. In order to take care of and develop our wealth, we need the most possible participation in the world of work. If this challenge is to be addressed, there is also a heavy responsibility on all employers to create a flexible job and to facilitate work so that young children’s parents or others can combine work and care in a life cycle. An extra holiday week for parents with children under 10 years of age, combined with flexible schooling, will help the family to get more freedom together. Left thinks that parents should have the freedom and responsibility to choose the best solutions for their family. We think parents know that job. Many fathers would like to take a greater part in caring for their children. Strengthening Father's dishes, e.g. giving father the independent right to maternity leave based on his own job breaks will also help to increase the real freedom of choice of the individual family. As the interpellant wrote: ‘This debate is about more than just economic transfers.’ Yes, he is also concerned with the demands we make on material good and on the standard of living. Maybe we're making a little too much demands and we're having too much pressure because there's a lot of things we just have to have. Children want to participate in many leisure activities, and parents are expected to do so. Many parents, in addition to jobs outside and at home, will take on responsibility in many different teams and organisations. They make a big effort, and this is not just about self-interest – parents' interest in being part of other teams and organisations. Strengthening voluntary Norway is also helping to remedy the situation of parents in a time lag.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e309	Let me start by saying that I think it is sad that the Workers' Party does not want to be with and discuss the matter. Fortunately, I have experienced that other women from the same party have had an understanding for the young women and men who have put this debate on the agenda. I expect that a good part of these women and men notice that the Workers' Party's posts in this room were more an attack on the Christian People's Party and what we had done and not done than to participate in the debate. We've been concrete. We've had child protection messages here in the hall, we've had growth messages here in the hall, not least we've had family messages here in the hall. We have also had a revision of the equality law that allows some of these things. We've done a lot of concrete things. What we want now is to listen to the needs of young children's parents. We can never discuss that feeling away from it. Right-wing representative Afshan Rafiq just pointed out what I think is very important, that with flexible working life. That is where the Round Table could start a dialogue that could put it on the agenda. As for Ulf Erik Knudsen's posts: that there are only women who participate, I think it's absolutely right. Fortunately, we have seen in the media and in the social debate that men have also participated there. I think it is important that we also listen to them, that this is not just a women's problem, but that we also listen to the experiences of young children's fathers in this matter. It's voluntary to have children, as the Knudsen says. But we also know that as a society we need these children. When the representative says that he has paid for all of these arrangements, I just want to remind him that the children that these families have are the ones who should be involved in paying the Knudsen pension. This is a little interconnected – one for everyone and all for one. When it comes to washing and washing at the home arena, I think it might have been a good idea to subsidize dishwashers – it could have solved some of the work at home! May Hansen was concerned that the growth of children and the role of children in the middle of time is important. I very much agree with that. When it comes to the paperwork, we've done some self-esteem measures, and we're aiming to expand time. What I want to point a little warning index finger to is the Icelandic model. From a time-lag perspective, an Icelandic model will mean that women may not be able to take their breast-feeding period, that, in addition to what you have today, you will have to run between breast-feeding, working and perhaps babysitting to get this done. I'll warn you a little bit about that. We want it to be flexible and optional. There have been many good proposals, both from the representative of Mr Överaas on a good deal of concrete things, and from the representative of Mr Vihovde. I'm taking all of these. I don't think we've solved the time clip, but I think we've put it in focus in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e328	Like the interpellant, I also noticed that the Workers' Party was not really interested in discussing the matter as such, but was attacking a party that has actually done a lot of concrete in this matter over the last few years. Moreover, it was almost ridiculed that the interpellant has asked for a conference, a forum. Such a forum I must say I think is very positive. Of course, a conference, sitting down, won't solve the time clip, but it can be an important play. The answers to the clip of time, based on both this debate and what we have seen in the media, crack a lot. There is a disagreement about the reason. That's why I think it might be wise to sit together and listen, talk to those who are involved in the clamp of time, namely the families, and also talk about what most people agree on, that maybe working life can be better accommodated. I therefore think this is a good proposal. We're going to accept creativity with open arms. So I want to repeat that I believe equality and freedom of choice is the key to finding the balance in the timing debate. There is one small topic that has not been affected — i.e. It's not that small – and it's about how to get father more home, how to get father to take more responsibility, maybe to work part-time, instead of just mother doing it. It also has to do with women's wages. Today, jobs are very segregated in Norway. We have large female-dominated occupational groups in different sectors, and we have man-dominated occupational groups in completely different sectors. For this reason, the gender equality project, the work evaluation project in which the Ministry has now come well halfway, is very important when it comes to preparing a tool for the formation of wages and salaries in the labour market. There we will just look at the relationship between man-dominated and women-dominated occupations and their pay ratios. Finally, a comment to May Hansen on the expanded paper issue. I am very happy that we presented the family message. But it's no longer since December last year that the Storting actually joined in unanimously to the desire to do something about the paper commission. We are the first government to present it to the Stortinget. We got a majority. It's brilliant! SV would go even a little bit further. I think that's great. However, no budget has been submitted since Stortinget filed on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e337	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e351	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e359	Let's go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-25.ana.ud970e368	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 March 2004: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make proposals as soon as possible for an amendment to the disclosure law corresponding to the second paragraph of Section 18 of the Bill on the Riksrevision, cf. Inner. [[2003-2004]] O. No 54 The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, as well as the Centre Party and the Left, want to vote against. - It's nodding.
