ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e27	At the request of the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e36	First, I have to be allowed to correct an incursion that has entered the setting. On page 3, first column, in the section starting with ‘majority of the Committee’, the third line reads ‘both objectives’. Both target forms shall be corrected. Then Stortinget handles St.meld. No 9 for 2001–02, Public Service Target, expressed support for the closure of Norwegian language councils in their current form. The size was also positive for a new language organisation to require functional and organisational changes. The staging has been regularly oriented about the process. This was discussed last time during the management of the Culture Communication and in the 2005 budget proposal, which also mentions the matter. The background to this proposition is that a decision is needed in Odelstinget to repeal the Norwegian Language Council Act, and a Consolent Committee supports this. The proposition gives a thorough review of the transformation process and also discusses the question of whether the new language institution needs to be legally incorporated. In the case of the transformation process, the Ministry has appointed an interim board of seven members appointed by the Ministry. Good contacts shall be established with all parts of the Norwegian language community. This requires an open process, with wide participation from many players. The Interim Board shall draw up a strategy paper for the new institution. The first line of the document shall be to set priorities for action. The aim is to make the new institution the most flexible instrument possible, which can quickly adapt to new challenges and priorities. The requirement for a functional language institution is that the Interim Board will be able to work for about a year. The Committee supports the view of the Ministry that the final position on the functioning of the new institution should not be taken until the interim board has been able to cope with the work they have been set up to do. Although the term of office of the Interim Board is intended to last about one year, the new institution is nevertheless proposed to be established as from 1 January 2005. The Committee supports this, but shares its view on both the need for legal secrecy of the new language institution and the need for the Stortinge to discuss how the new model is finally designed and implemented. The minority, the Labour Party, SV and the Centerpartiet, indicate that the Norwegian language council was created in its time by its own law, and believe that the new institution should also be anchored in law. The ministry does not reject this in the proposition, but claims that it is not appropriate to make a final assessment of this now. The proposition shows that the question of alternative legislation in some form can be considered as part of the further transformation process or later. For the Centre Party, it is important to point out that the Norwegian Language Council Act states that ‘the cultural heritage represented by Norwegian writing and speaking languages’ should be protected. Laws mention a number of measures. In a cross-sectional form, I would like to mention measures to increase knowledge of Norwegian languages, advice to the governmental authorities on language use at school and in the NRK, and advice and guidance to the general public. The Norwegian language is under strong pressure. The English language became more and more familiar in the Norwegian language. The central party believes it is important that the new institution also, through legal secrecy, is more strongly involved in taking care of important language policy issues. Although the department in this round says no to this, I hope that in the further assessments it will be concluded in line with the minority's proposal. I encourage Odelsting to support this setting. At the same time, I would like to put forward the proposal No. 1 and No 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e64	The representative, Eli Sollied Superior, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e67	We agree with the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council. We have no comments beyond that, but we want to promote the proposal we ourselves have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e72	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e75	After the rapporteur's statement, there may not be a need for so many additions. However, the issue itself is important – to get on with strategic work on strengthening Norwegian languages. As a consequence of the establishment of a new centre of expertise for Norwegian languages, the Government proposes that the Norwegian Language Council be closed. Through the examination of the cultural message, Stortinget has confirmed its support for the establishment of such a centre of excellence. The new institution shall initially carry out more out-of-way work and place a high emphasis on awareness-raising activities. The project outline drawn up by the Ministry states that the institution must have a broader societal base than can be achieved through a regular representation of the Council with formal decisions. Reference groups, seminars and e-mail forums are mentioned as appropriate forms of communication in further language policy work. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are very positive about the establishment of such a centre of competence for Norwegian language and believe that this will strengthen language policy work. Two parties want a new legal base to set up the new institution from 1 January 2005. The Christian People's Party does not see any need for this at this stage, but believes that this can be assessed as part of the further reorganisation process. It may be important to await further evaluation of the hearing opinions received. In addition, the appointed Interim Board should be given the opportunity to deal with all aspects of the reorganisation before a final decision is taken as to whether the new institution needs such an authorisation. It is natural that this is part of the strategic work for which the Interim Council is responsible. The Christian People's Party will underline the need to find good strategies to preserve and further develop Norwegian languages. I would like to stress that this must apply to both the writing languages, both the book language and the new Norwegian language. Today, both of our national languages are in their own way under a strong pressure, as the case-in-law rapporteur also stressed. The creation of the new centre seems to us to be of great importance in this context, and it is important that – and there is reason to stress – there is also the resources that are needed to succeed in this work. In the Culture Communication, the Government points out that there should also be close cooperation and a good division of labour between the new centre of competence for Norwegian languages, the centre of expertise for new Norwegian media languages and the Nynorsk cultural centre. The Nynorsk Cultural Centre Foundation owns and operates the Ivar Aasen Tunet and implements a wide cultural programme all year round, with the highlight of the Ninnorse Festival. The media center in Förde operates on its side, among others. external course activities in the field of nynostry and media literacy. The Christian People's Party will underline that public cultural policy should stimulate cooperation between different language institutions and shift the overall competences they manage. It will also strengthen the ability to cope with the ever-increasing pressure from other languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e101	The proposition that Odelstinget manages today is part of a work on facilitating a new and more offensive language policy. Around the turn of the millennium, a linguistic change has taken place in most European countries. The major challenge is to put in place a strategy to ensure the different mother tongues as well as good social languages in the future. The Norwegian language council was a fruit of its time, a special construction that sprang out of the strange language situation as he had evolved in the decades after the war. This was a successful construction. The Norwegian language council has largely fulfilled its historic mission. Now a new instrument is needed, which is both organisational and functionally adapted to a new time. The Ministry has provided for an institutional transformation in several stages. Gradually, the process has come so far that it is natural to establish the new institution from 1 January 2005. The current Norwegian Language Council Act is now being repealed. I am pleased that a colleague's committee supports this proposal. The Labour Party and the Centre Party propose that the Government submit proposals on how the new institution can be incorporated into law. SV suggests that the Government returns to Storting as soon as possible with a legislative proposal. I don't want to reject a possible law anchoring, but I don't want to bind myself on this question. Recently, the Interim Board has appointed a working group to address challenges, objectives and strategies in the Norwegian language policy. The distribution should be ready by 1 September 2005. It is natural that the issue of law is also assessed in the light of the distribution work to be done here. The question of minority languages and other non-Norwegian languages will also be a matter of course to come back to later. Otherwise, work will continue on the question of how the new institution will be organised and managed on a permanent basis. My intention is of course to come back to Stortinget with this question, most likely once in the autumn of 2005. The duration of operation of the Interim Control products to a permanent control system is in place. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, I see this as quite unnecessary. Let me again stress that the conversion of Norwegian language councils is gradual. We've wanted to involve a lot of people in the process. We work out and evaluate relevant questions in the course of the process, and the implementation happens as the various pieces fall into place. It is a natural consequence of this that the Ministry has not drawn all the conclusions in advance. However, I can assure the Progress Party that there is no lack of work to be done for the new institution. The problem is enough to be a priority. It must also be stressed that during the whole process of transformation, Norwegian language councils have been fully active in caring for both old and new tasks. The new institution formally established at the end of the year will continue this work and will therefore be fully operational from the first day. A new language policy and institution also do not mean that more traditional language policy issues become obsolete. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that ensuring the Norwegian language for the future of course must also include active work to support neo-Norwegian language and culture. I can thus fully associate myself with the comment from the Committee majority, all of whom disagree with the Advancement Party, on the importance of both forms being widely used, not least in radio and television and in all public sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e129	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 79]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e145	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e154	A new law on the labour market in Norway to replace the Employment Act is an important issue. This is a law in an area that is very important, both for the country and for too many people every day. Therefore, it is important that this law helps Aetat to fulfil the important function it has, both on behalf of society and to individuals. There are major changes happening throughout this field. A little bit out in winter, we get one thing about merging parts of or maybe the whole Aetat, the social security system and parts of the social field. It can guarantee that there may be some changes in all the underlying laws that relate to these matters. It has taken into account the Committee and the Government and said that it is an opening to come back to. It's impossible to understand today. That's what we have to do when everything's right. But the government has assured us that the changes it has now proposed will not make that work more difficult. Most of what the Government has presented has been approved by the Committee. But there's some relationship that a majority has had a different view of. I'll explain to them, but also some of what we agree on. I believe that one of the main steps taken in the new bill is to give each person the right to a written need assessment. It shall contain the services of Aetat which he or she may need in order to have a chance of obtaining and retaining a job. It's very important. However, this need assessment does not give any right to action. However, it is normally necessary to assume that Aetat should have the objective of actually offering the measures to be taken in such an assessment of needs. Everyone thinks this should be evaluated. The majority in the committee believe that this evaluation must be carried out quickly, because it is very important that this is not a kind of paper determination, that is, that one has the right to have a paper sheet on which it is written, but that there is nothing more than that. I think it would seem very negative if we ended up with it, that there would be a kind of individual plan that is just a right to get a written assessment and nothing more. The point is that Aetat, with the way they're working now, actually is able to systemate their job to the individual in a better way than they've done up to now. There has been a debate in connection with this proposition on whether there are several who are to have a type of right related to Aetat services. A majority of the Committee would point out that it may be right for several to have such a right. It has been pointed to several groups, for example: young people and the long-term unemployed who leave the day-to-day allowance period. There has also been a reference to people with disabilities who have a type of right when they are first assessed, but the question is whether this should be reinforced. The majority do not take this into account in this position, but refer both to the budget and to the major issue of any merger of the agencies. The purpose has been discussed and the majority of the Committee has wanted anti-discrimination to be incorporated into the objective of the law. We have found it strange that the Government, the government parties and the Progress Party initially did not agree to this. It has surprised me very much, because otherwise the government has reduced selection precisely because there is discrimination in the labour market, and also created a common enforcement system because there is discrimination in the labour market – and we know that there is a great deal of discrimination in the labour market. That is why it has been quite natural for the majority that anti-discrimination should be the aim. It has also been a problem that Aetat should have tasks that would discriminate on its own. And I have to say, we're very surprised, because Aeta's task is to make sure that someone is not equal in the labour market. That's the whole purpose of Aeta's duties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e175	The Labour Party sees the need to revise legislation within the labour market services. We are also pleased that the proposal still allows for a public labour market seat to be responsible for implementing labour market policy. I have also registered that assistance for both jobseekers and employers is specifically mentioned. And that's good in our opinion. As we see it, these are the most important premises in the laws, as well as an important clarification, namely that one should continue to have the right to prevent and mitigate the damage caused by unemployment. This is an important signal in relation to the national labour market policy which is expected. In June this year, Stortinget will deal with St.meld. No 19 for 2003–04, and I see these signals in relation to what else the Storting joins in this matter. In the proposition under item 5.3, the Ministry writes that the objective is not intended to indicate the content of the welfare policy, and that therefore there is no need to say anything more about the working line than what is in the proposal. I can understand that and accept it from the fact that the tools and policies can and must vary according to the needs of the labour market. Against this background, the Labour Party believes that the content of the text itself takes into account the fundamental need we have to ensure political governance and control of labour market policy by continuing the traditional line of public responsibility. Today, it seems reasonable that Aetat's different user groups are not defined as such. The government agency in its response to the ministry has suggested that they should be defined. However, I see that it may make sense to legislate for some groups, such as the disabled, the long-term unemployed and young people, in addition to what is owed by current laws and regulations. We will not decide on or propose this now, but we will inform you that one will come back to this question in connection with the handling of the case of a new labour and welfare management. When it comes to the proposal on the right to an assessment of needs, it has several aspects. The self content of the idea behind the proposal, that everyone should have the right to a quick clarification of their situation, is good. As I understand it, Aetat already has such a practice today, which largely takes care of this concern. But it is important to be aware that such clarification does not trigger anyone right in addition to the fact that Aetat has to commit to a concrete effort or some kind of service. A majority of the committee requests that the scheme be evaluated after one year, to see if the scheme is functional and works according to the intention. When it comes to the Council of Aetat, it is probably right that the Council has not worked optimally. But it does not, in our opinion, mean that the Council should or should be laid down. I would also like to point out, as it says in the setting, that it is provided by ILO Convention No. 88 to establish cooperation with the social partners through advisory committees. We therefore need to make it possible for the Council to improve and work more in line with this. I would like to point out that the Labour Party believes this among other things. can be done by obtaining the opinion of the Executive Board of the Directorate of Labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e190	This proposition contains a proposal for a new law to replace the previous law of 27 June 1947 No. 9 on measures to promote employment. A complete revision of the Employment Act has long been needed, as it is not in time on several points. At the latest for treatment of Ot.prp. No 70 for 2001–2002 on the organisation of Aetas this was notified. In this case, a general modernisation of the law is proposed. Particular attention has been paid to clarifying the rights and obligations of the various actors in order to enhance the effective legal certainty of users. At the same time, it is proposed to clarify certain procedural rules of the Administrative Act. The biggest changes from old law are precisely that Aeta's obligation to provide service is made clear. Furthermore, Aetat’s main tasks are clarified in a separate paragraph. It is proposed that Aetat's registration of jobseekers, clarification of the competence of jobseekers and assessment of the need for services are regulated by law. The obligation of Aetat to ensure user involvement is statutory. The relationship with the Administrative Act is clarified. Former law regulated in its own provision Aetat's right to refuse employers who no longer fulfilled reasonable requirements, registration or other services. This provision is now proposed to be removed. Furthermore, it is worth mentioning that the bill continues the rules on the obligation to notify Aetat vacancies. In the case of mass redundancies, it is proposed to reserve the obligation to notify cases where the working time is reduced for more than four weeks to less than 50 pst. This is a reduction from the previous determination, where there was a reduction of less than 30 hours. There is also reason to note that the terms ‘private employment services’ and ‘retirement of labour’ are proposed in the legal text. Furthermore, it is proposed that previous provisions require the registration of intermediary and rental activities as a limited liability company, a public limited-liability company, or the suspension of guarantees. In summary, I would like to stress the importance of modernising the legal text. It is not proposed to make the major changes, but the law is simplified to a great extent. In addition, Aetat’s obligation to follow-up is reinforced and the requirements, which have been the most comparable in the past to sand piercing compared to private intermediaries, are removed. I also find reason to show that there is a broad consensus in this room to combat unemployment. There is reason to point to positive developments in the labour market that improve the possibilities of an inclusive working life. Aetate has a central role in the implementation of labour market policy, and I would like to remind you that Aetate has been strengthened by funds corresponding to nearly 700 annual works in the period 2003–2005. Overall, this is the largest resource supply to Aetate in many years. I would like to point out that there is a great deal of emphasis on strengthening Aetate to provide better guidance and follow-up to jobseekers. It is important to ensure good efforts so that people who depend on temporary social security benefits or social assistance can become self-sufficient through regular work. On this basis, I would recommend the legislative proposal adopted, with the amendments set out in proposal No. 1, 2 and 3, which I have the honour to promote on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, as well as proposal No. 4, which is promoted on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e211	The representative Hans Kristian Hogsnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e214	The Progress Party will be able to substantially endorse this revision of the law that we are discussing today, where the current employment law will be replaced by a whole new labour market law. However, the actual changes in the new labour market law compared to the current employment law are less extensive, as I see it. All in all, much of the content of the employment law in force in the new labour market law continues. The law changes its name, but changes its content somewhat less. The Progress Party has noted that the very structure and organisation of Aetat is not discussed in the proposal and that the current structure of Aetat is continued in the Labour Market Act. The new Labour Market Act will continue Aetat's tasks, as they are under the Employment Act today; Aetat's main tasks will continue to help job-seekers obtain jobs, help employers to obtain labour and mitigate the adverse effects of unemployment, among others. through instruments in the form of different labour market measures. However, the Progress Party agrees that it is correct and important that the new law should be clarified more clearly than the existing employment law should give Aetat a statutory obligation to provide better user service and that users’ rights should be clarified better. The new Labour Market Act also continues the practice that annual government budget appropriations are crucial for the scope and dimensioning of labour market measures. As a result, labour market policy is also significantly influenced by the annual budgetary priority in addition to purely regulated conditions. Let me mention that the Advance Party wants a free and self-regulatory labour market and working life. I am of the opinion that the intention of a well-functioning, flexible and robust Norwegian labour market can best be achieved without excessive regulation of all conditions in the labour market and in the labour market. Conditions, agreements governing relations between the employer and the employee should be entrusted to the social partners to a greater extent, in order to understand that individual employees and employers must be able to conclude individual employment contracts relating to, for example: working time, overtime work and other working conditions on a freer basis than is permitted by the law today. The Progress Party also considers that the Norwegian labour market is in the long term the best served with an increasing degree of flexibility compared to, for example, the Norwegian labour market. working time, employment contracts, private employment services and the provision of labour. A forward-looking and modern Norwegian labour market policy is important in order to create a more robust and competitive Norwegian business and working life – this is because Norway has very limited opportunities to report out of the rapidly increasing globalisation. Therefore, the Progress Party has little sense of the restrictions contained in this Labour Market Act on private employment services and labour renting, cf. Section 26 on private employment services and Section 27 on the rental of labour. I do not see at all any decisive arguments for the limitations in the private employment services and rentals contained in these two paragraphs. Overall, the Norwegian labour market will be best served with the lowest possible legal restrictions in both of these areas, to which I refer here. I would therefore like to clarify that the Progress Party will therefore vote against the entire section 26 on private employment services and against the whole section 27 on labour renting – this because we believe that there is no pressing need for such regulation in the form of law in these areas, and that these paragraphs are unfortunate if the intention, a more efficient employment service, and the objective, a self-regulating and flexible working life are to be achieved. I would therefore like to end by asking the President to put the vote up in an appropriate way in relation to the views of the Progress Party in this area. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e235	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e238	Participation in the labour market is the most important safeguard for social inclusion and against poverty. An inclusive work life that prevents people from being ostracized is so important. For the Christian People's Party, it is an overarching goal to reduce unemployment and facilitate a working life with room for all. It is therefore gratifying to record positive developments in the labour market in general and work on an inclusive working life in particular. Aetat has a central role to play in reducing unemployment, especially in the case of people with difficulties in relation to the labour market. For this reason, the Cooperation Government has implemented the largest resource supply to Aetat for many years, with about 560 new annual works. In addition to this, there will be additional permissions and framework transfers from the social security system in 2004. A total of 160 settings have therefore been transferred to Aetat in connection with the collection of professional rights in Aetat. This has provided a basis for strengthening the guide and for closer follow-up of jobseekers. But we have to take several steps: First, we need to ensure good services, so that people who are dependent on provocation or social assistance can become self-sufficient through work. Secondly, we need to ensure that Aetat can be further developed as a well-serviced establishment for the users. Thirdly, we must ensure that those who need assistance in the job search process receive active follow-up from Aetat. And fourth, we need to secure a law that is consistent with today's needs, that strengthens legal certainty, and that clarifies the various actors' rights and obligations. The proposed changes in labour laws that we are now debating are precisely the basis for this. Not least, we believe that the requirement for a written need assessment of all jobseekers will contribute to better and more accurate measures, not least by enabling the jobseeker to participate and influence. Labour market measures will continue to be an important tool in relation to outsourced groups in the labour market. But the Christian People's Party does not think it is right to introduce guarantees or statutory rights for one or more groups of unemployed. We know that the need for current priorities will and should vary with time. We therefore believe it is very important to have flexibility in the law that gives room to follow the developments in the labour market. The quality and timeliness of services is guaranteed in line with the needs of the unemployed. In today's situation, in our opinion, there is a particular need to give priority to groups such as the disabled, the long-term unemployed and the young. However, it is not certain that these groups will be in greatest need of assistance in the future. However, the need to give priority to the disabled will most likely be permanent for Aetat. That is also in line with the Christian People's Party's priorities. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre will have a paragraph on discrimination into law. The Christian People's Party believes that this is mixing the cards. Let it be clear: the Christian People's Party is against all forms of discrimination, including in the labour market. However, this should not be confused with discrimination or special treatment. Labour market policy is largely based on the positive special treatment of disadvantaged groups in the labour market. Special treatment is provided in the form of priorities for different target groups, such as: immigrants or young people. The introduction of a rules of discrimination in labour law is not curative, and it will be important to have careful assessments of the precision and limitations that must be made in order to further develop today's labour market policy. The Christian People's Party believes that the discrimination it is actually talking about in this area is preserved by the law that obliges the employer to ensure that there is no discrimination in addition to employment or otherwise. Furthermore, Aetat should not be associated with control tasks related to legislation that is in the hands of other management bodies. This applies both to discrimination and to the control function of protecting job seekers from social dumping and unprofessional employment. This also strongly warns Aetat against. The Christian People's Party will insist that Aetat be a service provider for those looking for a job and not build up functions that overlap tasks in other bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e281	The centre party believes that it is still necessary to focus on modernisation, efficiency and renewal. But then the measures taken must be for the better. I agree with the case-speaker's emphasis on the areas in which the committee is associated with the department. It is also made clear in the setting in which area there are shared views in the Committee. But I want to jump under a few points. The centre party wants a stronger commitment to unemployment and to social dumping. We are then the product of all the proposals that come and that will contribute in this way. That is why we thought it worth following up that the Swedish National Agency believes that the disabled should be seen better in the law. Therefore, we thought it important to have anti-discrimination rules incorporated into the law. That is why we also thought it important that a person in Aetat should be responsible for each jobseeker. We also thought it wise that the Council existed, that is, that we have a party-set selection until a new organisation of labour and welfare services has been created. So we feel a strong frustration over what has been proposed here when it comes to the obligation to notify mass-disposal. Should be such that Aetat should focus only on those with at least 50 pst at a time when sub-settings increase significantly. position? We're deeply disagreed about that. Aetat should have a broader focus. In line with our commitment to social dumping, we felt that it is very important to put in place an authorisation scheme or other requirements that are capable of ensuring the seriousness of the labour market renting. I must say that in relation to the debates we had in ours at that very point, this need has intensified over the summer. So finally, at the tame of the committee treatment, a problem was raised that none of us have mentioned in the setting, and that's what's under point 9.1.5, which applies to special rules for the dissemination of seafarers. It's ILO Convention No. 179 that makes it necessary. The Ministry says that they will carry out a regulatory attachment. I would just like to ask the Council of State to confirm that he will prepare such a regulation in consultation with relevant organisations on both the employer and employer sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e299	The starting point for the proposal for the Labour Market Services Act is to clean up today's legislation, which is small in time, i.e. which in some respects do not comply with current practices and perceptions. Both in Ot.prp. No 70 for 1998-1999 and in Ot. pp. No 70 for 2001-2002 a full review of today’s law was announced, which dates from 1947. Law on labour market services is a proposal for a relatively small law. However, this is an important legislative audit. The law applies to a nationwide and too many users, namely Aetat. I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement on the main principles of the bill. I have noted, in addition to the Committee's specific comments on the legislative proposal itself, the Committee's reference to the position of the Rattsø Committee on new work and welfare management. Like the committee, I understand that there may and will be a need to amend this law as well as other laws when the Stortinge case is dealt with. However, it has been important to adopt the proposal for a new law on labour market services now. Firstly, it may take some time for new labour and welfare management to be set up, and secondly, this bill contains provisions which also need to be reviewed in the context of such a new model. The connection in the setting of such proposals gives us the opportunity to try out new measures in practice and get feedback from users. I also look at the Committee's position, despite differing views on instruments, that it expresses high ambitions in relation to what is expressed in the law's provision of purpose, an inclusive working life through a well-functioning labour market with high professional participation and low unemployment. These objectives are the broad political consensus in Norway. The main innovations in the legislative proposal are the emphasis on strengthening users’ legal certainty and influence. A right is proposed for each Aetat user to assess their needs for labour market services and a provision is proposed to ensure that users are involved in the planning and evaluation of Aetat services. At the same time, the law makes an important clean-up and simplification in today's legislation. This applies, inter alia, to: the scope of the administrative law’s rules of procedure for decisions on labour market measures, where there is now greater clarity as to how Aetat is to comply with the administrative law’s rules of procedure, including the rules on due diligence and the right to appeal. In sum, the legislative proposal provides a significantly simpler and clearer regulatory framework for Aetat services, while at the same time strengthening the user perspective. The legislative proposal provides a better starting point for the legislative changes that will later be needed as a result of the work on a new and more integrated labour and welfare management. Let me briefly go into some of the main points of the proposal. A right is proposed for each jobseeker to assess their needs for services. The assessment will indicate whether employment services, guidance, qualification or other labour market instruments are necessary and appropriate for the jobseeker to have his or her opportunities improved on the labour market. The assessment shall be given in writing and will provide a basis for a clearer explanation of the service of the establishment. I am pleased that the Committee has pointed out that this must be followed up. I will ensure that evaluation is carried out, as stated in the debate. The size has previously asked for user involvement to be ensured in Aetat. On this basis, systematic user involvement has already been carried out through a central user forum and through the local user forum in all countries of the country. With the bill, user involvement will now be ensured by law. It is proposed to repeal today's statutory obligation to have advice for Aetate. It is not natural that the forms of contact between Aetate and the social partners should be regulated by law. This should be assessed on an ongoing basis in cooperation with the parties. It is proposed to abolish the requirement that activities engaged in the private distribution and rental of workers be registered as a public limited-liability company or public limited-liability company, as the case may be, as a guarantee. This requirement was introduced in 1998 with a view to ensuring the seriousness of these industries. The fact that the requirement is now being proposed is a technical assessment of the non-function of the requirement for its purpose. The Government proposed to remove the current provision that jobseekers or workers who do not meet ‘reasonable requirements in the context of dissemination’ may be refused assistance from Aetat, i.e. be excluded from the services. The provision was originally incorporated as a rule of order and discipline. In practice, it has also been used, among others. to employers who can be proven to be engaged in illegal activities. I take note that the Committee considers that such a provision is still needed. I have also noticed that the Stortinget believes that the provision should be applicable to workers and companies that do not meet reasonable demands made by Aetate in connection with their services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e337	I have a question related to point 10 about sanctions. There is today a company that refuses to organize. There may also be a company that pays e.g. overtime with goods, or they pay a wage far below that of the tariff-fest. My question to the Council of State is: Would such a company be able to claim that they are engaged in so-called legal activity, as § 2 makes it known as an attachment to Aetat's assistance, and may, if necessary, refuse to employ companies such as Aetat. break working environment laws and current collective bargaining agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e342	In my opinion, Section 2 of the Act deals with the scope of the Act, in principle with the same thing as the majority in the proposal for Section 28, on exclusion on the basis that there are illegal acts or illegal activities affected. I have noticed that the majority believe that the provision for refusal of assistance should be applicable to workers and enterprises that do not meet reasonable requirements of Aetate in relation to their services, including, inter alia, in the case of social dumping and unprofessional working conditions. And where there are clear offences, it is clear that the conditions for such use must be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e347	I have to say that I find it somewhat strange that you need to make the law that it is illegal for private employment services to be able to pay for an intermediary service to a jobseeker. And I have to say that I also consider the limitations the law permits regarding hiring out labour, as something strange. Does the Council of State really believe that these legal limitations which he here refers to in terms of private employment services and the hiring out of workers are strengthening the efforts to provide unemployed workers, or strengthening the possibilities of creating a more flexible and self-regulatory working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e352	I believe that whoever wants to change the legal situation is the one who should justify what is burdensome reasons for doing so. In my opinion, the removal of the condition that the jobseeker cannot be charged by private employment services is not sufficiently justified, and in my view, a detailed analysis of the effects would have to be made. It's not done. In addition, the legislative proposal defines the terms ‘private employment services’ and ‘renting workers’ in the legislative text, and the definitions go beyond the legal status of the current law as to who is covered by the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e357	There are two things I need to ask the Council of State about. The first concerns the verbal proposal of the majority, asking the Government to ‘promote proposals for guidelines, approval schemes or other requirements that are suitable for ensuring the seriousness of the rental industry’. We know that there is social dumping in Norway today, and we know that those who are most vulnerable to it are people who have poor links with the labour market, who are unemployed and desperately looking for work. And then it's important that we go in and ensure the seriousness of those industries, especially because the service industry has asked for it. They are well aware of this and know that within these industries there are some unprofessional actors. So it's hard to understand why the government doesn't meet it. The second question relates to the dissemination of Aetat’s knowledge of rights to education. And I think it's a little bad in terms of getting an investigation into a big estate where people are going to be able to go in one door and get a grip on everything they can help themselves with when they're out of work. What is the reason why the Council of State is so afraid that Aetat should be obliged to inform well about the rights that people have to education?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e366	It is not the case that the Council of State is concerned that Aetat should inform well about the offers made by other agencies and about the rights of the law administered by others other than Aetat. The question here is whether it should be legalised as an obligation for the entity in relation to the main tasks that Aetat must have. And that's another discussion. I believe that an overall approach to information to the groups involved is important, even if you don't necessarily type it in here. As far as measures against social dumping are concerned, in my view, it is a very important issue. I believe that we have a number of measures that are now in place. We see that the instrument of the Public Service Act is now in use, and I believe that before new measures are introduced, the functioning of the measures we have already taken should be assessed in cooperation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e373	It is possible that I was a little inattentive, but in my contribution I asked the Council of State to confirm that when it comes to the dissemination of seafarers, he would draw up a regulation in consultation with the organisations to which it applies. I repeat it now, so he gets the opportunity to verify it. This bill was presented on 16 April this year. Since then, we have been given the EEA extension, and we already see the consequences in terms of labour immigration and in relation to the provision of foreign labour. Yes, we've had publicization in seven rural areas, but it's going to be a while before there's talk of public administration in several workplaces. And here, therefore, both employee organisations, the UDI and the National Association of Service Companies have asked that the requirements that are currently imposed on companies operating rentals should not be removed. How can it be that the Government is holding on to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e380	Let me first say that the representative Meltveit Kleppa was not inattentive. I did not address this question in my post, but I can confirm that I have noticed the majority in the committee writing in their comments, and will work on a follow-up to it. With regard to the EEA enlargement measures, we have put in place and follow-up the transitional arrangements adopted by the Storting. We have seen that the Public Service Act, which was adopted early in the 1990s in connection with the conclusion of the EEA Agreement itself, works as intended. I intend to follow this field closely and have established close cooperation with the social partners, and will discuss the consequences of EEA enlargement and the need for any other measures and instruments with the parties already at a meeting of the Employment Policy Council this month.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e387	Sometimes we can read in the media that adding to Aetat at times is subject to tacks and other tactful behaviour from jobseekers. This can be e.g. be treasons that are not the result of today's criminal law. As I understand the current employment law, she has decisions in her own right to say that Aetat can in fact refuse to help people who are perpetuating such acts against workers in Aetat. My simple question will then be: why will the ministry not continue this decision, as I have understood that Aetat has also requested in his hearing statement to the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e394	Threats against public officials are illegal and punishable in Norway, irrespective of the place where the official or woman concerned represents. The protection of criminal law is independent of the way in which this legislation is regulated in relation to Aetate in particular. I would say that legal protection is important, and it is important that that kind of action is followed up. But in my view, it is primarily a question of criminal law responses and not of services in relation to Aetat, although there may also be a connection between these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e400	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e405	I have to say that I don't think the Council of State is responding very well to the Aetat and information about the rights to education, because no one has proposed this legislation. It is simply a political emphasis from a majority of the Committee that says this is important. It's very important that you have a broad understanding of this when you're going to make a big deal where people are going to be able to walk inside one door and get information and assistance in the areas they need. Then it seems very strange that you kind of try to push this theme away, because it's so incredibly important for a lot of the unemployed that they get education. So it's strange that you take such an attitude. So to this with social dumping. Yes, it is true that in some areas tariff agreements have been published, and SV strongly recommends it. It is a good tool, but it has not happened in any of the areas I referred to in my post, namely the service sector. The service industry has asked Stortinget and the Government to assess some measures to ensure the seriousness of this industry. The statistics also show that this is where people get sick and dissatisfied. There are tough conditions in that industry, and they also recruit a lot of those who are out of the labour market in precarious employment. I have to say that I am concerned that you do not see it and that you are not even willing to assess such measures in order to secure an industry where the most vulnerable jobs are. Then I'm kind of in the mood about the explanation of vote of the Progress Party here instead. I would just like to point out that the proposal from the majority to the second paragraph of Section 26 is identical in content to the minority proposal, No. 4th@item: inlistbox There is therefore a broad consensus in the Storting that no payment should be made by the jobseeker for intermediary services. I expect the President to put the vote to the vote so that it becomes clear that there will be a majority for the content of it, so that this rather surprising explanation of vote will not result in the adoption of a legislative provision lacking this important matter, because it is very important also for the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e414	I'm just going to expand out two ratios. One is what I took up in my article on seafarers, where I referred to point 9.5.1 of the proposition, which refers to the special rules as ILO Convention No. 179. So it was a question that came up so late in the committee's discussion that the committee does not mention it in particular. I am forced to stress that precisely because the Council of State referred to the committee, because it is an area that the committee does not mention. But I think it's necessary for the Council of State to confirm when he announces a regulation in this area, that it should be done in consultation with the organisations it is in. I take this up because it's sown insecurity. Please contact the Department without having to find out what content the Department actually intends to have. So the question of action against social dumping. In paragraph 9.3.3 of the Proposition, the Ministry states that the proposal to lift the requirement to register as a limited liability company or public limited liability company, or to obtain a guarantee, is retained. It is clear that there are several organisations, including: The Norwegian Engineering Organisation, LO, the National Association of Service Companies and the UDI, which oppose this proposal, precisely justifying the fact that it would be more difficult to sort the serious companies from the unprofessional ones. So the ministry sticks to its proposal, but they finally say: ‘The Ministry will at the same time point out that detailed conditions for the notification, reporting, supervision, organisation and operation of intermediary and rental undertakings may be laid down in a regulation if necessary.’ If the Council of State follows this area closely, I would also ask him to follow up on what the Government itself writes here can be implemented as a measure against social dumping, i.e. regulation fixing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e429	Let me try to clarify in the dialogue between the representative Karin Andersen and me that I have not expressed myself against the political objective that the labour and welfare management in Norway should inform widely in relation to the target groups for which it is responsible. Of course, it should primarily inform about the instruments it manages itself, but it is my clear expectation that it will be possible to have an overview of, refer to and inform about what other agencies have to contribute to. So I hope it should be out of the world. On the issue of social dumping measures, there is a problem that I can assure you that in close contact with the social partners I am following very closely. We have set up a joint working group that follows developments in particular in the context of EEA enlargement, and we will have feedback from that work in a wide-ranging meeting with the parties on 24 November. Of course, we will also consider measures that can ensure the seriousness of different industries. It's something that we're constantly focusing on from different sides of the government apparatus, it's the different agencies and control authorities that operate in relation to business and business, and of course I'll also focus on this from my point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e438	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 79]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e454	Inner. O. No 11 for 2004-2005, the use of compulsory pay in the employment dispute between the OFS and the Norwegian Shipowners' Federation. A majority in the committee, all parties unaccepted SV, support the proposal in the proposal. The majority emphasises that Stortinget does not take a position on the basis of the conflict. I find reason to make a special point of that, because this year, and also in the previous case, the municipal committee has been discussing measures and promoting strong points of view when it comes to social dumping. The proposition has made good progress in the negotiation of parties, mediation and the effects of the conflict. The majority refers to the government's founding: a stop in production on Norwegian pedestal will have serious economic and social consequences. So the majority supports the government's proposal. SV's reason for rejecting the proposal is set out in the SV's comments in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e467	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 87]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e475	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e482	Eirin Faldet has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e485	As the argument in this case is that the Government will come back to Stortinget with a matter of gender-neutral marriage law, I would ask the Socialist Left Party to withdraw its proposal, so that the matter may come up again after the country meetings have been held.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e490	In the light of the debate we have had today, in which it has been argued that this needs to come up at the national meetings of the various parties, we are drawing up the proposal. We're going to promote it again in this period, after the national meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e495	It would have been okay if the president had got a hint about this earlier. I guess it's about proposal No. 2, from SV. – It is confirmed. Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. When proposal No 2 now drawn, remaining proposal No 1 by Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 3, from Eli Sollied Practices on behalf of the Center Party
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e536	In the course of the debate, 12 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, the proposals No. 3 and 4, by Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, 5-12, from Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Before we go to voting on the vote, the President will raise proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e582	The Progress Party has warned that once this proposal has fallen, they will support it subsidiaryly. As regards proposal No: 4, the President assumes that it is natural for the Progress Party to draw this proposal now when proposal No. 3, about repealing the law, has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e585	It can be confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e592	We shall now proceed to the other proposals. That is proposal No. 2 by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and the proposals No. 5–12 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting within two years with an evaluation of the consequences of the 60 per cent regional breakdown introduced, and whether this has worked according to the Government’s intention.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e822	Paragraphs 10(a), (b) and (c) present an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 13 June 1997 No 53 on the supervision of acquisitions in day-to-day press and broadcasting are amended as follows:New § 10(a), (b) and (c) are replaced by the following:National restrictions on ownership Significant ownership in the media market is normally considered to exist nationally:(a) by control of a share of 1/3 or more of the total daily circulation of the day-to-day press, (b) by control of a share of 1/3 or more of the total television viewing figures, (c) by control of a share of 1/3 or more of the total radio listening figures;’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e993	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1003	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1010	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Eli Sollied Överaas, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 3, from Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1065	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1075	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1082	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Hans Kristian Hogsnes, on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 4, by Hans Kristian Hogsnes on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, from Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1112	For § 1, there is an aberrant proposal, no. 1 from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party – the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1177	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party – the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the position. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4 shall be replaced by the following:Aetat shall ensure that user representatives are consulted in the planning and evaluation of Aetat’s services.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1262	In the second sentence of the first subparagraph, there is an aberrant proposal, paragraph. 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party – the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1489	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Right and Christian Party to the Second Section. Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left want to move towards the first and second paragraphs of the setting. In addition, the progress party will move towards the third and fourth paragraphs. The first and second paragraphs of the configuration are quoted - the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1503	It is then voted over the proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party to the second paragraph, which now becomes the first paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 26 shall be replaced by the following:Activities engaged in private employment services may not require payment by the jobseeker of the intermediary service.’; The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre can now support this proposal subsidiaryly, but that the Progress Party will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1523	The position of the Committee shall then be contested to the third and fourth paragraphs, which shall now become the second and third paragraphs. The Party of Progress is likely to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1558	Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left want to move towards the first paragraph, while the Advance Party will also move towards the second and third paragraphs. It is votered over the first paragraph – the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1572	The Committee's position on Section 27, second and third paragraphs, which is now the first and second subparagraphs, is then contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1672	For the first sentence of the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law on social security, the first sentence of Section 4-28 shall be replaced by the following:If a member has provided incorrect information on matters relevant to the right to unemployment benefits and was aware or should have been aware of this, Aetat may decide to exclude him from the right to daily allowance for up to 12 weeks for the first time and up to 52 weeks for repetition within the last three years.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1971	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1981	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e1991	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e2023	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e2036	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Socialist Left will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower-2.ana.ud2148e2050	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
