ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower.ana.ud1726e74	During today's defence debate, we have been through many major and some minor issues. The order mechanism has also been affected earlier today, and this is a major issue. Several aspects of this case have already been highlighted. However, I would like to stress two points that are important to the Workers' Party in this matter. Firstly, it is the Storting that determines how the command system should be. I believe that the command system has become much better after the Storting has laid down its leadership. There is also one of the changes the Storting has made in relation to the Government's legislative proposal. I am also pleased that the command system will be developed and established with the involvement of the personnel organisations. Secondly, I would like to stress that the majority, the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party want the arrangement to be evaluated over the long term. That's good. I feel absolutely certain that the minority does not oppose it. I would like to stress here that the command organisations should be involved in the evaluation. I would also like to point out that Section 5 of the Act states after Stortingen's treatment that personnel can extend their attachment to the Defence for up to three years. The second amendment to the law is that everyone for whom the Defense is an employer will now be treated in a non-discriminatory way. A unanimous committee - from the SV to the Progress Party - is in this position to ensure that the protection of professional qualifications should be harmonised with the protection of the employment of all other employees in the State. I will further refer to what has been said earlier today about the obligation to order. The majority of the Committee believes that this is right in our time, but stresses that the obligation to order should be exercised as flexibly as possible. The majority also point out that health, welfare and family reasons warrant the appropriate exercise of the obligation of appeal. In other words, it's not that the law prohibits anyone from using common sense. I will briefly draw attention to the part of the proposition that deals with the abstinence. At this point, the Committee expresses a broad consensus. Finally, I would like to point out that an overall committee believes that international operations can be a burden. In addition to conflict, personnel may be at risk of disease, and even if they are not injured, they may experience sensitisation damage. The majority share the Government’s view of the Defence Responsibility for Health, Environment and Safety. With this I recommend Innst. O. No 94 for 2003-2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower.ana.ud1726e95	Since the representatives of the Progress Party in the Defence Committee are not represented in Odelstinget, I should like briefly to say something about how we will vote on this matter. The Progress Party will oppose the proposals for Sections 4 and 5, on the grounds that we do not want to introduce a Title Order. As regards Section 7, we will vote against that proposal, bearing in mind that we do not wish to introduce a new command system and obligation to order. As regards Section 11, the Progress Party will vote against that proposal, on the basis that we do not wish to introduce a new mandate obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower.ana.ud1726e106	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 572]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower.ana.ud1726e122	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower.ana.ud1726e129	It's good to be back! To the matter: it is often variable how important I think a matter is in Stortinget. The extent of the impression a case makes on me as a representative varies very much as well. This time we have one thing that fortunately affects very few people, and well it is, but nevertheless it is important. It is immeasurably important for those affected. One of the worst things you can be exposed to is to lose a child as a result of a criminal act. In this matter, the Government has put this problem on the agenda and put forward a proposal on which the Committee supports, although the Committee has taken the liberty of fine-tuning on one of the points, but only to make the vote even a little better. As I said, fortunately there are few things where this is a problem. The big business is probably unable to understand the consequences of what is happening in these cases. However, our challenge will be to contribute to the improvement of the everyday life of the people concerned, as far as possible. That's what we're invited to do in this case. If it's going to be like this, if it's going to feel like this later, only time will show. But Odelstinget wants through this proposal to meet them. In concrete terms, it is proposed that parents who lose a child as a result of a criminal act be given the right to an aid lawyer. That is clearly positive. It strengthens the rights of parents. As I was talking about initially, I don't think you can imagine how difficult this must be. It is then possible to have someone who can assist in relation to procedures, rights, obligations and not least just some professionals who can help manage everyday life. I think, as I said before, that this is one of the most difficult things you can be exposed to, and therefore it is very sensible to relieve your parents, as far as possible, in the personal tragedy of losing a child. Furthermore, the prosecution authorities are required to inform their parents that the action has been withdrawn. It's also a reasonable cleanup. You clarify a responsibility, you clarify a responsibility, and you know that your parents will then get information from the right source. In the opinion of the Committee, this is to contribute to a more holistic approach to parents who have been exposed to such action. Furthermore, parents are given access to documents on equal terms with those offended. So it's about information and understanding, and even if it's hard to understand, there's no doubt that access to information is crucial. When you are exposed to losing a child as a result of a criminal act, you will focus a lot on the questions: Why? What happens next? That is why it is important to have a system that takes care of parents in terms of the uncertainties and questions they are asking. So here, too, there is an action that, at the Committee's discretion, is very sensible and undoubtedly a step in the right direction. Furthermore, where the parents explain themselves, the person or others may be required by the court to leave the court. There is no doubt about this either that this has been experienced at times as difficult for the relatives. The Committee agrees with the Government’s assessment that this will be simpler by law and may make it feel more secure and more correct. That is why this is also an action supported by the Committee. The most important thing, however, is to provide an economic basis for parents to be able to participate. Regrettably, in the past, parents have not felt able, for economic reasons, to comply with the case after they have lost a child. It seems unreasonable to the Committee, and the Committee fully supports what is proposed here, that the rights of the remaining parents should now be strengthened. Otherwise, this could have felt like an additional penalty for parents, and that would be directly unreasonable. The further challenge is to continue to work on developing a family care for those who are left and who experience problems that most of us will not experience. This is a challenge that we all have a duty to work on, and I think everyone has a clear ambition to do it. There has been a slightly different approach to it in the Committee, but overall the Committee is behind it. There have been nuances in the view of who has been stressed to do this work, but I assume that the Minister of Justice and the Government will otherwise take the signals from the Committee and will continue this work. In the light of this, I recommend the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower.ana.ud1726e157	Today's proposal will strengthen the rights of those who have lost their children in a criminal offence. The hopelessness and perplexity that many parents feel after losing a child can never be fully understood by those who have not experienced this. Many individuals and organisations have worked to strengthen victims’ rights. Voluntary organisations, such as: Stine's Sofie Foundation, has provided the community with insight into the traumas and dilemmas experienced by many victims after losing a child - also the adversarial feeling that many have known about their bodies during often raging testimonies in lawsuits and subsequent media appeals. I want to pay tribute to the Minister of Justice, who, after many years of efforts both as Minister of Justice and as a magnificence representative and in the work of civil life, has fought a battle for the weak in society. He has put forward a proposal that is now widely supported in the Storting, and he is among those who have fought a year-long battle for the rights of the victims. A review of current legislation is necessary because changes in the personal economy should not be seen as an additional burden on the mental stress caused by a death in children. Parents shall be entitled to financial compensation in the course of their legal proceedings and, at the same time, receive new and explicit criminal rights, such as: the right to an auxiliary lawyer. In addition, the Minister of Justice has chosen, with merit, to set up a wide-ranging sample to look at the position of the offended person. In the future, the practical handling of the offended and relatives in criminal proceedings must also be clarified, including the role of the victims. The reason for giving victims greater rights is that parents who innocently lose their child in criminal acts should have both moral and economic support for society and protection. Now the parents or guardians who follow the main proceedings in criminal matters in these cases will be covered by travel expenses, documented expenses and lost earnings as far as reasonable. In addition, the same parents are granted new criminal rights, such as: the right to appeal to the Advocate General is expressly required to inform the parents that the right of access to the file equivalent to that of the defendant has the possibility for the defendant or others to leave the court when the parents explain themselves, because the appeal would be particularly burdensome when the defendant is present; It is important that the Ministry continues its efforts to develop a care centre and then in cooperation with relevant organisations. The Progress Party wants the Department only to cooperate with the Stine Sofies Foundation. I think it's important that the ministry can connect with other organisations as well. It is the rights and the situation of the victims that are in high places, and then all social forces must be able to contribute to a better protection of the rights of the victims. It shall now also be possible for a child with one parent to receive support and the possibility of appointing a person to be present and to be entitled to the rights of those parents. Finally, I would like to point out that the rules should not be enforced in such a narrow and rigid way that a good and sensible system is curtailed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower.ana.ud1726e191	I also feel the need to state that there is a very serious background to the matter that we now have to deal with, and that we should say something in relation to it. We're going to make decisions in this case that can help make life easier for someone who's got it difficult, maybe a little bit easier. I will also, as the previous speaker, commend the Minister of Justice for his work in this context. I think it's hardly something that for parents is so dramatic, and that intervenes so into their lives, that just losing a child. This applies in general. But that applies -- without any experience from it myself, but as I can put myself into it -- especially for those who lose a child as a result of a criminal offence. Then it is important that there is someone who can help and help people get the necessary help to feel both seen and helped, that they have a feeling that they are not standing alone, neither with grief nor with the many questions in relation to the public, in relation to justice, in relation to a lot of areas that they have not normally been prepared to deal with. Therefore, it is important that we support assistance that provides support and that contributes both to the safety and guidance of parents in such a situation. However, it is also important that children be provided with the necessary assistance when in a situation where they are entitled to an aid lawyer. It is therefore necessary that the sample to be set up by the Ministry of Justice in order to assess the situation of offended persons in criminal proceedings not only looks at it but also assesses issues related to children who have received the right to seek counsel. I myself followed what led to the establishment of the Stine Sofie Foundation in Grimstad, and experienced some of the difficulties and the social commitment expressed around the foundation gradually. I saw how individuals with an involvement--in this case from principals with an involvement sprang out of experienced reality-- became eager to be a help to others who come in a similar situation. The idealism and the will to be able to help people in a similar situation, it is important that we reward. I think it is very right that it has already been expressed, through my contribution, the recognition that the Stine Sofie Foundation really deserves. But there are also others who do a good job. We are also talking about care for relatives in this setting. It's important that you can institutionalize a lot of things, but I also want to give yourself a never so little encouragement -- not some moral index finger -- to see people in our community who need someone to talk to, someone to be close. It is not that we can simply shift responsibility for care to public authorities or to voluntary organisations. As co-workers and individuals in a community, we have a responsibility for each other. It is that we can rectify the situation by taking decisions here in Odelstinget and Stortinget, but I wish we could realize that we can't solve all the problems with decisions, but by taking care of our daily lives, in addition to these decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-10-lower.ana.ud1726e204	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late. The new meeting will be set at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker at the evening meeting is Inga Marte Thorkildsen.
