ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e24	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e27	On behalf of the representative Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to make a proposal to abolish the market regulation of eggs and poultry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e32	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e35	I am delighted to make two private proposals, a proposal to put in place a system of closed reception camps for asylum seekers and a proposal for a ban on the sexual use of animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e40	Olav Gunnar Ballo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e43	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Sigbjørn Molvik, Ola D. Glötvold and myself on the right to acknowledgment of rehabilitation money in addition to 52 weeks following the exceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e65	The Norwegian economy is heading up the wave valley. Economic growth is on the rise, employment is on the rise, and unemployment is on the decline. The economic policy pursued results. The government's draft budget for 2005 builds on the positive developments we are now experiencing. The basis for the welfare country shall be secured in this way. The government prioritises within a responsible framework, so that Norwegian jobs are not threatened. That is why the budget also contains some proposals for tightening up. These will probably meet criticisms from different teams, including in this room. Within a given framework, there will be scope for different priorities. Discussions and negotiations on the budget in the future will bring it to full. But even though we can disagree politically about the arrangement of a budget, and often also the framework, that does not mean that we have a society and an economy characterized by chaos and crisis, as a tabloid debate can often give the impression. We must not forget that Norway is a good country to live in. That's still the way it should be. In some important areas, of course, we face challenges. We need to increase value creation; the whole basis for well-being should be secured in this way. At the same time, we need to ensure that public welfare systems are sustainable in the long term, so that future generations can also benefit from these schemes. Norwegian businesses have been through some tough times. This has also been noted by many individuals: Some have lost their job, others have felt insecure about it. And some jobseekers have not got a job because no one has asked for their jobs. There is waste of human resources when as a society we are unable to harness the individual's abilities and knowledge. Therefore, the main goal of the Government has been to get more people to work. This policy is now producing results. The co-operation administration took over in a situation where there was a problem in the Norwegian economy: The interest rate was 7 p.m., well above the level of our trading partners.The Crown had begun to strengthen itself – and exacerbated the competitive situation of Norwegian jobs. The government’s challenge was to reverse these developments, not by panic-carded individual measures, but by addressing the basic challenges. That is why we have conducted a fiscal policy that has allowed for lower interest rates and interest rates. In this way enterprises have again been able to increase production, increase employment and increase investment in Norway. In a year and a half, interest rates have fallen by more than five percentage points. The big gap between Norwegian and foreign interest rates is gone. This has contributed to the fact that the crown has weakened sharply. The strengthening of the crown that took place in 2002 and that reached the top of several years of cost growth in business has been far reversed. In addition, the large fall in Norwegian interest rates has improved the private economy for many. In particular, they have noticed this with large loans in the start-up phase. The personal economy has been strengthened. It has also provided better well-being. The government has focused on continuing income policy cooperation with the social partners. It is positive that the social partners have contributed to ensuring good economic development. However, although wage growth has decreased in recent years, it remains higher than that of our trading partners. This remains a challenge for Norwegian business. The government has also helped to reduce the cost level of Norwegian enterprises by reducing taxes and taxes, especially on business. The government's economic policy is now producing results. Employment is increasing. After a weak first quarter, it increased by a total of 10,000 people in the second quarter. Several people now report on the labour market, as a result of the optimism of the Norwegian economy. This does not reduce unemployment as quickly as employment increases. However, the freedom is on its way down. On an annual basis, we estimate the current year's release at 4.4 pst. For next year, we're assuming that the unemployment rate is going to be 4.1 pst. Economic growth in Norway is now high. Low interest rates and high income growth stimulate domestic demand. Weaker crowns facilitate the situation of competitive enterprises. In addition, an international recovery contributes to a brightening of the outlook for the export sector. After a growth of only 0.6 pst. Last year, the GDP of mainland Norway is estimated to increase by more than 3 pst. both in the current year and in 2005. This puts us in the top of Europe in terms of economic growth. This development is good. Good economic growth is important for individuals to have a job to do, for more people to invest in the future, and for us to be able to ensure well-being. Price growth is currently very low. This is mainly due to increased domestic competition and cheap imports. Among other things, trade with China and other low-cost countries has increased. The low price growth contributes to real income growth and to increased well-being. In today's situation, it is not a sign of a weak economic development. The decline in the krona and expected good growth in the Norwegian economy in the future is moving towards a gradual rise in price growth. It is important that monetary policy over time contributes to stable price expectations, in line with the inflation target. American President Herbert Hoover said, ironically, once: Blessed are the young, for they must inherit the debt of the nation. Now, fortunately, it's not that the state debt in Norway weighs down. We differ from other countries by having large petroleum resources converted into financial assets in the Petroleum Fund. But at the same time, we build up debt to future generations. So we have to find a good balance between spending some of the money today and at the same time putting something to the future generations. The way we do this is expressed in the so-called rule of action. It gets to boast internationally. I think we can be proud of how we manage our wealth, manage it so that both we who live today, and those who come after us, enjoy this wealth. The rule of action requires us to use the expected real return of the Petroleum Fund over time, set at 4 pst. At the same time, the rule says that we need to take into account the cyclical situation, so that something more can be used in bad times or in the case of a fall in fund capital. The recession and the fall in stock exchange internationally in 2001 and 2002 have contributed to the use of more than a mechanical application of the rule of action. In the 2005 budget, the structural deficit amounts to DKK 66.4 billion. That's $24 billion more than a 4pst return of the fund. The use of oil revenues is slightly lower than in the current year. The estimates for the capital of the Petroleum Fund indicate that we will reach the 4 pst. track only towards the end of this decade. Consequently, there is no room for a significant increase in the use of oil revenues in the coming years. I think it is important to point out all the opportunities we have as a nation to be a good country to live in – also in the future. With about 1000 billion “on book”, i.e. in the Petroleum Fund, and many billion in the North Sea, we have a better starting point than most other countries. Nevertheless, our most important resource, also measured financially, is our labour force. That's why it's so important that we make good use of it. It is a fact that Norwegian labour force is relatively expensive. In return, it is competent. We have one of the highest levels of education in the world. In Norway, one out of three persons of working age has higher education, well above average in OECD countries. Moreover, the share of higher education is increasing. A number of studies suggest a ‘win-win’ effect at a higher level of education: the more we learn in the formal education system, the more we become able to learn in the workplace. It promises well for the ability to be innovative and to cope with the transformations that are a natural part of economic and industrial development. However, it is not the case that all Norwegian labour force is expensive in relation to our competitor country. In fact, studies show that we have among the cheapest knowledge workers in Norway. This gives us a good starting point for competing in the global knowledge economy. It is precisely by investing in knowledge that we are laying the foundation for the business life of the future. Norway stands out internationally in that we have very high levels of professional participation. One important explanation is that Norwegian women are more active in their professional life than women in many other countries. The fact that we have managed to keep unemployment relatively low also helps more people to see the possibility of getting a job and therefore choose to go out in the labour market. Norwegian labour force is also productive. According to OECD figures, gross domestic product was per capita. hours worked in Norway over 30 pst. higher than in the United States in 2001. Our Nordic neighbouring country Sweden and Finland were about 15 pst. in the United States. If we keep the oil sector out, the value creation would be per. hours worked in Norway still higher than in the United States. We have to remember all these positive aspects of Norwegian society and working life when, otherwise, in political debates, we are reminded of everything that works less well. In order to ensure the well-being of tomorrow, we need to be willing to carry out the necessary reforms in today's arrangements. The challenge in Norway is to get more people working. We have, as mentioned, high levels of participation in employment, but at the same time we have very many people in pre-employment who, for some reason, are out of the labour market for a short or longer time. Nearly one in five working-age Nordics today have social security as their main source of living. I'm sure that our welfare system and our working life can make it easier for some of these to work. There is a great responsibility on us as politicians, employers and individual employees to do something about this. Public welfare schemes must be designed to allow individuals to return to work whenever possible. The government has made significant changes to schemes such as unpaid pay and day-to-day pay for the unemployed. These changes will help to stimulate work. However, the effects of the changes will only be seen when the new schemes have worked for a few years. It is necessary to reform our pension system. During the harvest session, the government intends to provide a forecast of growth in this respect. The aim of the reform is to ensure that young people today and later generations feel secure about their pensions, for their safety. Today's system is unsustainable. This has been fully documented by the Pension Commission. While in 1967 there were four workers for each pensioner, in 2050 there would be fewer than two behind each pensioner. Between 1972 and 2001, the number of persons employed increased by about 650 000, while the number of age pensioners increased by about 280 000. From now on to 2050, the ratio is going to be the opposite. It is important that we address these challenges now. Some think we can borrow back because the economy is currently going well and the oil price is high. I want to warn against such a policy. It's gambling with future pensions. We must, as politicians today, pursue a policy that makes the next generation have a good foundation. In the perspective statement, which we will present later in the autumn, we will discuss these prospects in depth. If we do not reform gradually now, in the future even bitterer medicine will be needed, in the form of painful cuts in expenditure and increased taxes and taxes. It is not a better option when welfare and value creation are most important. We can only afford good welfare for everyone in our society if we make it possible to create and secure jobs in the country. Therefore, welfare can never be set up against value creation — one presupposes the other. Norwegian enterprises are increasingly facing tougher competition, both nationally and internationally. That's good because it gives us as consumers better quality and lower price. Norwegian enterprises must be able to address the opportunities and challenges posed by globalisation. This is how we facilitate jobs in the future as well. No government has ever done as much to improve the business environment as this. The future-oriented business policy of the CSR on research and knowledge facilitates innovation in business and contributes to improving competitiveness. We have now implemented reliefs in taxes and taxes of something over 19 billion kroner. A large part of these reliefs have directly benefited business. The investment tax is gone, the anti-investment dividend tax has been removed and a separate deduction has been introduced for expenditure on research and development, known as TAX FUNN. The government presented a tax reform earlier this year. It will provide a fairer and more competitive tax system. The reform will reduce the tax on ordinary employees and make it more advantageous to invest and invest in Norway. The treatment of the tax reform by the Storting before the summer provided a basis for the Government to move forward with the reform. It will be phased in gradually over three years, and we will begin in the 2005 budget. A generally accepted tax system presupposes that labour income is treated in a non-discriminatory manner, regardless of whether it is earned by an employee, an active owner or a self-employed person. It is unfair when two persons are taxed quite differently for the same amount of work. The sharing model, which would ensure non-discrimination, no longer works as intended. It has become too easy, and it has become too profitable, to camouflage real labour income as dividends. This weakens people's general trust in the tax system. In order to remove the sharing model, the difference in the marginal tax on labour income and share income needs to be greatly reduced. Therefore, the tax on high return on shares must be increased and the tax on labour income reduced. In order to improve predictability for business, legislative proposals on the shareholder model and the winding-up of the divisional model are also being promoted, but with effect from 2006. The reform will also ensure that our tax rules comply with the EEA obligations. The uncertainty surrounding today’s system will now disappear. This is absolutely necessary. By gradually removing taxes on wealth, introducing tax on dividends with protection and reducing taxes on labour, we bring Norway into line with most countries in Europe. The government proposes new tax reliefs for next year that net amount of NOK 3.3 billion incurred. Taking into account the current year’s budget decisions only next year, the total net tax relief in 2005 amounts to DKK 1.65 billion in the book. So we're going to reduce the top rate and raise the entry point to 381,000 kroner. In 2005, there will be 235 000 fewer taxpayers paying top taxes compared to 2001. We also propose to increase the minimum deduction of employee income by increasing the rate from 24 pst. until 27 pst. and the ceiling is increased to NOK 56 000. The reliefs in top taxes and the increase in the minimum deduction amount to a total of DKK 7.7 billion and ensure that all income groups receive lower taxes on labour. Overall, 1.1 million people receive a reduced marginal wage tax as proposed by the Government. This is important to stimulate work. The government also starts the slowing down of the taxes on wealth. This is done by introducing a common valuation rate for all shares, including listed shares, and units in unit trusts. We are also proposing to increase the point of entry for the property tax. The advantage of owner-occupied housing is experienced by many who are very unfair, and I understand that. The conclusion is that the Government proposes to remove this tax entirely in line with the Government's Declaration of Accession and political document. From 2002 onwards, the government introduced a separate deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations. This is important to strengthen the economy of the many volunteers who do important work throughout the country. Today the limit of deduction is NOK 6000. Next year, we're proposing to raise the limit to $12,000. In order to simplify the tax system, the Government proposes some individual changes that together will reduce the amount of around NOK 1 billion. We propose, among other things: tightening the daily working travel allowance, abolishing the allowance for commuters and the tax exemption for the free-of-charge of employees on the base. This means that these workers are brought into line with the tax system for other workers with an equivalent free-of-charge diet. These changes will contribute to a greater degree of fiscal non-discrimination for persons with equal income. The government's priority is to reduce the tax on work. We are proposing a shift in taxation from work to consumption by increasing VAT rates by one percentage point. This generates an increase in revenues of over NOK 6 billion. With these proposals, total tax reliefs during the down payment period will amount to NOK 21.6 billion. The government will improve the Norwegian welfare community. Public welfare needs to be renewed in order to become more targeted and tailored to individual needs. Municipalities are responsible for many important welfare services. Therefore, the government is strengthening the municipal economy by nearly NOK 2.75 billion. This is more than what was announced in the municipal bill in ours. The growth of the free revenues is DKK 1 billion. Among the earmarked appropriations are the largest contributions to kindergartens, psychiatry and increased hours in primary school. The main objectives of the government's kindergarten policy are a place for everyone who wants it. We will therefore give priority to the families still in line in the budget by investing in the construction of new kindergartens. In addition to a significant increase in capacity, the government grant to private kindergartens is strengthened. In this way, we will achieve a greater degree of equal treatment. The appropriations for the kindergarten sector will increase by DKK 1.4 billion in 2005. As a result, the sector’s appropriations have increased by nearly DKK 7 billion in nominal terms from 2002 to 2005. Higher expansion and lower parental pay have led to a significant increase in demand for full-day kindergartens and a decrease in part-time places. So far, this means that capacity growth has largely agreed to meet increased demand for full-time facilities from families with children who already had a part-time offer for their children. As a result, the queue has not been significantly shorter either. The Government therefore considers that it is not realistic to achieve the objective of ‘almost full coverage of needs’ in 2005, as envisaged by the kindergarten agreement for the introduction of step 2 at the maximum price. Therefore, in line with the kindergarten agreement, priority is given to measures to increase the provision of places rather than to a further reduction in prices in the next year’s budget. The harvest's TV action "Heart Room" will remind us of the sad aspects of our own society. Fortunately, in recent years, mental health has become more transparent in Norway, but we have still done a lot of work. This applies both to the way in which some of us and the public encounter these problems. In the draft budget, the Government continues to escalate the psychiatry. The appropriations for increased operations are increasing by 850 million. kr. Local authorities are given greater priority in terms of operational resources in the 2005 budget than in the past. In addition, more than 700 million are proposed. kr for investments related to the plan. In view of the specific challenges faced by major cities in this area, it is proposed to set up its own large-scale urban development effort. Some of those who need our help most do not get a good enough offer. The renewal of the welfare society therefore requires that we do more than extend existing universal arrangements. Public welfare needs more help to the individual in his or her specific situation. As the first government, the government has therefore presented an action plan against poverty. Our main strategy to prevent and help people out of poverty is to enable more people to support themselves through their own work. That is why we continue to take measures to help more people return to work. At the same time, we target the welfare systems, so that services and transfers together contribute to the individual's getting into work. Several measures in the plan shall prevent social exclusion, in particular among children and young people. They are specifically targeted at the heaviest drug users. Following the accession of the PCF, a total of more than DKK 3 billion has been allocated to additional actions in this field for the years 2002–2005. As a rich nation, we have a separate obligation to help the poorest in the world. Therefore, the Government continues to step up international assistance. Next year, the appropriations will be increased by DKK 1.6 billion. The aid will thus be 0,95 pst. of estimated gross national income next year, up from 0,89 pst. in 2001. The development of the share of GNI in the aid budget must be seen in the light of the fact that the estimated national income has been greatly adjusted as a result of higher oil prices than previously foreseen. The government has prioritised the educational effort in our aid work. Only since 2002 have we doubled the appropriations for educational purposes. Among the most central areas are the further fight against HIV/AIDS, the work for good governance in developing countries and the fight against corruption in our countries of cooperation. In order for Norway to continue to be a rich country, we need to lay the foundation for future value creation now. We must make it possible for businesses and people with in-progress and creativity to develop profitable business. Business policy is not just about facilitating the job creation that already exists. We must also have a policy for the jobs to be created tomorrow. Then we have to be better at getting the good ideas out of the way, because more people dare to take the chance and bet on new projects. This has to be done both in existing enterprises and by several start-ups. I visited earlier this year Alnæs Marine Oils, as it is called. The farm is located in Kristiansund. Based on the large marine fishing resources, this company uses highly skilled labour, research and development to develop Omega-3 and fish oils to the world market. Over the 40 years it has existed, the company has evolved from being a trading company to becoming a fish oil refinery with leading technology and expertise. With the support of the SkattenFUNN scheme and the improvements in the general framework conditions for the export industry, this company has a good basis for investing and creating new jobs. Research and development is one of the main sources of innovation and long-term growth. From 2001 to 2005, public appropriations have increased by nearly 30pst. The government is now proposing to increase the Research Fund, so that the total capital of the fund will be NOK 36 billion. When the government took over in 2001, the fund was NOK 10 billion. In addition to increasing public research appropriations, the Government has stimulated private research efforts. We have introduced the TAX FUNN, which provides companies with tax credits for research and development expenditure. This scheme has become very popular. To date, almost 3 500 projects have been approved. For next year alone, the Tax Fund will provide a book tax bill of DKR 1.8 billion. The basis for a knowledge nation is already the first day of school for the very smallest children. They come to school with different assumptions and with great expectations of learning. The aim is a school that opens up greater diversity, with a focus on knowledge and quality. Only in this way will we enable the individual to meet later school and work in a good way. As part of the government's school effort, the government proposes to set an estimated 700 million. kr to launch the ‘Culture for learning’ reform. Most of the funding is given priority to development of skills, which will provide the individual teacher and each school with the professional promise necessary to increase quality. In addition, the development of new curricula is a key element of the reform. Last, but not least, we're using funds to further expand primary school hours. Thus, during this ageing period, there have been 12 more weekly hours in primary school. One of the central tasks of the State is to ensure the security of its citizens. In fact, the draft budget strengthens the police by 250 million. kr. It will provide better opportunities for the police to combat organised crime, deal with acute situations and, above all, take preventive action. The government also strengthens public transport. During the ageing period, this area has been strengthened by around NOK 1.7 billion. The largest increase in appropriations has taken place for investments in the railways and for the purchase of passenger transport by train. In particular, we have invested in urban areas, in order to reduce road congestion and improve the environment. Environmental resources are an important part of national wealth. The government's offensive environmental policy will continue next year. Among other things, it is added. up to a greenhouse gas allowance system. It should be in place from next year. 2005 is the year of Outdoor Life. We are proposing increased allocations for outdoor purposes, which will help to secure new open-air areas. Cultural memory protection, in the form of maintenance and maintenance of important cultural memories, is strengthened. Enova's revenues are increased by 90 million. kr to increase the investment in alternative energy sources. These priorities are carried out within a responsible framework. In order to build up fiscal policy under the positive development of the Norwegian economy, some constraints are also necessary, without compromising the safety and quality of the public welfare service. The government proposes to increase the proportion of the excess for health costs. At the same time, we improve the protection for those with high costs. When the free card system was introduced in 1984, the idea was to cover those who had high health costs. 140000 people were given a free card at the time. About 1 million people get it today. This is an example of how a good welfare system, which would help them with great needs, has evolved to include more and more of us. The limit for getting a free card is today set at NOK 1550. This ceiling is now proposed by the Government to increase to NOK 2500 for all except minimum pensioners. At such a limit, we assume that 750,000 people will still be issued a free card. In 2003, a self-employment allowance 2 was introduced for some health expenditures to cover them with high expenditures. Now this limit of $4500 is for a free card. We propose to make the scheme more favourable by reducing the limit to NOK 3500. Sick leave has increased every year from 1994 to 2003. This is a major problem, both for businesses and for the control of public expenditure. Therefore, an intentional agreement was signed in 2001 to reduce sick leave. However, instead of falling down, sick leave has increased. If the IA agreement had given the expected results, we would have had NOK 5 billion more for actions over the State budget. We would have had about 8.5 million fewer sick leave days in the workplace only during the year. It is worrying that, above all, long-term absences have increased in recent years. Today, employers have no direct costs for sick leave beyond 16 days. The government is therefore now proposing, in order to reduce long-term sick leave, that companies be given financial co-responsibility of 10 p.m. for sick leave extending beyond the employer’s period. At the same time, the number of days of absence for which employers have full financial responsibility is reduced from 16 days, as today, to 14 days. The financial co-responsibility of employers for the entire sick leave is in line with the recommendations of the so-called Sandman Committee of 2000. The Government proposes that the new rules apply to new cases from 1 April 2005. The Norwegian economy has been freshly informed after a few years of low growth, worsening competitiveness and increasing unemployment. Optimism is now back. Employment is increasing, unemployment is falling, and businesses are reporting good prospects for the future. This provides security for many people's everyday lives, and thus good well-being. In addition, good economic growth and profitable enterprises are essential grounds for public welfare. The government's budget proposal renews well-being and provides the basis for increased value creation. On this basis, I invite Stortinget to cooperate on the state budget for 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e256	The President will propose that a comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group, in accordance with Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure. The President will then propose to depart from Paragraph 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure in such a way as to give rise to a comment by the Minister of Finance on each post from the opposition party and then to a final comment by the representative of the opposition party up to 2 minutes each. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance should be opened up to 3 minutes at the end of the debate. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e265	We have today been presented with a budget with a clear Right profile. Some get better, while others get worse next year, i.e. tax relief to those who need it the least, and cut welfare services for the others. The budget will not reduce differences and poverty in Norway. Difference Norway has become clearer during the Bondevik administration, several outside. Nor will the budget reduce the cuts in the school and welfare provision of municipalities. The economy of the municipalities has become disastrously worse during this government. What does this development tell us? Yes, the government is leading a policy in the wrong direction in several areas. The government is good at taking credit for the positive developments, such as: interest rate. Then they also have to take responsibility for the negative trends we now see, such as high unemployment, more social welfare recipients, poorer hospital economy and cut welfare services. The government has also much left before they have fulfilled their promises in the Sem-Declaration. There will continue to be more than 20 billion SEK before important Sem-lifts are fulfilled. The government has broken a new record of promises. So far, the government has given about $20 billion in tax reliefs, but to those who have the most from before. For the next year, the Government proposes to give about DKK 3 billion in new reliefs – mostly to those with high incomes and large assets in shares and dwellings. The government will reduce top taxes, property taxes and housing taxes next year. At the same time, the Government will tighten many deduction schemes for ordinary people. The 10 pst. The richest will receive tax relief of about NOK 5000, while the 10 pst. with the lowest income, will have tax incentives of about DKK 200. This is very unsocial. Fortunately, the government does not have the power to meet its tax commitments of 21 billion dollars in 2005. I think it's positive, because it would lead to further cuts in the welfare systems of our society. The Labour Party is also up to 16 billion kroner in new tax reliefs that the Government will provide until 2007. Unemployment has stuck to a high level. More than 100000 people are outside the ordinary labour market today. The current government has not done enough to combat unemployment, especially for the long-term unemployed. The government claims that tax relief will reduce the unemployment rate. The status so far is that unemployment has increased from 60,000 to 100,000 people under this government. At all intersections, the Labour Party has proposed to strengthen innovation, innovation and research, to increase the number of action sites and to strengthen business and district development in order to reduce unemployment. Despite the fact that the Government sets a new Norwegian record in the use of oil money, school, well-being, care and care are not given high enough priority. The government is unable to follow up the nursery contract. Daily, there are surveys of municipalities that need to cut welfare services for their inhabitants, whether they are leisure clubs or elderly centres that need to be closed down. This is serious. This is a consequence of the government's savings knife to Kommune-Norway. The right central says: more for the money. Right-wing rapporteurs say: more money. I agree with the rapporteurs, because if we are to create the world's best common school and safe care for the elderly, the municipalities must be given more resources – DKK 1 billion in free income for the municipalities is not enough. There are also some positive features in the Government's draft budget. An increase in the loan scheme for the shipbuilding industry is good. By the way, it's a follow-up to the Workers' Party's earlier proposals. There's also a certain increase to the police and the judiciary. We're going to follow that up. But one thing is certain, the budget presented is not adopted without changes. What changes are being adopted we do not know today. But it is clear from the Labour Party that in our alternative budget we will propose continued strong efforts to combat unemployment, more to school and education, increased efforts in terms of health, care and well-being, and to correct the social injustices proposed in the draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e280	I was very fond of parts of the ending, where you could at least know that there were a couple of proms of the used hundreds of billions that were positive. I'm very happy about that. However, I react a little when you're so bastful and say that the government doesn't reduce poverty. We have documented that there have been systematic use of new billions to increase efforts to reduce poverty through each year's budget, and I think this is actually used targeted in ways that work. With regard to what the representative Nordtun says that it is not money, I have not registered that the Workers' Party has actually made increased promises in this area, but in very many other areas. As regards the time off, I have to say that the time off in Norway has not been fixed at a high level. Unemployment in Norway is lower than in most countries and is declining. I want to draw attention to the situation in Sweden, where there is economic growth, but it is not able to reduce unemployment and where it is at a higher level than in Norway. So in every country we can compare ourselves to, even socially democratically overthrown countries – yes, where they have majority rule – they don't have to bring unemployment down. Rather, on the contrary: it increases, industrial relocation increases, and there are sad things in the countries we can study. I thank you for all the good advice on a whole budget. I am not quite sure if I got the bottom line of the post that was kept, but we look forward to an interesting treatment period in Stortinget. I might include a little quote from a former Finance Minister, Per Kleppe, who, not many days ago, on 30 September, wrote the following about taxes in the Newspaper: ‘In an open international economy, it may also be necessary for Norway to ensure a good distribution policy without the use of property taxes.’ Welcome, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e296	The answer from the Minister of Finance may have been as expected, I have to say, if you look at the choices you've made here. We haven't had the budget for that long, but the tables that are set up there show what choices the government has made. They have made one main choice: more to those who have the most from before. We look at the tax distribution tables. And there are questions about values. Obviously, this right-wing government chooses a society where they deprioritize school, deprioritises the distribution in relation to the elderly, deprioritises health services, etc., when we see where the restrictions have come from. There are now considerable restrictions for commuters, for example, in relation to day-to-day work trips, dietary allowances, etc. Yes, who is hit by the increase in the excess, which is proposed here increased from $1,500 to $2,500? Well, there are just groups of people who need our help and our distribution support. What does this show about unemployment? Well, just that it's stuck. What do the tables show about who receives social protection and about increases on that line in Norway? It doesn't seem that this development worries the current government. It concerns us from the Workers' Party. So we're going to add up to another distribution policy. It's not tax relief for those who need it the least, but a better distribution for those who sit at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e303	I think we should be able to see that the Labour Party representative had probably written his statement before he had seen the State budget. The reality is that there are bright prospects for the Norwegian economy. Economic growth is on the rise. Optimism is back in business. New jobs are created and well-being renewed and safeguarded. The draft budget for 2005 will reinforce positive developments. Economic policy gains recognition far beyond the borders of Norway. This is due not only to Norway being given the world's best country to live today, but also to our ability to put some of our wealth aside for tomorrow's pensioners and future generations. The government's draft budget is based on a policy that has shown that it is working. When the government joined, unemployment was rising and the economy was failing. High wage increases, high interest rates and high-budget jobs out of the country. The government has been given the order in the Norwegian economy. The interest rate is historically low, the exchange rate is competitive, and income policy cooperation has contributed to moderate wage settlement. Together with tax relief and a commitment to research and development, there has been a return to business optimism. A budget is often measured in relation to the current day. A government has to think longer. If we are to secure well-being in the longer term, we need to provide a basis for increased value creation. That's why we're lowering taxes and taxes. That is why we are paying more attention to infrastructure. Therefore, research and development and innovation efforts are increasing. But perhaps even more important and even more fundamental: we're upgrading the school for our children, including our children. through several hours of instruction. The right went to the elections with a lower tax promise, and we lower the taxes. In 2005, the housing tax disappears. We have previously removed the fare and the investment fee. In 2005, 250,000 fewer top taxes will be paid, compared with 2001. Until next year, 1.1 million taxpayers will pay lower marginal taxes and the minimum deduction will be greatly increased. With new tax relief, the Government is taking the first step to follow up the tax reform. The reform strengthens value creation and thus also guarantees the basis for well-being. All income groups receive lower taxes. It becomes more profitable to work, by shifting the tax from tax on labour to tax on consumption. Each harvest a storm is announced before the budget negotiations begin. Every year we have achieved a good result. I would like to pay tribute to both the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, who have shown their willingness to cooperate in various crossroads. I don't think this harvest will be less demanding. This fall, too, we depend on one of the Biggest parties wanting to join in and label the budget line. It requires willingness to take responsibility, but responsibility also gives influence. The government parties will turn to the Progress Party first. I have recorded that there have been positive cooperation signals from the Progress Party, and I take that as a good sign. For the government parties, it is crucial that we be able to take care of and strengthen the positive development of the Norwegian economy. By increasing value creation, we will secure well-being. That is why we invite cooperation on an economic policy that helps to secure and create jobs. After the government has now submitted the proposal to the government budget, the responsibility lies for finding solutions that can obtain a majority, here in the Stortinget. In autumn 2002, budgetary negotiations took five weeks. Last fall they took five days. The difference was that last year we waited with negotiations until the central opposition parties had presented their alternative budget. It gave clearer and more transparent negotiations. Last year's experience was very good. The government parties will therefore also wait this year with a concrete invitation to negotiations after the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have presented their alternative budget. Finally, I would like to join the Minister of Finance's invitation to cooperate on the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e322	The Progress Party will not use this opportunity to blackmail the budget, because there is some good in this budget. But there's also reason for some concerns, and I can't let go of the things that go in the wrong direction with our eyes. Firstly, this budget is passive in terms of the major challenges facing this country, not least in terms of health and care for the elderly, and in terms of combating crime. Here the government is unfortunately too passive, here it lacks sufficient bet. There are at least two areas in which the Progress Party will put a lot of effort into improving. Assistance is the budget winner – there is no doubt about it. But it doesn't make it any better for everyone who's having a hard time at home, and I think it's a little amazing that the government tends to forget them in its eagerness to achieve its objectives on the aid side. It is a fact that this budget provides a real tax boost through the increase in VAT for those who are the poorest in this country. They have no pleasure in the proposed tax reliefs, nor in the increase in the minimum deduction. This makes parts of the tax profile very unsocial, and it is going to be very difficult for the Progress Party to agree. Actually, with the economic situation this country is in, we should have gone the other way and reduced VAT. De facto, through this budget, it is now becoming cheaper to make money and considerably more expensive to spend money. That's why most people should now start holding on to the wallet, because everything is going to be more expensive through this VAT tightening. There are a lot of people who tolerate it, but there are also a lot of people who can't stand it, and that's what makes the budget very unsocial. Road construction is hardly mentioned either by the Minister of Finance or in the budget, as we have read. And that makes us further involved in the necessary infrastructure upgrade for Norway. It is alarming that once again we come to the agreed targets in the national transport plan that this room has adopted, once again we are in arrears, and once again we are helping to weaken the competitiveness of our own businesses by not paying enough on road construction. It is true that the government is betting more on the municipalities. But there's reason to draw attention to the fact that there's never such a small amount of numeration here, because you don't mention the billion that the municipalities are missing through the tax failure of the current year. It will be absolutely necessary to achieve the objectives set out in the municipal bill as treated by Stortinget, at least to compensate for the tax losses that municipalities now experience, which go beyond the commitment to care for the elderly, which goes beyond many important tasks that municipalities face. There are threats of flagging out 80 000 jobs in the coming years, and we know that many of our companies are struggling with tough competition conditions. This may not be the time to impose new burdens on businesses, although the high level of sick leave also worries the Progress Party. We need to look at how we can combat sick leave without increasing the financial burden on our businesses. It is also known that from the new year Sweden will provide additional relief in alcohol taxes. That's why it's worrying that we're actually going to get a boost on these through the VAT increase, if the government gets what it wants. Once again, we see a sharpening of prowess. The only thing that's almost certain every time the budget comes, is that the government is increasing the propensity. Of course, it's positive to reduce roof 2, but it's still unsocial, because you add an additional tax on disease. Actually, we're paying taxes on the tax bill just to get health services financed, but here you're increasing the burden by increasing the percentages. It is positive that the Government rates on business. New seed funds, more investment in R & D and innovation – yes, that's good. And it is positive to give tax relief through the minimum deduction, and – not least – to propose to remove the house tax. There are many additions that go in the right direction, but the biggest problem with the eye of the Progress Party is the unsocial profile that primarily affects those who have the most difficulty in our society. The state is richer than ever. It cannot be expressed unilaterally by sending even more money out of the country without being able to solve the main challenges we face here at home. We must be able to show the Norwegian people that the wealth that comes up from the oil in the North Sea is also manifesting itself by betting on the right and important areas. We accept the co-operation invitation, but I don't think it's going to be easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e352	I thank you for the constructive tone and also for the invitation to cooperation. Nor do I have any illusion that things are looking for a certain seagoing time in Stortinget, this also applies to budgets. But I am glad that the representative, Siv Jensen, did not repeat his pessimistic forecasts for the Norwegian economy at least, because when I presented the budget for the current year, the representative said that she did not believe in any growth forecasts, and she even said far into the current year that it is barely going around the Norwegian economy. Now we can really say that it's going around, and that we have something more money at our disposal. In our opinion, we have used them in a sensible way, as both welfare and value creation rates. I'm actually a little proud that we're one of the countries in the world that contribute most to international aid. In fact, I think it would be good for the oil country of Norway to send something back to those who pay a large part of the high oil price bill, and Norwegian aid has been stepped up over several years with quite broad political support. There should be no contradiction to doing anything about the Norwegian welfare system as well. We have a safety net that we recognize is not working well enough in relation to all groups. The combination of drug abuse and social exclusion creates poverty problems that we take seriously. But I haven't exactly noticed any deafening support from the Progress Party especially on this initiative on the drug field, for example. But if they're now invading broad stakes on our entire poverty package, I'm very happy about that. I don't know if I'm going to add up to an alcohol policy discussion as a continuation of this, but just say that I perceived the Swedish Prime Minister so that what he expressed on the radio today was that the Swedish parliament can reduce taxes whenever it wants. I'm aware of that. However, the Swedish government also has an assessment of whether all the pressure from the EU system to reduce alcohol taxes makes sense, and has taken a small time-out, a small time-out, compared to its further development. When it comes to sick leave, I think it's important to do something other than look at it. Something has to be done about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e368	I must first refute the claim that the Progress Party does not bet on Rustic Care. If someone has been a propellant in this room to give dignity back to many of the country's drug addicts, it's just the Progress Party. So that's the statement I want to strongly refute. It is nice that the Minister of Finance is proud of the efforts made by the Government. I hope that a possible successful outcome of the negotiations will also make us proud that we have been corrected for the poor areas of activity with which we are still struggling. For us, it will be absolutely essential to be able to get into port that the social profile of this budget improves. It will be absolutely essential for us, not least that the government parties will have respect for the essential requirements of the Progress Party. For us, it is essential that we get our hospitals on care, so that they can treat more patients and spend less time on internal organisation. It also does something for the entire working life that people do not go ill as long as they do today, because you have to wait for treatment. So health will be crucial for us. And as much time as the government has spent talking about the need to fight crime, it must soon begin to become visible in the form of a willingness to invest enough funds to do so. It's not free, we've seen enough examples of this lately, and then we have to be willing to spend the money that's going to give people a safe and secure everyday life. That's what the Progress Party will put a lot of effort into doing. That being said, it becomes a little strange with all the time the Minister of Finance has spent bullying the Progress Party because we have been critical of the rule of action for the use of oil money. So once again, the government spends far more money than the rule of action requires, and that means it's actually dead and buried. That's good, because it's not a good measure of how we're going to manage the money in the Norwegian economy. I don't understand why it would be better to invest all our wealth abroad and feed Norwegian business and Norwegian citizens when it would be wise to invest in road construction and in a number of other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e377	Summarized in one word, this budget can be called non-social. This is actually classic right-hand policy, with redistribution from those who have little, to those who have more. What's perhaps the most disturbing, is that it'll intensify Difference Norway, a Difference Norway that we've seen develop over many years, a Difference Norway that helps those who have the most, get more, and those who have the least, actually have less. The Prime Minister has a commendable commitment to the poor, but it does not help with targeted measures for the poorest as long as general arrangements are put in place so that the big one actually loses out on it. If you look at the tables of private consumption and public consumption, you'll see this contrast in particular. Until next year private consumption will again increase much more, over twice as much as public consumption. That's what we see. This is what the ordinary citizen in Norway sees as the decay of the public welfare system is high, while private consumption explodes. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is The question is whether we want budgets that reinforce a development where most of us get even better, can buy even more things, or whether we want the common consumption to be stronger, more money for what we think is important, for the care of the elderly, the kindergartens, the schools, for the community that we want to build. This paradox becomes even more luminous when you can experience ‘all hour high’ at Oslo Børs, and then we experience ‘all hour high’ for debt in Norwegian municipalities. For Norwegian municipalities, the major loser is in this budget. I have a great deal of understanding for the many Right-Rapporteurs around the country who sound like SVs, who wonder why it should be so that their own government is not able to give them money to fulfill even the most elementary tasks. The truth is, over several years, municipalities have lost tax revenue. You're going to get $1 billion in extra, so-called free income, but at the same time it only compensates for half of the tax loss. In addition, the government says it's going to bet on school, on psychiatry. Very good, much of this is positive. But where is it from this money when the municipalities initially have a debt burden and an operating deficit that makes this money impossible at all to go to what they were originally meant to be used for? I encourage the municipalities of the country, but not least the inhabitants of the country, to a municipal uprising. This country is rich enough, this state is rich enough, to spend money in a way that makes us strengthen well-being, build our schools and kindergartens further out and not depress them, as we now experience. I hope that the right-wing rapporteurs of the country will take a torch to the Stortinget. I hope that all the country's rapporteurs come and say that we do not actually find ourselves in this. Because we can afford to expand well-being. We don't have to build it further down. Where we might see the classic Right-Clone the most, is in the question of tax. We need more fairer taxes in Norway, not more unfair taxes. If you go into these tax tables, which are interesting, at the back, from approximately. page 100 and beyond, you'll see that the distribution through the government's tax is much more unsocial than what you'd like to acknowledge. Those who make more than 750,000 dollars will get almost 20 000 dollars in tax relief. Those who serve least do not receive tax relief at all. That is the reality of the overall tax regime of the Government. But not only that, 1 million of the country's social security and pensioners don't get tax relief at all, simply because it doesn't want the government to give them. In addition, we find that they get over NOK 1 billion in incremental dividends. So it's legitimate to tax disease, but it's not legitimate to tax wealth. This government is running a reverse distribution policy, which is taxing those who are sick, but not those who have a lot of money. Unfortunately, the government is not following up on the nursery arrangement. We have now understood that through various leakages. It is sad that we have a government that does not follow up written agreements in Stortinget. The nursery contract requires a step 2 when the extension has reached a certain level. We don't know that today. Having a government that does not recognise and agree to written agreements in Stortinget is very worrying when you make these kind of agreements, which means the government feels free to break at any time. I must also say that I think it is constructive to note that this government also violates the agreement with the social partners, the IA agreement; they now want to tighten the health pay system for employers. The point of concluding agreements, whether with parties in the Storting or with social partners, is that the agreements should be followed. Having an untrustworthy government is very serious. Agreements are in place to be followed when they are concluded. Now I see the president getting up, so then I might not have the word anymore, but summed up in one word: from SV's point of view, this is a very unsocial budget, it goes in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e397	Let me just say that when you hear Djupedal, you get the impression of a Norwegian welfare state in total decay in one of the world's poorest countries. That can't be a correct description. I'm not going to do it on my own, but the United Nations has chosen Norway as the best country to live in, according to a series of indicators that are not economic. So that kind of black paint I think you're going to try to avoid in politics. It is clear that there will be disagreements in priority between the SV and the government parties. When Djupedal says that private consumption is increasing more than public consumption, there is a description of a private wealth of quite a few people – not just a few but a large majority – who also contribute to creating jobs. The main driver of job creation in the current year is private consumption. But the paradox in what Djupedal says is that he's calling for more private consumption. If you increase public transfers to the private sector, as Djupedal advocates, private consumption will necessarily be greater than if you don't increase transfers to the private sector. So it's about keeping a little bit of order on its system. With regard to taxes, I have to say that I miss an alternative to a tax reform that we propose, from SV and for that matter also from the Workers' Party. The reform we are now implementing implies that those with high capital incomes, incomes that go to private consumption, will pay more taxes. Those currently highest in all grades of income in Norway are not employees. There are people with more or less capital income, who can in part also take it into private consumption at a lower tax rate than ordinary employees. It's going to end. I had a little hope that SV would see the point in it, that wealth cannot only be read from those who are ordinary employees. There will be greater fairness with a new tax system and a better distribution effect with a new tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e409	Let me just bring forward one of the tax changes that the Government makes, which it is easy to overlook, but which have great consequences. So you're going to go in for the valuation of shares from 100 pst. to 65 pst. That means half a billion dollars in tax relief for those in Norway who own shares. A lot of people own shares. Some people own one or two shares that they have inherited from grandmother, and some people own a little more, but the main weight of Norwegian shareholders is those who initially have the greatest wealth and income. This means that almost all of this half a billion that the Government is now issuing will benefit the richest people in Norway. It is therefore these distribution tables, which are exemplary in the budget, which also show that the most deprived are the ones. This is not in any proportion, because those who have the least get nothing. Not only do they get nothing, they even have to pay higher costs when going to a doctor or using different hospital services. That's what's at the heart of Right's policy: that you want to stimulate those who have the most, and take away those who have the least. I find it discouraging and disappointing that this government is doing so, because I have a sincere belief that the Christian People's Party really means something else. Their social dispositions I have great faith in, and I greatly share their social conscience as well. But what the Government is presenting now only reinforces the differences we have unfortunately had over the years. Differences are not just about earmarked or targeted actions for the poorest. It's about the big universal grips on how our society is going to evolve in the future, and there's a big picture of private consumption against public consumption. On the SV side, we are very clear that this rich country now needs to use more resources at the expense of private consumption to renovate the community, renovate our schools, refurbish kindergartens, care for the elderly, secure pensions and secure the future of value creation in Norway. The finance minister is quite right in one thing, and that is that people are the most important resource this country has. That means spending the community's money on refurbishment of people's knowledge and refurbishment of people's welfare is what we actually need for the future. In this way, we deeply disagree with the perspective of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e418	The budget presented to us today is a budget for optimism – optimism for business, and also for jobs, optimism for the important work carried out by the voluntary sector, and optimism for the maintenance and further development of safe and close welfare arrangements. The economic barometers show that the co-operation administration has been working on its economic policy. The interest rate, which was not long since it was 7 pst., is now at 1 pst. The krone price is at a level that makes our export-right businesses absolutely competitive. Economic growth is high, and business optimism is on the rise, while unemployment is on the decline. This clearly shows that the Co-operation Government has shown both the ability and the willingness to control the Norwegian economy and through it laid the basis for better well-being, increased value creation and more jobs. When it then relates to the tax profile in the draft budget, I would like to stress the fact that the greatest injustice in the tax system is now being eliminated, namely the injustice in the great difference between the taxation of labour income and capital income. This grip actually means more taxes to those who already have the most, and that means that the representative Nordtun's image and the representative Djupedal's characteristics are completely wrong. The Christian People's Party is well pleased with the budget that our government is presenting today. This budget will strengthen our welfare services. The budget contains a strong commitment, among other things. kindergarten, school, psychiatry and public transport. From the Christian People's Party's side, it is also natural to bring forward the efforts in the voluntary sector and on increased assistance. As we have seen, the aid budget has a record increase of 1.6 billion new, fresh dollars. We use approx. 99 pst. of all our income on ourselves. Despite many challenges in our own country, we must never forget the poorest of the poor. We must never become ourselves enough. We are therefore glad that the aid rate has now reached 0.95 pst. of GNI. Gifts with tax deductions to voluntary organizations have been a success. The deduction will now be doubled, with an increase of NOK 6000 to NOK 12 000. This is a proper reward and an important signal for the important and irreplaceable work carried out by the voluntary sector. I'm sure this increase will provide an additional stimulus for volunteering. In order to secure well-being, values must be created. The budget presented shows that the Co-operation Government is strongly committed to innovation, growth and jobs. I'm slipping over the warranty system for the shipbuilding industry. It is well received in an industry with slumped order books and will help to strengthen the competitive situation of this important competence industry in our country. We have also noted the Government's strong commitment to research and development, and that proposals are being made for tax havens that will stimulate business. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to realize that man needs more than purely material values. That is why we are glad that the rights to threat training are almost doubled in this draft budget. This gives both church sounds, trust societies, etc. in addition to the country-wide ability to provide children and young people with a safe introduction into trust and value base.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e437	There are almost only negative surprises in Foss’ last budget. It's unacceptable for the Center Party that the food will be 600 million. kr more expensive, that the flow is going to be $1 billion more expensive, that the tax on disease is going to increase by $1 billion, and that commuters are going to be punished by $600 million. kr in increased tax – all in order to reduce the maximum tax. It is unacceptable that an income of NOK 1 million will receive 70 times more tax relief than an income of NOK 120000. That's 20 pst. of all those over the age of 17 who have such low income. It is unacceptable that the local government sector will have a negative settlement. The 3.5 billion extras promised by Stortinget in ours are fed up with tax failures and miscalculations regarding the VAT reform. The government refuses to correct for that. Then there won't be one fresh penny for the excesses that the municipalities need because there will be more students, more older people and there will be more spending on kindergarten and psychiatry. It is unacceptable that rural policy instruments should be reduced and that road construction should not be carried out. It is alarming that the importance of road construction is not mentioned in the financial speech. It goes beyond the value creators that no more effort is being made on the road. The centre party will have a new political course that will give new optimism throughout the country. The government has created an appreciation break by allowing Norway’s Bank to pursue a destructive interest rate policy in 2002 and early 2003 and by emptying all tool toolboxes. It is positive that business is doing better than in the two disaster years — it should be lacking — but investment in business is still at a low level. We have a growth in the economy that gives trade chords, but few new jobs. Business managers warn of flagging out 80000 jobs in five years unless the framework conditions are improved. So I believe in them more than I believe in the Minister of Finance, who shines over the trade chords. At the top of the company's requirements list is much more means of road construction. Governments just say no, no. Norway has the resources and the available machinery and the available people. The center party says yes, yes. The budget shows that billions are being allocated too little during this four-year period, and the Centre Party wants, as in previous years, to increase the effort on road construction a lot. We propose to introduce the same calculation rate for road investment as they do in Sweden. It means a halve. It is pointless that the Svinesund bridge should be super-wage on the Swedish side, but the loss project on the Norwegian side. It says a little about how this government thinks about road investment and investment in infrastructure. The accounts show that the Government has granted 10 billion oil crowns in addition to the budget adopted each year. Prices have not even increased for that reason. The centre part has been criticized for wanting to grant almost half as many extra billions to keep the wheels in turn. We would have many more in work if our policy had been pursued. At that time, tax revenue would have increased without having to increase the rates, and we would have gotten much lower social security costs. It would be more to well-being. That would have happened because we would have moved society's most important resource from the reserve bench and onto the tracks again. State Council Højbråten has said that there are about half a million of those in working age who are not taking part in the labour market today. It's dramatic, and this is against people's will. We need to think more long-term and preventively in our budgeting. We have to be able to spend more on the state budget today when it can be earned several times in the next few years. Better roads for cars and bicycles give fewer flags. It'll give you shorter queues. It gives rise to a net increase in enterprises, more taxes. It causes fewer accidents, and fewer are ill due to dangerous urban air. It's a giant store to think like that. We have to be able to invest smarter. The oil fund provides 3-4 pst. the return on investment abroad. Local business funds have provided 5–8 jobs per year. State-owned million. With such a return, maybe 30 pst, we should spend more on it. The Central Party wants us to see opportunities in travel, in the aquaculture industry and in the maritime industries. We will focus on business support. We want a value creation program for fresh fish, and we want a development program for the inland with amounts that help. In order to achieve the optimism that we want, it is positive that the government is betting on volunteering. But why in the world are the volunteers forgotten? They do so much good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e456	It's always interesting to hear economic theories from the new Center Party. It's the first time I've heard it, but I'm not going to close my ears because there might be something true about getting a dynamic tax policy and cutting social security costs by investing in road construction in the districts. I haven't seen anyone who should have presented that theory in its full width, but you shouldn't rule out anything. However, then, the representative Lund should be very satisfied, for this government is putting more emphasis on road construction than when the Senter party itself was in power. I also have a little problem seeing the whole of the Central Party option. It has now been presented that one of the three parties that want to form government together as an alternative to this after the election, the Central Party, takes a strong settlement with monetary policy. They want to change the instructions and mandates of the Bank of Norway and strongly advocate changes to the establishment of the Petroleum Fund, for which there has long been broad political agreement in this Chamber. It's going to be exciting to see which compromises come out of this. As for the concerns about the price increase as a result of the increase in VAT, I am not quite able to follow the comments of the representative Lund, because he is in charge, and has done so several times in this Chamber, that Norway's Bank should be criticised for not getting the price increase up to 2.5 pst. But at the same time he complains about a VAT increase that gives a price increase of 0.5 pst. When we're at the top of something that's almost zero from before. I don't know if I fully follow that reasoning. With regard to the establishment of fiscal policies and some deduction schemes, I would like to remind you that the deduction schemes are not a contribution to social cohesion or better allocation policies. Most of the deductions found in today's tax system are used most actively by those with the highest income. This also applies to the deduction of commuting. It's not the districts that use these schemes the most. Those who use the commuting discount most strongly today are taxpayers in Oslo and Akershus. There is absolutely a reverse rural policy in relation to the representative’s own contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e467	I am surprised if the Minister of Finance has not realized that on the top of all the business wish list there is an increased investment in road construction, because they want to remove the bottlenecks where the cars in the companies are in line. They lose a lot of money that we don't have an infrastructure that's as good as it is in neighbouring countries. These are both county roads, common highways and tribal roads. In the South-Trande Team, there are 12 billion dollars left to repair the main roads, and it's going to take 20 years if we don't get to do a little bit more than today. The economy sees the dynamic and positive in investing in road construction, not least when we have free capacity in the civil engineering sector. The monetary policy has become as the Central Party has demanded, but it became one and a half years late. At that time, business lost a lot of its equity, because it went on their net that the crown was so strong. It was a pity that the Minister of Finance did not have the strength to intervene and instruct, which should have been done, and for which there would have been a majority in this Chamber. With regard to commuters and the importance of not punishing them financially in relation to today, a lot of people want to live a bit from their jobs, because there is a living environment that they don't want to find in the most central strokes. We think it is wrong to punish those who have made that choice. It's hard for them to sell their house and move out of there. We don't want that to happen. But maybe that's what the government parties want? Centralization costs a lot, not least for people living in cities, because housing prices go up as much as they do. It's hard to build enough in the central strata when centralization goes so fast. We want it to get smaller. We want more jobs to be available in the districts, and people who commute today should still be able to choose that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e476	The economic policy of the co-operation administration is a good result. We have a record low interest rate, which has given everyone in the start-up phase a better economy. The unemployment rate has turned around and is on its way down, and Norwegian business is characterised by optimism in increasing investment and innovation. The government's proposals for reducing taxes on income and increasing taxes on consumption are in line with the Left's tax policy. Our ambition is a transition from red to green taxation, or in more popular Norwegian: from tax on work to tax on consumption. But the left does not want a general tax and tax tightening. The left side is too satisfied with an increase of 1 pst. VAT is taxed for those with the lowest income and an adjustment to the point of entry for the peak tax. These changes help to remove the split model. Finally, the whole complex and unfair tax model, which Left has gone against all the time since it was introduced, can be macularized. In the discussions on the allegations made by the representative of Djupedal about what was most unfair with today's tax system, I fully support what the Minister of Finance said, and what the representative of Sørfonn said about what is the most unfair. We don't want to tax the world, and we are very happy that the tax on the benefits of our own housing will be completely eliminated in the draft state budget. Increased employment and value creation are important in order to increase well-being. New nationwide seed funds located in our university cities will provide access to capital to develop future jobs. This, together with an increase in the Fund for Research and Innovation by DKK 3.2 billion and an increase in the funding of the TaxFUNN scheme, shows that the Cooperative Government is investing in innovation and innovation. Increased efforts on public transport and environmental research, the first step in the implementation of the tax reform aimed at removing the sharing model, and increased efforts for more security through, inter alia. increasing the rights of the police to good left policy. Never before have so many travelled by public transport. The large-scale contribution of the left to public transport results. Left's Minister of Transport, Torild Skogsholm, has provided more to the collective than the Government's laws in the Sem Declaration, and public transport has been strengthened by $4 billion in four years. The system of compensation for large cities investing in public transport has been a success. The left has been part of a reduction in ticket prices or a better route offer in all major Norwegian cities. Therefore, it has been important for us to strengthen this scheme next year from 75 million. NOK 115 million. kr. A quarter of greenhouse gas emissions are from the transport sector. If we are to meet our climate commitments in the Kyoto agreement, we need to stimulate the use of new technologies. A tool is to use differentiated charges that stimulate increased bets on zero-emission technologies. Left will have a large bet on hydrogen as a fuel. Both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Agriculture are strengthening efforts to test alternative fuels and environmentally friendly technologies. Left's good at it. For the Left, welfare policy is primarily about giving all people the opportunity to master their everyday lives. We stand for a freedom that creates security. An extended security is also an extended freedom. Thus, the fight against violence and crime is an important element of a liberal welfare policy. The left is very satisfied with the fact that the police budget is actually increasing by 250 million. kr. Police are given more resources to strengthen prevention, especially among young people, to be present in acute situations and to fight organised crime. The contingency plan for mental health is on track. Increases in operating rights and investments at the base of DKK 1.6 billion will enable us to achieve our goals of a society where each individual can manage to create a presence where a person experiences belonging, maestroism and meaning. Better treatment for our drug addicts has also been a heart issue for the Left. The number of drug users who receive a good supply has increased in recent years. Increased efforts for drug-assisted rehabilitation by 20 million. SEK, at the same time 70 million. spending on various measures to strengthen local authorities’ efforts and 10 million. to strengthen the housing sector will increase the quality of life and the dignity of our many drug addicts. The social responsibility of the left does not stop at Bordere-Jakobself. The increase in resources to help people in great need is an important issue for the Left. I could have mentioned many other chapters that show that the Left has had a positive impact on many of its priorities, including: 500 million. to enhance the competence of teachers. But the most important job that the Co-operation Administration has in relation to its budget, namely the fight against unemployment and the contribution to creating new, forward-looking jobs, I hope is also a goal for the Storting during the treatment of this state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e514	The framework grant to municipalities has been increased by NOK 2 billion. It does not cover the increase in the expenditure of the municipalities. The local economy should be strengthened more than proposed by the Government. Otherwise, the tax burden will only be shifted to people's homes and homes by increasing the property tax on housing. The government will introduce VAT on the sale of second-hand goods. That means you have paid VAT once, but then you have to pay VAT for the second time. A general VAT increase of 1 pst is proposed. in all fields. Instead of increasing VAT, it should have been lowered. It's a little strange that you have to pay VAT on the food you're packing in, and that it increases gradually. Some municipal charges paid to the municipality are subject to VAT. So, the state has to make money for people to pay a fee to the municipalities, a fee that is already high enough. It is proposed to introduce an inspection fee for the fishing fleet of 19 million. kr, which shall cover the administrative costs related to the control of fisheries. Where, then, is the money being collected that would cover the government's expenditure for control? Where's that money going to be? Are they going to go to the State Box, in the black hole? The government will also allow the levy to be introduced in a new law on saltwater fisheries. The coastal party is going against it. Fee on the trade mark register has now been proposed for 20 million. kr. What has to be paid for was previously done free of charge by the brand supervisor. So now the fishermen have to pay 20 million. kr for what was previously free. It's not very social. The teeth are part of the body, but according to the reimbursement scheme they are not part of the body. There are many people who can't afford to set their teeth, because it doesn't go under the reimbursement system and it doesn't go above the credit card. One would almost think that the teeth were part of the body – they are. Everyone sitting here in this room has teeth, now I think. The Director of Fisheries will have 10 million. Extra kroner. Still, it's haunted by Lofotopp's vision, which was created in 1873 by good people to get order on the Lofotovet. Now non-qualified people are going into that building. Before, you had to be a skipper in order to be able to be on board a television boat at all. So now they have to be manned with their own inspectors. Now the navigation requirement has been removed, but they still get 10 million. kr. The state road system – now it is no longer called the state road system, called Mesta – has received 250 million. kr extra nationally. It's too small, and it won't take care of the invested capital and infrastructure we already have. It's true that business is fighting for better roads. That would be the best they could get for Christmas. But to stag away the money abroad, we do. The Petroleum Fund is growing, but we can't afford to take care of our own infrastructure. Strange, you ask me. We've done it before. At the beginning of the 20th century, we had 50 million. kr in the State Reserve Fund. Where did that money go? They disappeared in 1923, when the fund was dissolved, and then it was halved, in 20 years. Has anyone heard this before? That fund was placed in secure papers and government bonds. Have we heard this before? Yes, we do. The Coast Party believes that the ferries in the country should be free. A rate increase of 3.6 pst, which is proposed, is not very tricked. We have suggested here in Stortinget that there should be free ferries, and we got it down. 184 million. kr proposed for racial protection is too small. Every harvest and spring day people live on the outskirts with unsafe roads, and that's not satisfactory. We are against open tendering round on the fast route, because it should be Norwegian. If it's not Norwegian, we can't fight in this room for the fast route.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e537	After listening to the debate, I note that there are many good proposals for changes to the budget, but the framework does not get any bigger for that reason. I assume that, among other things. The SV leader has recently stated that the level of taxation that she seems sensible to govern on the basis of four new years, if the decision to increase is based on it, i.e. from 2005, the level of taxation that the Government has now proposed. She said so as late as in a debate on 'Holmgang' on 1 September. Then we can say that there is not a very large room for the additions that have gone through many articles. Summerly, there have been promises of new billions without anyone pointing to the discovery for it. It may well be natural in an early phase of a budget debate, but there will be no less demanding in a further process for that reason. Let me just take a specific matter and say in relation to the nursery agreement that we follow up the agreement, but the agreement assumes that there is almost full coverage when the maximum price 2 is to be introduced. It's not. Therefore, we give priority to achieving nearly full coverage, so that it will be possible at a later stage, but as soon as possible, to introduce maximum price 2. A general trend in criticism from the opposition parties, at least to the left of the Government, has been the concept of ‘social priority’. I would strongly dispute that as a characteristic of a budget in which we spend billions in areas such as health, international aid, psychiatry, escalating a poverty package that has become quite large gradually, and a very strong school effort. Why do I pull school bets into this context? Well, because school is one of the instruments we have in society to give everyone, regardless of social, economic or cultural background, an opportunity to get ahead in society, to create a platform and to succeed in work and in education. That is why it is an important feature of the social profile of the budget. The aim of the tax reform is to create more justice between those who live only on income from employees and those who live in a combination of income from employees and income from capital. There is no one from the opposition who in this debate has pointed to alternatives to such a conversion, and I look forward with interest to what may come up during the process. It is quite clear that at least we have to change parts of today's tax system, not least as part of our commitments under the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-06.ana.ud2511e548	The Rules of Procedure Committee will now set time limits for the budgetary procedure. Once the Grand Duchy has come together, the President will ask the committees to try as far as possible to comply with these deadlines, and this is related to our desire to have a reasonable, rational and sound budgetary procedure beyond the harvest. If there's anyone who thinks that the president is just addressing the finance committee, it's wrong. This applies to all the committees. The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the Government's proposals for the 2005 government budget be submitted for further consideration in a subsequent meeting. – This is deemed to be adopted.
