ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e107	From the meeting alternate representative of Akershus County, Harald Espelund, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the remainder of the representative André Kukkestad’s leave, i.e. on days 11 and 12 March, for welfare reasons. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of Akershus County, Ib Thomsen, are proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Ib Thomsen is present and will take the seat. Two permit applications are available: From the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative Olav Akssen from 11 March until further notice.From the Workers' Group on welfare leave for the representative Signe Eye from 12 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave: For the province of Hordaland: Pål Barrefjord For Østfold County: Ane Sofie Tömrös3. Pál Barrefjord is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative of Leif Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e160	The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e163	On behalf of the representatives of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Siri Hall Arnøy and myself, I would like to propose measures to increase the use of turbines in local waterworks to exploit energy for power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e168	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e171	On behalf of the representatives of Lena Jensen, Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, Vidar Bjørnstad and myself, I would like to make proposals to revitalise the reform of competence as a reform of education and employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e176	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e179	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, Kjetil Bjørklund, Heidi Sørensen and myself, I would like to propose measures for 4000 new jobs through increased investment in bioenergy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e184	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e198	Fortunately, we live in an open society. We live in a society that is relatively transparent, and we have a magnification that, through all its activities, strives for the greatest possible degree of transparency. We have gradually developed a system of hearings in Stortinget, where virtually all hearings, as long as it is practicable to carry it out, are open, and where both the press, the audience and others are invited to attend. At the same time, it provides an overview of who comes to the open hearings in order either to be confronted with their opinions or to express their views. In addition, virtually all of written enquiries to the Stortinget, including the committees, are recorded in Stortingen’s journals and may be transferred to those who wish to obtain an overview. As I have understood it, there is none of the major representatives, at least as I have been notified, who are ill-affected because they feel pressured by representatives who come to the house to make their opinion known. On the contrary, I have the feeling that all the representatives of big business and all the parties want people to come to the Stortinget in different ways and make their views known. This should be because we want decisions to be made by the Stortinget as much of the available information to flow to the depositors, and thereby the Stortinget, in such a way that most of the information is capable of being evaluated. So, in the majority of the presidency, we feel that almost every consideration has been given to having a big deal that doesn't try to close up in any way. Against this background, the majority of the Presidency of the Grand Duchy seems that the proposal to draw up a register of so-called lobbyists would be unnecessary and would create an unnecessary bureaucracy. Those who want to keep their activity hidden in relation to the Storting might withdraw the business from the Storting, either to the private sphere or otherwise, in order to avoid being registered in such a register. That seems to us to be an unfortunate development and an unfortunate consequence of such a register. Thus, by a majority decision, the Presidency of the Stortingen decided not to set up such a register. Nor do we see that there will be a greater degree of transparency through such an establishment, and we therefore propose that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e211	When the Socialist Left and Left propose a lobby register, or more specifically, they propose that proposals be made for a registration order for those who seek out the Storting on behalf of themselves or others in order to influence the Storting in matters for consideration, it is based on a genuine interest in maximum transparency in decision-making processes. It is important to know who influences and premises the decisions that the Storting is making. Things often have several sides, and there are several different interests of them. Then it is important to know, from the viewpoints that emerge, whether it is Jørgen hatmaker or King Solomon who has affected. Let's say right away: lobbyism in itself is not something suspicious. Lobbyism can be a valuable part of democracy, but a lobbyist has the task of influencing politicians to adopt rules that benefit the interests of lobbyists. Thus, the lobbyist has the power to set the agenda and set the precedents for different action options, and this is being protected from transparency and critical debate. Lack of transparency around this can weaken democracy and the ability to correct around obvious, strong interests, whether in business or strong professional interests, that can pay for capable lobbyists. Let me do some examples. A powerful pharmaceutical industry will have an interest in obtaining its products under the bladder prescription system. Several times we have experienced that either the Social Committee or representatives of the Social Committee have proposed that named preparations fall within that scheme. It may well be that it is very well justified and rightly, but it would have been of interest to know if there have been special pharmaceutical companies on the track, and it would have been of interest to know who had informal meetings with who during the process around IT Fornebu. In addition, the Government’s proposal is usually promoted after open, wide-ranging consultation processes. So we know who it is who has been inside and given their views to know, while the same openness is not there around the Great Britain's work until decision. Nevertheless, as President-in-Office Jørgen Kosmo said, there has become more openness around Stortingen's work – there is no doubt about it. We have had open hearings, but it is in our opinion necessary to distinguish between the formal forms of influence in decision-making processes, such as open hearings, and the more informal ones. It's here the proposal of transparency about who is looking for big business representatives to influence, who they represent, who they meet, and what the matter is, comes in. A registry shall capture direct contact. This will not lead to much extra work, and from now on we know that everyone who visits Stortinget is registered with their own name and the name of the person they visit. A register cannot capture all kinds of contacts, and that is not what we are proposing either. So there's no argument for openness. Then we hear that the registration of those who visit the Storting in order to influence public decisions can lead to more disguised meetings outside the Storting. That was also what the representative Kosmo said. Yes, I'm going to see the big-time representative who has time to meet countless people outside of the Storting. Such arguments have always emerged when proposals for more transparency have been made. That's also what we heard when we were going to open the county committee meetings in Hordaland. So these arguments haven't turned on. More transparency in some areas forces more transparency in other areas. That's an important argument. The power investigation shows that Norwegian depositors perceive the influence of professional lobbyists as relatively high in the cases where professional lobbyists have been engaged. The same study shows that four out of five cluster representatives believe that professional lobbyism should be made visible. In other words, there is therefore no agreement between this and the majority proposal from the Presidency. Once again – I have to make it clear – that lobbyists give premises for decisions or influence in some way, in themselves, there is no danger to democracy. It can even be good for democracy, because lobbyists can be an important democratic source of supplementary and complementary information. My soul has received a lot of good additional information when I have spoken to people from e.g. cultural life. Many of them do it for idealistic reasons and unpaid. I am quite sure that we have all become wiser in the various contacts we have had. But lobbyism challenges the principle of equality and the principle of publicity. The turnover of professional lobbying services increased throughout the 1990s. There is nothing wrong with it either, but it is a fact that there are different opportunities to buy lobby services, and thus some may affect the interests of others. This is how distrust of the political system is created. Therefore, transparency about influence is important. I am quite convinced that those who have completely pure flour in the bag will have nothing against such a registration system. I will address my proposal, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e234	The representative of Ågot Valle has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e237	The left may well call itself the mother of democracy in Norway, and that is a tradition we want to uphold. That is why we have been concerned for many years with the conditions of democracy, in particular. through proposals for decentralisation of decisions, increased local democracy in other areas, increased publicity and more transparency in administrations and elected bodies. This is an important issue for a liberal party. Democracy can never be taken for granted, and it must be as transparent as possible to prevent abuse of power and concentration of power in the hidden. In this context, the proposal for a registration system for lobbying activities on the Stortinget is a small but important contribution, as one of many that, in total, strengthens democracy and the transparency of important processes in the People's Government. As the vote shows, the Left has promoted the proposal before, and I do not guarantee that we will not promote it again later, as it will obviously be voted down today. We have fought many battles for increased publicity and openness in the past, under some severe resistance, but gradually with success. In this context, I mention improvement of the Public Service Act, open meetings in the Presidency, open committee meetings in the municipalities and other transparency reforms locally. ‘Openness posters’ have also been developed in both municipal and state administrations that many people use today. I am very glad that SV joined the proposal this time. We also received signals from other parties that were promising, and showed that at least there was a willingness to consider such questions more positively than before. This was the case with both party president Carl I. Hagen and four out of five depositors, according to the report of the Powers Investigation. Unfortunately, this has not led to a vote in favour of the proposal. The impact of decisions and lobbying are legitimate and necessary parts of democracy and decision-making processes in society and on the Storting. The proposal is no suspicion of that. But it's so that such resources are misdistributed. Power and influence can often be the result of resources. Increasingly, the Storting addresses detailed issues, usually on behalf of organised interests, and it may have significant societal interest to see who influences. Today, there are strict rules for the Government in terms of transparency, and there are strict rules of procedure for different parties to be heard when submitting cases. The left believes that a single lobby register can rather help demystify much of the influence that is taking place today, rather than make it suspicious. However, both lobbyists and representatives must be able to withstand the searchlight on the processes that are taking place prior to important decisions. At all events, I find it difficult to understand the opposition of the majority of the Presidency in this matter. The argument is only that it is considered that the lobby register will not be ‘a suitable instrument for safeguarding the underlying interests’. The left considers that there must be a clear advantage if the media on behalf of the public can go beyond the activities of different interest groups in the decision-making process at Stortinget. In the debate, but not in the vote, it is claimed that the introduction of such a mechanism would lead to a major bureaucracy. It won't. The Left Group has implemented on its own a very simple system for registering contact meetings and enquiries, and something similar can be done for the Stortinget without further work of importance. My co-rapporteur, Mr. Ågot Valle, has set out several good arguments for introducing a lobby register, and I fully agree with her comments. The extent of paid lobbying is greatly increased and the full transparency of this impact is an important democratic issue. Transparency and transparency are fundamental prerequisites for a well-functioning democracy and to prevent inequalities in power from developing in secret. Then it's said from this pulpit that such a code can be circumvented by having meetings outside of the Stortinget. In that case, it's a completely new principle of magnification that you don't adopt rules because you think someone might be able to bypass them. Today, the media have encouraged every citizen of the country to photograph every action with their mobile phones and send in, so now it is largely only in the Stortinget you can have a meeting without full publicity. I agree with Valle. I have become much wiser by many meetings I have had, especially with individuals, with individual relationships in relation to the larger matters we have. There are none of the individuals who have ever said: no, I won't meet you if you register that we have had a meeting. But what we see more is that those who are the least interested in getting into such registers are those with the big interest in money. The new lobbying concept here at Stortinget is that companies and others with money interests use the questioning institute, via the MMI and others, to find out what we deposit representatives think about different issues, and then to put the lobbying strategy on it. I believe that we big-time politicians should be very alert to the new developments among the strong lobbyists. I therefore regret that the majority does not agree with the proposal. I promise that the Left will continue to be the guardian of democracy. What I have not been told in this debate, and which I wonder very much, is: what is it really you are so afraid of?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e271	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2218]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e287	Today, the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy is asking for a significant extra appropriations to be made available to the Mehamn Commission. I therefore find it necessary, because the amount is so large, to explain the Presidency's reasons for wanting to meet the needs stated by the Commission. Both the Grand Council, the Grand Duchy's Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and the Presidency of the Grand Duchy have been concerned that when this investigation commission was appointed, we should not leave anything out of the question in order to seek out the background and the cause of the Mehamn accident. As a result, we have had to give the Mehamn Commission quite considerable powers to obtain information where it was possible to find it. So when the Commission comes to the Presidency and applies for the deadline, because it feels it needs to do further research, make further technical calculations that are relatively costly, the Presidentship of the Stortinge has unanimously found that there is something we need to authorise. It has budgetary consistency to extend the deadline for release until 31 December 2004. We are opposed to Stortinget because we want nothing to be done trying to find the cause and the background of this terrible aircraft accident. We are therefore asking for the Storting's support for a relatively substantial increase in the budget and the possibility of making funds available in this year's budget. We propose an increase of NOK 8 592 000, and we ask for the Enlargement's connection to this additional appropriation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e292	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2219]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e308	The rapporteur, Mr Kosmo, has the floor. – This reminds me of a exercise run!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e311	I do not wish to go into the individual proposals on which the Stortinget, through its work in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, has commented. However, I would like to start my speech by making it clear that the Storting has a commanding authority with regard to the Government, and that there is an obligation on the Government to implement the Storting decision as far as it goes. There can be no doubt about this. For each State Council or the Government to avoid carrying out its duties under the decision of the Storting, some serious consequences may arise. If we break down this important principle in our system, which wants to focus on the value of the People's Government, I believe we will destroy what has been the Constitution's intention, that power should lie with the people through the elected assemblies. At the same time, it is quite clear that the Government has a responsibility through its activities to provide guidance and guidance to the Storting and to provide the Storting with the information necessary for the Storing to take the most appropriate decisions. It is not that all these decisions come on the table until the day the Stortinget makes a decision. Most of these proposals have moved with them to committee and are being discussed and decided in Stortinget as a result of a relatively long process, where the Government and the members of the Government are also aware of what is going on. It is therefore, in fact, up to the members of the Government of the Grand Duchy, in the Grand Chamber, to make it clear if, in their opinion, it is not possible to implement the decisions of the Grand Duchy on which the Grand Duchy has ambitions. But now it is not possible to have an overview of everything at all times, and something needs to be investigated. That is why we have this system of government feedback through a big message on how the various decisions have been followed up. The size recognizes that, in some cases, there may be many different ways of meeting the Storing and implementing the decisions. Therefore, most of the decisions taken by the Storting have been implemented by the Government in some way and some of them in a way that the Storting has subsequently approved. For there is only one way to transform a decision on enlargement. It is that the Storting itself makes a different decision or that the Storting itself interprets how the decision is to be implemented. So if the Government does not find it possible to implement the decision the Stortinget has ordered the Government to implement, there is actually an obligation for the Government to come back to the Stortinget and try to invite the Stortinget to make another decision. So I'm going to be the first one to admit that these instruction decisions have completely taken off. It is quite obvious that the amount that it has become in the last year, basically, in my opinion, is distorting the balance between accumulation and government. There are many reasons why it has become so, and it will lead too far to address all the details, but one of the reasons is the stated objective of both government and magnificence that a committee comment, a majority comment, is not sufficient to instruct the Government. That's right. That's the way it should be. However, if a government consistently fails to take into account the signals that the Storting is giving on large-scale messages or other documents, and says that there is no decision taken, then you invite the Stortinge to become more precise – instead of giving signals, decisions taken. I believe that this is a very unfortunate development. On the other hand, it is also quite clear that when a government has a weak parliamentary basis in the Grand Duchy, it will be possible for the Grand Duchy to gather on majority decisions that in many ways – I'm sorry to say that, President – are running with the Government through what we popularly call big business. What I find most regrettable about this is that it is not possible for the Storting to have an overview of the decisions that can be implemented at any time, while, through its treatment and the activity that we have in the population related to the activity of the Storting, a decision is actually taken. And people think that now it's going to be like this. Then it doesn't get that way, either because the decision isn't sufficiently established to ensure that it can be implemented, or because the government wants to continue the fight against the decision. When there are many such decisions taken by the Storting and signaled that this is what you want, which is not implemented, it will in the long run lead to people losing faith in politics, in the government of the people, because – you have heard it – ‘it does not help what they say, it will not be any of it anyway’. This is a very unfortunate development, because it leads to the population no longer concentrating on the democratic political processes but finding other forms of reaction. I believe that part of the decisions that Stortinget has taken would have been better suited as an investigative decision, where the government is asked to investigate questions, put them into a larger context and come back to Stortinget with either proposals or bigoting messages where one tries to draw up a policy for the future in agreement with the signals given by the Stortinget. I believe that in the long term there are several things we can do with this. One is that the Storting is more conscious of the way we make decisions, what decisions we make, and what direction we give them. That will be my strong recommendation. The second is that in a longer perspective, we discuss the relationship between big business and government and ensure that we are involved in strengthening the government's foundation in the Storting, so that it actually dares say no when it thinks no, instead of just pretending, and then come back and try to erase the quality of the decision that is made. Let me finally say the same thing that I started with: There must be no doubt that once the Stortinget has made a decision, the Government has to deal with this. If you don't want to, you get to the Stortinget and ask that the Stortinget make a different decision. That is why I expect the Committee's comments now given to the individual decisions of a majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to be followed up by the Government, and to come back and explain to the Storting how they intend to follow up these decisions. Otherwise, there can be a lot of trouble in the relationship between big business and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e332	I'd like to begin by supporting the approach chosen by the case spokesman in this case, focusing on the fact that the number of appeal decisions is higher in the previous session than ever before, i.e. 247 decisions. For many such decisions, as the Advocate-General has said and the Presidency has pointed out, each decision may have less importance and greater weight. It's not good for Storting's reputation and authority. On the one hand, the Stortinget should be much more cautious with the use of the call-up decision. At the same time, it is clear that appeal decisions are mandatory for the Government and are to be followed up. Respect for the decision of the Storting is a necessary commitment for the legitimacy of the democratic system. If, for some reason, a decision has not been taken, the Government shall return to Stortinget when it is ready, not waiting until the deadline for following up the decision has passed. In some of the issues in the configuration, the Committee has split into a number and a minority. In most cases where the government party has submitted minority comments, it is because the majority and the minority have different interpretations of what the follow-up should be. I would like to say that I do not believe the Committee on Control should criticize a follow-up in cases where there are different political judgements about what is correct follow-up, and that is probably the case in some of these cases. An example is the case of the mains power supply, which is processed in the Energy and Environment Committee. Another example is the extent to which the review of the follow-up to child protection decisions should be included in the proposal. Here I feel enough that the opposition has designed a case. There are several things I think are of this kind, as you can see from the setting. Now it is up to the opposition to choose which standard to use, and whether one will use the control mechanisms in matters of different policy interpretations. I'd probably like to encourage a shouter to something less rare, and save the strong words for things that are really serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e345	In my view, the request decision-making system is an important democratic system and a good democratic instrument. It finds its balance over time. The balance sheet point, I think, is very dependent on whether we have a majority-based or minority-based government. But the arrangement as such is good. I also think it is a good arrangement that the request decisions that are made are followed up systematically, as is done in this case. It may be true that it may be difficult for the Government to have an overview of a flora of the request decision, but there are mainly two strategies to choose from such a starting point. One is to ignore, postpone and delay. The other is active in following up, including reporting back if you have delays. Depending on the strategy chosen, this is at least an opportunity to distribute political cards, both yellow cards and, if the amount of yellow cards becomes large enough, after each red card. For my part, I would like to comment on two yellow cards distributed under the Ministry of Education and Research. One concerns the request decision to have a plan for the construction of student housing. There is a majority very critical that this has not been followed up in a manner that the majority considers sound. But also the government parties, which are in a minority, express themselves in such a way that it actually becomes a unanimous committee that is not satisfied with the government's follow-up to the plan for the construction of student housing. It should be noted by the Government and the Council of State, and I assume they do. The second yellow card is given in the first case mentioned in the Ministry of Education and Research. Follow-up to the legislative proposal on school environmental committees. It has now been a year late. This is a bad example and deserves a yellow card in relation to keeping an overview and focusing on prioritising the follow-up to the request decision. This government boasts of a great commitment to eliminating bullying in Norwegian school. The fact that we have previously adopted a new paragraph in the Training Act, Chapter 9(a) on the school environment of students, is one important measure. However, it is also important that the instruments to comply with the law are put in place and do not remain on hold. In this context, the legislative proposal to have legislation and a regulatory body on the functioning of the school environment, and not least how the students themselves are involved in school environmental work, is particularly important, and it is very incomprehensible that the Government has not followed this up in a much more active way than the one presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e356	I want to start by giving praise to Grand President Kosmo for raising this debate. There is a trace of a further debate in a slightly wider perspective on the relationship between magnification and government. I think it is appropriate to give strong praise for addressing this fundamental issue, for it has developed a trend in this process which is not necessarily of the positive, which has been pointed out by many. To the extent that neither growth nor government has a sufficiently respectful relationship with the decisions taken, it is not just a matter of academic interest that one goes under public law and discusses, nor for particularly constitutionally interested ones. It is simply a fundamental prerequisite for a democracy that it is not just a matter of this and a hint, and that the individual representative here in the house is shown a political will, ensuring a majority for a request decision, for example, but then perhaps put it in the drawer after the motivation for the decision may have been achieved and a little headline has been given in the paper. It implies the misuse of the authority of instruction on which the Stortinget has when a decision is a formal way of fulfilling the wishes it may have. It's not just a political vibe that you're going to use when it's appropriate. On the right, it appears that magnification and government have a mutual responsibility to take this debate and, where appropriate, to propose the necessary changes in practice. Perhaps, in a further debate, the Storting should also consider certain safeguard mechanisms in relation to the decisions taken. These are other points of contact for the selection of Document No. Eight proposals that we are proposing. There's an increasing number of them, and we're spending a huge amount of administrative resources dealing with them outside the budget. In recent times we have been concerned with our problem in democracy, that we have weak minority governments, and where majority government, right of dissolution and investment are the solutions. We've been trying to invest in a way, at least a little bit, in that this government was a little disguised with the support of the Progress Party. Now, someone might say that we haven't developed a custom for that. But there's a trace of something that might be. We're going to deal with the dissolution right later. But a majority government is not necessary if you have a responsible opposition, or you have security mechanisms, for example. in the case of budgetary procedures, ensuring that no decisions are taken outside my budget. It's part of the system weaknesses that I hope the prime minister will also include in the further work on this matter, because it's part of exactly the same problem, the relationship between big business and government, and that you sit on each side and sometimes use formal game rules and mechanisms in the system today in a way that doesn't serve democracy. I would like to close immediately once again for the Right to warmly welcome the initiative of the President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy. It's about time. The number of request and investigation decisions taken in recent years — and it is not only in the legal faculty that St.meld is used. No 4 as a laughing reference work to show how much strange you're doing in this house – not exactly people's reading, but there's a lot of other places to read as well. So I'll once again say a thousand thanks for the president taking this up. I also expect that there will be alternative solutions with points of contact in relation to the telematics that we have addressed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e371	Unfortunately, the annual review by the Control and Constitutional Committee of the list of request and investigation decisions shows that the Government does not sufficiently implement the decisions taken by the Stortinget. In my opinion, this is not good. That is not good for politics, and it is not good for the reputation of politics. Once again, the people's opinion is that the decisions taken by the Stortinget should be implemented. It's kind of the assumption that's on the ground. It is true that today, as we have also heard from this pulpit, there is a debate on the extent to which the Stortning will adopt this type of request decision, but it is beyond doubt that the Storting can adopt matters and formulate policies to the extent that the Storting itself wishes. As the case-rapporteur correctly clarified in his statement, Stortinget has an instructional authority. The power shall lie here, in this room, with the representatives of the people. When the Stortinget has made a decision, it is the government's responsibility to implement them, unless you do not emphatically inform the Stortinget that you do not intend to do so, and why you do not intend to do so. The fact that there is a debate today on the extent to which the Storting should take this type of decision we are talking about here does not prevent it, and of course it does not detract from the responsibility of the Government to follow up the decisions that are actually taken. The year’s review of the status of the various request and investigation decisions shows that there is a lack of follow-up to a significant number of cases. As the Progress Party sees it, this is an unacceptable relationship. The Government must deal with and follow the decision of the Storting. It is not that the Government itself can choose which of the Biggest decisions you want to comply with, and which you do not want to implement. This should be a matter of course. Of course, we also see in the Progress Party that circumstances may arise that make it difficult or not desirable for the Government to implement a decision taken by the Stortinget. But at least you have to get back to Stortinget quickly and report about this, so that the Stortinget can reconsider what is to be done in the case. In any case, it is totally unacceptable that decisions remain in a drawer for years, eventually to be forgotten. Another trend that can be seen from this report is that a number of cases are notified with deadlines and are being announced to the Stortinget, but that the deadlines are constantly shifted, so that it can take years for the Government to implement what was the Stortinge intention and decision. There are also several cases that have been announced by the Government, which cannot yet be found in the press release. The Progress Party expects that when the cases announced do not comply with the deadline set, the Government will notify the Storting about this. As we therefore see it, it is very important that the Storting should follow the practice that exists here, that the various proposals adopted should follow up on an annual basis. The Committee has examined the decisions and our comments on the various decisions are to be read in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e398	As has been stressed by several speakers, inter alia: by the rapporteur-in-chief is one of the most important tools available to us to ensure that the interaction between accumulation and government is adequately conducted. I am not going to repeat all of the excellent case rapporteur said in his post, but I will go into two individual decisions. The first is Decision No. 324, where the Storting has asked the Government to take initiative in relation to a case, for example. through organisations such as the WTO and the OECD, referred to in the Decision. Then, in our opinion, it is not enough from the Government to say that it is not possible to do this through the organisations that Stortinget has mentioned as an example. I would like to stress that there is an overall committee which, in this case, underlines the government's obligation to inform the Storting and to obtain new instructions if the Storing assumptions are not implemented. There are several examples in the communication of this type of decision, where the Storting has a clear intention, and where the answer to our judgement is not at all good enough, in view of the fact that this intention is not feasible, where the Government should have clearly come back and asked for a new decision. So I would like to add a few brief comments to Decision No. 402 and the Committee's observations there. This is likely to be more a criticism of an inaccuracy on the part of the committee, at least on our part, than on the part of the government. In the notes to Decision No: 402 we say: ‘The Committee assumes that the Government will return to Stortinget with a Communication on the Church Economy in the spring of 2005.’» A review of the revised national budget and the municipal proposition has been requested in the original decision. At least on the SV's side, it has not been the intention of the Committee to begin to ask for explicit notification on matters where the technical committees have not clarified that it is such a review they wish to carry out. I just want to make it clear that for our part it is not meant to say that it must be a big message, but that you want a feedback to Stortinget in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e417	Like the representative André Dahl, I would like to express my delight in presenting this matter to the rapporteur. It has two elements: a number of individual cases, on which there is no reason for any other than the members of the Scientific Committee to express their views, and a horizontal issue, on which the rapporteur pointed out, on which the whole of the Storting has a responsibility to consider and contribute to quality-enhancing. The Advocate General gave some views on the issue of the division of responsibilities between magnification and government in terms of the trend towards a certain inflation in the number of requests decisions. It may in itself be an interesting discussion, but more fruitful than discussing who has the main responsibility, either the government side or the Stortinget, is to ask how to raise the quality of communication between the Stortinget and the Government. I believe without a doubt that the rapporteur must be given the right idea that we have seen a significant increase in the amount of ball games back and forth, without resulting in an equivalent quality increase in view of the results. Both parties must be interested in increasing the quality of our management system, for example. because it concerns a fundamental democratic issue, namely the confidence of the people in our political system and the confidence that the political system is doing what it should do after the constitution. In the long run, this is a question of the relationship between map and terrain. The map drawn by the Constitution is, in principle, very clear in determining what is the Government's task and obligation, and what is the Grand Duchy's task and obligation. It hears that throughout history many elements have come into our management system that were not present in 1814 and are not included in the Basic Law. There are no political parties in the Constitution. There are also no party groups or party programmes or any of the elements that are now quite natural parts of the practical implementation of the policy. But the framework remains unchanged, and it presupposes that the Government is the executive state power, and that the Storting is the legislative and granting state power. In addition, a third task is always to verify that the Government is doing what it is obliged to do. With regard to the first two elements of the role of the Grand Duchy, legislative and admissibility, reality is so far very clear. The size has at any time unlimited freedom to take legal decisions, only with the limitations of special procedures if you also want to change the Constitution, but that is a matter for yourself. The size also has perfect freedom to take decision-making. These Decisions shall be binding. There can be no problem. If Stortinget has a clear view that money should be allocated for a purpose, Stortinget can do so. What is the difficulty is the great grey zone, where the Storing for various reasons does not want to govern by law decisions or concrete admissibility decisions. Now our constitution also does not require parliamentaryism as a system of governance. Nevertheless, by convention it is an entirely unquestionable part of our state constitution. Parliamentaryism presupposes, as it were, that power and responsibility should be respected. That is to say, power shall not be exercised without the responsibility of the person exercising power. The problem of a trend towards an increasing number of more and less binding request decisions is that this basic principle is powdered. That is, you get an increasing number of issues where responsibility is difficult to identify. If the role-play between magnification and government is such that a large majority in a given case finds it more appropriate to rule in small terms than to rule in large measure, it is appropriate to avoid confronting the Government and, if necessary, to force the Government to exercise a right and, instead, to adopt an unclear request decision to see what is happening on the part of the Government, it will increasingly end up in situations where it becomes difficult to find out where the responsibility really lies. It also makes the control function of the Storting difficult, because it is difficult for a large number to control themselves. And it would be very difficult for a large number of people to fall behind, if it turns out that a decision was unfortunate, or that it was based on lack of assumptions, to exercise self-criticism. It is known as the most demanding form of criticism in this world. That is why, in my opinion, there is reason to take seriously the issues to which the rapporteur presented and invited. I certainly believe that it is an improvement potential, certainly from the Government side and independent of changing governments, but it is also an improvement potential from the Storting. For the more the Storting lives up to the tasks that our Constitution assigns to Storting, and leaves it to go beyond that, the easier it will also be to draw the Government to responsibility. Finally, I must remind you that the means of power conferred on the Storting is under the Constitution, if you want a fundamental other policy to be pursued than that of the Government, is to take responsibility for the creation of a new government. The fact that the majority of the population are conscious of that responsibility is, in fact, the condition for parliamentaryism to function as a system. If it is not able to live up to that responsibility, then there must also be restrictions on what the majority of population can allow to impose on the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e432	I agree with Inge Wohnning that the government of course has an improvement potential, in line with what previous governments might have, to follow up the decisions of the Stortinget fatter, in a better way. There is no doubt that when the government looks through the sum of the request decisions, there is a basis to see that in some areas we should have done a better job. On the other hand, I think it is important to look at some of the problems that have arisen in recent years, with the huge amount of request decisions taken. In the meantime, decisions are also taken which are essentially contradictory. I am currently in a position of decision where I have been asked by two different majority, one of which, of course, has a majority in both, with two different times to report back to the Grand Duchy on the same matter, adopted in the context of the debate relating to the languages of the throne and the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs respectively. I think it's a good idea to clean up. But I think there is a need to see that one of the reasons why we get criticism in some of these cases is that when you make decisions, you may not have taken due account of how long things take when they're going to be implemented. It is not because there is an aggravation or a lack of desire to follow-up, but it is true that deadlines for feedback, time-limits in relation to legislation are set so tight that it is contrary to other rules, given by this magnificence or past accumulation, that the government must also follow up. For example, we need to spend time on stakeholder consultation rounds. We are currently getting criticism from both the LO, the Municipal Councils' Central Association and other organisations in a number of cases because we have to cut too much on the consultation deadlines, among other things. because we have to meet tight time requirements for messages back to Stortinget. Of course, it's a topic and a discussion you can take, about how much you should listen to others, but within today's Public and Administrative Act, we have processes that are adopted by the Stortinget and that we, as governments, must follow up. Many in public Norway, with the exception of government and storage appliances, feel that we are currently making processes so fast that they feel that they are not given time in relation to the process they need to make a professional and organisational/political input into these matters. I would like to give an example of the big business message on coordination of work, social security and social services. A unanimous increase gave the government a one-year investigation mission in this matter, in a very large area. 15 000 employees are affected by these questions. When the message came to Stortinget, within the deadline – we had probably wanted a longer time, and it is possible that we should have chosen to go to Stortinget and said that we could not deliver so quickly, because then we had time to process – the message was not good in all areas, but we showed the direction. The matter was sent back from Stortinget to the Government because you felt that the job had not been done well enough. It is clear that in heavy conversion processes and with short deadlines it is difficult to respond at such an early stage. Another problem, of course, arises when decisions imply that a relatively large amount of money is to be spent on an area. The government has a responsibility to provide a total budget. It is clear that when we present a total budget, it may be that not all decisions are followed up at the speed desired in relation to the previous decision on the roll-out. Then there will be a question of the budget backlog that has been given, is a real feedback that we have currently not found room to follow up all the request decisions. We also find ourselves in a somewhat difficult situation between the strict budgetary rules imposed by the Storting itself for the budgetary process itself and wanted to go beyond that budgetary regulation through other types of decisions in other parts of the year. So I think that the initiative taken by the President-in-Office of the Council as rapporteur for this matter in relation to having a better dialogue both on quantity and on what type of decision is taken is important, also in order that we can do such a good job as the Stortinget of course wants a government to do once a decision has been taken. We have to see that there are things that take time, and there are things where we have other processes that make demands on us. I would like to refer to another case where not only the administrative side comes in: the Storting has taken decisions, and former governments have thus changed the investigation guide in view of the fact that both equality issues and regional policy implications are to be investigated in all cases. It is clear that if we are going to bring a case to Stortinget where we are going to follow the previous decision on large-scale processes that are supposed to be done before we come back with the matter, this will necessarily take time. And so it's a previous decision for big business, for example. the need to have an investigation into the impact of regional policy on all potential issues. It takes time to reveal matters and questions about it, but it's in the investigation manual that the whole government unit has about it. So I agree, as I initially said, that we have potential for improvement. I think we need to have a dialogue about how we can also say something about decisions being taken in Stortinget, about what forecast we have for dealing with matters. There is one matter in my area that I will return to Stortinget with the status of. It is not a majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that has pointed it out, but it is among other things. the adoption of the requirement to amend the legislation in family reunification cases, in which case criticism from two parties was given for this to take too long, for it was urgent. I would like to remind you that there was one case on which there had not been any consultation rounds before the decision was taken. It was a matter that came in a Document No. Eight proposals here. It goes very close to fundamental human rights in several areas, and it was said from this pulpit that we have to do two things: we have to determine the relationship with human rights, and we have to have it at the hearing. We spent three to four months investigating the relationship with human rights and creating a consultation document. I'm actually proud that we've done it in a short time. And it's a regulation on how we're going to be able to implement this. I feel a little respect for you too. Because even if we want things to happen tomorrow, and decisions are taken here, we have adopted processes and procedures in other areas. And not least, in Norway, we are listening to stakeholders before we make the final decisions, and that is part of the mapping that we must have of the facts. I'm very impatient as a person. I understand that biging representatives are very impatient. I can sometimes annoy myself about these things, but it's part of the legal security mechanisms, and it's part of the security of our democracy that we also have to spend some time on some things.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e452	I would like to comment a little on what Councillor Erna Solberg said now in terms of the investigation and investigation instructions, where there are decisions taken in the Stortinget. It is true that the investigation manual is the normal system that is being followed. And of course, the normal system is that a government that will look at an area where there might be legislative changes or regulatory changes, maybe will reduce a sample. We get a NOU from a sample, which then goes to the hearing, the government takes its stand and presents the matter to the Stortinget, who takes the final decision. I guess that's what the state council said. That's the normal procedure. But then there are other times this is not followed, where the decision is actually taken first. When Stortinget – based either on a proposal addressed in a setting to a matter from the government, or on a Document No. Eight proposals that are dealt with in the committee and then come to the Stortinget – if a decision is taken that obliges the government to do something, then I cannot see that there should be some automatic in that, after the Stortinget has actually taken what is normally referred to as a final decision, it should be sent out to the hearing. The investigation instructions relate to the work of the administration. There are no rules for when Stortinget makes a decision. And if the Stortinget takes a decision that the government might think is unwise, then the government should say that it will take the consequences of not implementing a decision that the Stortinget is about to take, before the Stortinget takes the decision. But when the government doesn't say anything and decisions are taken that will be implemented, and they're crystal clear – I agree with Inge Wohnung and the prime minister that it can be a grey zone, it could be a request decision that's unclear – at least I don't think it's obvious that the government should send the decision of the Storting to different organisations. Because then the Stortinget has made its decision. Such a decision is Decision No. 612, 19 June 2003, amending the foreign policy § 23. Then the government should have just done it. It's the one that's been sent to the hearing. And if the government thought that such a decision could not be made – as far as I remember, it was almost a unanimous decision – the government would in case have said that it cannot accept it. That decision is under the authority of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. So I'm not initially accepting what the Council of State here says, that when the Storting takes a decision, it's going to be treated roughly the same as an enquiry an organisation sends to the government about a position, it has to be consulted before the government can do anything. When the Stortinget has taken the decision, then the government's job, as the President-in-Office said in his statement, is to implement the decision. If you don't want to do that, you have to tell me in advance. Then comes the parliamentary governance system. And then it's clear that then it might happen that the Storting, who might have thought to make a decision, leaves it, because you don't want the situation that arises when the government warns it won't implement a decision that the Storting is about to make. At least I can't accept this without further notice. And it is also clear from the investigation manual that there is full opportunity to fail to send obvious things to the hearing when a government is sitting and assessing. And when the Stortinget has made a decision, it's a little serious if the government says that this big business decision will probably have to be reviewed. When we see the individual comments from the departments for some decisions, it sometimes seems that it is actually the office that says: No, this decision in the Stortingen was stupid, we can't do that, so we have to send it to the hearing, we have to train it, we have to put it in a drawer, and so on. There's a lot of the answers that indicate that. In this setting, yellow cards are dealt, as Arne Sortevik called them. There are several places where the population is saying this is not acceptable. But then you could say that you also have the possibility of red cards. Yes, of course, it becomes too many yellow, it could eventually become a red card. If, in sum, a government shows a lack of both responsibility and interest in implementing the decision making process, it can also eventually turn into a general red card for the relationship with the Stortinget. But here, as I said, it's just distributed some yellow cards to the government. The vice president, Inge Wohnning, also pointed out the majority's responsibility. He said that the majority had to show responsibility for not taking decisions that could in some way not be implemented. I can agree that the majority – and all parties – have a responsibility, and you can sometimes put restrictions on yourself. And you do, they all do, even though not everyone agrees that it looks like this. But I would like to point out that, in the parliamentary governance system, it is not really the majority in the Grand Hall who, when a decision is being taken, will have to limit themselves in every case. In our constitution, the government has an obligation to notify the Storting that it does not intend to implement a decision. And it is actually the government's duty to do before the decision is taken, not to write a letter six months later saying that this decision will not be implemented by the government – which the government has actually done several times. This must be done before the adoption of the decision. It is the government that is obliged to impose restrictions, not the majority of the population that are about to reach a decision. Then André Dahl was in on the investment as a system and thought that the proposal we made, and which was adopted after we had had the declaration debate after the government change, was a proposal for some kind of investment. I don't think it was. It could be viewed as roughly that, but if we had invested as a system, as a requirement, it would have been quite a different situation. If it had been a requirement that there should be a voting where a majority had to stand behind a government in order for it to function and accede, it would, of course – in the given situation a few years ago – have given the Progress Party a completely different negotiating card. Then we could have set some conditions. We couldn't because we didn't have that system. It is clear that with a requirement that, before a new government is formed, it should be a majority through voting that is behind it, all parties that in such a situation are deemed to be in a sort of tilt situation will have a completely different starting point for negotiation. Experience with weak minority governments is starting to become so that there are several of us who have started to taste just to introduce investment, and we have said yes to it, under certain conditions connected with the right of dissolution. That's also the way some people have said, that it was okay when we had this vote a couple of years ago. But when the government immediately afterwards treated all non-government parties quite the same, it didn't get the meaning that most of the government had actually expected, that the government had a different proposal for the party that imprisoned it, than for the declared opposition parties. This is where we've got an uneasy situation now, with a weak minority government. Finally, I will at least give the request – not in the form of a decision – to the Government and the members of the Government to show a slightly greater interest in the implementation of the decision making process than has been done in the last year. And as others have also pointed out, when the Government informs the Storting in writing that this and that must be done within that and that deadline, those deadlines should be reviewed and followed. So several times the government itself has written and said, "We want to present this before Easter." Yes, then it means to put it forward before Easter. I understand all the problems, but just in the case of letters to the Stortinget, it would have been an advantage if the members of the government had read thoroughly through what they are signing. I know they have to sign a lot of letters that in other contexts they don't have the chance to read, but messages to the Stortinget you might want to read through and make sure that once you've promised something, it actually gets done. And finally, we have to look at our processes and systems. And I think, as the municipal minister is here, that she should strongly assess our system for the local economy. We have a so-called municipal proposition that we treat in Stortinget on the spring side, and that Kommune-Norge is actually taking seriously. They probably don't do that much anymore, but at least they've taken it seriously in the past that the Spring Day Size decides on the local economy next year, they can rely on it. It is just like the whole idea that when the municipal budgets are treated in the autumn, the municipalities should know in good time what the financial framework they have to deal with. After all, the Stortinget first laid down the framework for the local economy in its budget decision, which takes place in parallel with the treatment of municipalities, and that is not desirable. The knowledge of the municipality's proposition in the spring part was that the municipalities should know what they had to do with the framework. We all remember that by Decision 601, 19 June 2003, Stortinget increased the municipality's free income by SEK 1.5 billion compared to the government's proposal – and many municipalities thought it was serious. Many municipalities based their planning on an increase in free income. That decision was not followed up. It was accepted by the government parties and the Workers' Party – in their agreement – not to follow it up. That's what these parties have to answer for. But I think the Council of State will agree that it is not desirable that this is the way the system is now. We have to be able to get to something that gives some binding decisions on the spring side, and if the government disagrees, it gets to say something and ask cabinet questions at that time. However, with regard to the decisions taken in relation to the municipal proposition of the spring party, we must jointly – I do not have a patent solution – try to find a solution so that the municipalities can deal with it when planning their budgets for the following year. I hope that the Council of State will at least agree that the process itself and the system here are not good enough, when we look at the experience of the decisions last year and of the final budgetary procedure last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e481	I agree with Mr Hagen that once the Stortinget has made a clear decision, for example, it will be. the investigation instructions are not necessarily of the same importance. But when the Stortinge decides on close deadlines for delivering investigations back to Stortinge, the investigation instructions apply, of course, and then we will shed light on quite a number of pages. First, we're going to try to figure out what kind of action we're going to take, and then we're going to explain the consequences of that, after the investigation manual. It's more my observation that I think the level of ambition for how fast we can do a lot of things, also sets limits for other things that the Storting has been concerned about that we're going to carry out, among other things. the examination of gender issues and regional policy impacts. And since I was involved in deciding to instruct a previous government to change the investigation instructions so that the regional policy effects would be taken into account, I remember the expectation at that time that the Storting should have better decision-making bases in relation to reforms. And then you don't have to take away that basis by setting short deadlines for the investigations. Then I have a question that I think is essential, and it is related to the example that I and also the representative Hagen used, namely the decision to do something about the family reunification rules. It is true that there are laws adopted here, and one has a legal relationship with the law decisions taken in the Storting, and it is the verbal decisions that are taken as a claim to the Government. Of course, it is a problem if we are to cut off any hearing, for example. on a legislative change, where the decisions of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg require it to be. Otherwise, in the matter in question, we had a thorough examination of what we were going to do from the Stockholm Chair. And there were no objections, except for the Progress Party, to the fact that we actually had to have a hearing at that time, and that we had to clarify the relationship with international conventions, because international conventions are above the Storting's request decision for a government. If we make a decision in Stortinget, for example: violates the European Convention on Human Rights, so that decision is de facto not valid as a regulatory activity by means of a regulation from us, because we have incorporated it in preference to the European Convention on Human Rights, and it takes precedence in these areas. That's why it's important to see that there are several areas where the Government and the Storting are missing, on which we have given authority to the judiciary through human rights legislation, and which therefore also makes it important that we see when we reach the boundaries against issues regulated in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e492	This will be a slight extension compared to what the State Council of Solberg has so far clarified. Now I noticed that in relation to this, with decisions by Stortinget and their implementation by the Government, the representative operated on Hagen with the concept of crystal clear decisions. Now, what's crystal clear can vary for each of us. What someone thinks is crystal clear, perhaps others of us may feel that there might be some more doubt about it. While it may seem from one perspective that once a decision has been taken, the consequences of the decision are also good to see, it may sometimes require a slightly more detailed assessment of certain aspects of a case without the need to go to a situation where what is the main element and the main substance of a decision is determined. What I want to highlight is that the Storting gives the Government and the administration instructions at different levels. And it's doubtful at the top level when the Storting gives instructions to the Government. It's actually through the law. In fact, in relation to the issue raised by the representative Hagen, I think that there is reason to recall that we do not only have an investigation manual – it is enough to a certain extent of a nature that allows it to be disregarded to a certain extent – but we also have a provision in the Administrative Act, namely Section 37, which says that regulations should be consulted before they can be adopted. In fact, there is an instruction on the part of the Biggest at a higher level than the individual decisions on how to behave, and is actually something that the Government also has an obligation to follow up. I would suggest that there are some proposals in the Storting which have been taken through decisions, which have sometimes been somewhat glad that there has been a subsequent investigation, which may have been involved in balancing aspects of the follow-up to a decision, thus preventing some of the results of what was good intentions, and which are mainly carried out as good intentions, when there has been some adjustment and balance to some other circumstances that have not been clearly noticed, and which have also been better for those who wanted the current decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e505	The issues relating to investment and the right to dissolve are important and interesting, but have such a loose connection with this matter that I do not see it particularly useful to pursue it and conduct the debate on the basis that we have before us in this matter. We'll have the opportunity to get back to that in a different context. Let me also say that although I share the football interest with other representatives in this room, I am not sure that this language usage with yellow and red cards is particularly suitable for finding out what the matter is about. It's like, if you're going to follow the analogy that Blackevik and Hagen have used, that on the football field, two yellow cards are automatically exchanged in a red. It's not that you can issue an unlimited number of yellow cards. When this is a little important, it's because our system is based on the assumption that either a State Council has the confidence of the Biggest, or a State Council does not have the confidence of the Biggest. It's not likely to have half trust, one-third trust, or one-third trust. It is the Storting itself who at any time answers yes or no, implicitly or explicitly, to that question. There is no rated trust. Nor can the size control this way by disapproving or passing. So to what I really asked for the floor, namely, the representative Hagen's reference to a concrete example in the committee position that I think is interesting, and that it is worth taking a little step further. Decision No 612 of 19 June 2003, referred to on page 9 of the Committee configuration. I understood the representative Hagen so that he mentioned the matter as an example of something which in some way invalidates the normal rules of the game that require investigation as a basis for law decisions or regulatory changes. At my discretion, the case is precisely appropriate as an example of how the Storting should not exercise its powers of instruction or legislative authority. In general, it is very little advisable to start with a decision and then ask for a premise for the decision. It is common both outside and in this room to ask for the premises first, and then draw the conclusion. And at my discretion, this case is a very good and warning example of how wrong it can be, when, on the grounds that it is urgent – and in this case this was the day before the Storting went apart – insists that this had to be done during the summer holidays. This is not how the Storting should act in the future. The intention behind the decision was certainly good, but it is a classic example of an hasty decision. And I'm really not sure that in any case it's such that there's a mitigating circumstance that the intention is good. For a legislator, it is rather an aggravating circumstance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e520	A little bit of the consequence of what Inge Wohnung now said, is that he is actually saying that the Storting has made a decision that is perhaps unwise, and perhaps foolish – and I fully accept that the Grandhold's Vice President believes that many decisions in the Storing are stupid and unwise, and I also mean; many of the decisions we vote against, I think are unwise. But I do not think for that reason that the Government should be given a position to review the decision of the Storting, or that the administration and the government should be given a role to review the decision of the Storting. That is what we are really discussing now. Once the Storting has made a decision, is there another body that should be able to say no, I do not think the decision taken by the Stortinget was particularly sensible, do we have to review this? Or should you say that there is no one – other than in the case of the people, at the next elections – who has that role? That's what's my point. When Stortinget gave an instruction in a decision to amend the foreign regulations § 23, I think the Government should do so. If someone says it's wrong, they say it's the Big City that's ordered us to do, and then you get to point to the majority in the Biggest. Then at least the government has carried out the Storting's will. That's what it didn't do here. If there are any problems with some conventions, you might have had a few weeks where this rule has been changed, and then there's a case. Then the government gets to go back to Stortinget and recommend the Stortinget to reverse the decision. And the reshaping of the potion decision was the potion president inside; it's supposed to be in the form that the Stortinge's decision of date is lifted like that. The only way to formally repeal a decision is through a decision to repeal the old decision. And that's completely possible. The only damage would then have been that some cases might have appeared, and then one really had placed responsibility in the Storting, with the majority, who might have just done what Inge Wage wants: tightened up and been more careful on later occasions. I will insist that when the Stortinget has made a change to the foreign regulations § 23, it was relatively clear. No one has disputed. But it's not done. I think the government should have done it. And when Harald Hove talks about Section 37 of the Administrative Act, he forgot point c, of course. It states that prior warning may be omitted in so far as it ‘must be considered clearly unnecessary’. Once the Storting has taken a decision, it is clearly unnecessary to send something to the hearing. If the majority has decided that's how we want it, and we're not going to be influenced by any views from anyone, the whole consultation is gone. After all, a hearing is designed to influence those who make a decision, before the decision is taken – not after it has been taken. And I'm sure that's not the document, the hearing and the investigation in any area that could affect Harald Hoves' position on whether Norway should become a member of the EU. Because that's where he's made up his mind. And if there was a majority who in one case had decided in this room, the entire consultation basis is gone. So it's within the administration law not to have things to consult when the Stortinget – the final decision-making body – has made its decision. Then it doesn't come in as any obstacle at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e533	I believe that this last round between the Council of State and the representative Hagen – and it also includes the representatives of Hove and Wohnning – clearly shows that when the Stortinget takes a decision on instructions, the question should be so well resolved that it is convinced that it can be implemented. I think this debate, with all due clarity, shows – and it also shows the comments made on this proposal, where the Labour Party has chosen not to take part in either the criticism or the blessing – that this was a decision, I must admit, even though the Labour Party may have been involved in this, which was precisely designed, but did not have all the consequences that one should necessarily have before such a decision was taken. On the other hand, I believe it is quite obvious that in such cases, when such a case is being prepared in the Committee, the Government must explain to the Enlargement the consequences of this, and then give the Storting an option. I am not so sure that it is well-practiced, as both government and big business are working today. A minority government will be careful to press the Storting on what they consider to be small things, in order to avoid creating a level of conflict that prevents cooperation around major issues. I can understand that. But in the ultimate sense, this could mean that the Stortinget takes decisions that the population believes can be implemented and that are not implemented. It weakens the confidence in politics. Therefore, my conclusion to this, without necessarily going into the different interpretations of this decision, is that here both the magnificence and the government must work on the issue in order to avoid that this continues in such a way that we really destroy not only the agency of the Great Britain but also the confidence in politics and the political system. I'm going to try to help that happen, and I understand that other people want that too. Then I do not agree with the representative's salary when he says that the issue of investment and constitutional change in relation to the right of dissolution does not matter in this context. Well, in fact, I think it has something to mean, basically, this is about the power relationship between greatness and government and how the Government and the Storing have the ability to practice and exercise their power. I believe that an investment and an opportunity for the Government to dissolve the Storting if the parliamentary basis for the formation of the Government breaks down will actually help to recognise that the rules of play that exist should be followed, otherwise the consequence could be a new choice. Then I have to say that I agree with Hagen in part that the Stortinget cannot live with the fact that, year after year, we only hand out so-called yellow cards and warnings in relation to the cancellation messages about the request and investigation decisions that have been made. That is why I ask the members of the Government to be very attentive to the critical remarks made in this committee position. We expect that this will be answered, either in our own cases to the Stortinget or when the Stortinget next year will have a follow-up to the new request and investigation decisions, and will follow up on what has happened to the comments we made this year, because it is quite clear that the Stortinget has to take the consequences of its criticism if the Government does not comply with the requirements of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e553	The representative of the salary has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e556	There is no disagreement between the prime investor and me regarding the assessment of the importance of investment and resolution. My comment was that if we are to hold that debate, we need a different basis than a committee position which, after all, does not concern it, because this is the basis for assessing constitutional changes. I asked for the floor to give a brief comment to the representative Hagen's response regarding the assessment of Decision No. 612. That kind of confused me a little bit, because it's actually in conflict with what Hagen himself has been agreeing to write into the committee setting. For the criticism addressed in the committee position, only a criticism is that the government has been too late to implement the consultation round, i.e. it is assumed that a consultation round would have to be conducted if I read it correctly. So here I think the local memory must have played Hagen a little kiss.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e563	I just want to say something about the particular matter we have discussed – indirectly as an example of the principle issue. It was an extraordinary matter in relation to Stortinget. It was treated for less than 10 days in Stortinget. The department was asked to comment on the matter. We had less than 48 hours to give an opinion on the matter, and we then recommended that the question be further investigated before a final decision was reached. When a unanimous decision was taken to reach that decision, it was also stated clearly in the debate that it was a premise that it was to be a hearing, and that we had to take a round on human rights issues. Now we have carried out the hearing, and we are preparing to return to Stortinget with the follow-up to that case in connection with the fact that we come up with matters related to the Foreign Affairs Act relatively quickly. It will either be reported back that what has been adopted will be implemented or that it will be reported what changes need to be made in order to implement what is the intention of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e570	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2219]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e585	Since the instructions are so closely related to the law to be discussed at Odelstinget tonight – not only closely related to it, it is derived from the law – we have suggested in the Committee's previous discussion that the debate on the substance of the matter be taken into account in the proceedings. There is a call for us to take the debate. Of course, I can't stop anyone who wants to say something right now from doing that, but there's a call from the Committee on that and a common understanding of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e592	We follow the call from the rapporteur to take the debate at the meeting of Odelsting, but I formally put forward the proposal that comes from us in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e597	The representative, Mr Red, has put forward the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2219]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e621	In this case there are several case rapporteurs, but I want to take a general review of the Committee's position. In accordance with the Constitutional Act § 75k, the Riksrevision submitted to the Stortinget annotations containing replies and proposals for the dissociation of the Norwegian government accounts and the accounts for the administration of Svalbard together with extracts of the accounts for 2002. There are a total of 20 cases, 15 notes and five cases for information. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Culture and the Church, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy have not addressed any issues. These can then in many ways be considered to be the most attractive departments in the class. A majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left, asks the Riksrevision to assess whether Document No. 1, which we are now dealing with, can be expanded with further information, for example: information on the funds allocated has been used for purposes envisaged by the Storting, on the consistency of resources with the tasks assigned and on the achievement of the objectives adopted. We are aware that some of this can be assessed in the management audit reports that we receive on an ongoing basis, but in Document No. 1 we have more possibilities to evaluate the whole. An overall committee indicates that a total of six activities have not received the approval of the accounts by the National Audit Office and that a total of four of them are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Research. I see that the Minister of Education is not here, but I assume she's noticed this. That so many businesses have not received the approval of the National Audit Office represents a backward step in relation to previous years' accounts. The Committee acknowledges the work undertaken by both the Norwegian Veterinary College and the Directorate-General for Taxation in relation to previously identified errors and deficiencies, which led to the failure of previous accounts being approved, as they were for 2002. This, in our opinion, shows the meaning of Document 1 and the accounting audit and will continue. Errors and shortcomings related to the acquisition activity in the country are also a theme in this report. I say ‘also in this report’ because this has been a repetition over several years. The Committee therefore takes this seriously and expects it to be cleaned up. Acquisition activities are the management of Community resources. An overall committee believes that satisfactory procedures and competences need to be established in order to follow up the legislation. The Committee points out that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade has provided an overview of the status of actions undertaken to follow up the guidelines. The Committee asks that the Stortinge should be briefed on how this work is going. It underlines how seriously we look at this. The National Audit Office points to the failure of internal control in several establishments. The Committee calls on the departments of trade unions to focus on improvement measures in their governance dialogue, not least because internal control work is important for the prevention of maladministration and the reduction of the risk of errors and deficiencies in the accounts. In this opinion, the Committee notes the concerns raised by the Committee regarding the State legislation on representation during the autumn. An overall committee indicates that the Prime Minister, by letter to the Committee, has made clarifications and legislative changes, including clarifications on the concept of representation. A majority, the Labour Party and the Government Parties, assume that the Riksrevision generally controls the enforcement of the Representation Code by the Ministries, while a minority, the Progress Party and the SV, believe that the Prime Minister’s preparation implies a tightening of the past practice of the Ministry of Labour and Administration — in other words, a hanger on the cat. The minority assumes that the Riksrevision checks that the enforcement of the legislation is and has been in line with the clarifications made. In some specific cases, the majority, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left have changed the Riksrevision's proposal for a ‘Can Pass’ decision, which, of course, implies criticism – cannot pass – to ‘To Observation’, which implies that the Riksrevision must have practice for observation, or that the Riksrevision must look further on questions of principle raised. This also means that the matter comes back to Stortinget, where it can be pursued further by Stortinget. This applies, inter alia, to: financing of a new laboratory at the State Institute for Consumer Research. An overall committee finds the ministry's procedure critical and not in line with the legislation. The majority refers to the fact that the financial instrument has imposed commitments on the State far beyond my current budget. The agreement with the lessor is to be understood as a credit purchase agreement without the basis of the Appropriations Regulation or a separate decision of the Stortinget. The majority find it unacceptable that dispositions are carried out without full clarification of financial conditions. An overall committee requires the Ministry to take action to amend the agreement in line with the legislation, and the majority will have the matter back by amending the proposal for a decision. The national audit has revealed a number of issues that are not in line with the good accounting and financial management of the Consumer Ombudsman. The national audit refers to weaknesses in internal control and cannot approve the accounts. A joint committee joins the Riksrevision's criticism and proposal for a decision. The Committee agrees with the criticism of a number of — I stress a series of — matters under the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence and finds it unfortunate that the Court of Auditors' references from previous years have not been followed up in 2002. The defence accounts have significant deficiencies in the areas of wages, salaries, acquisitions, consulting services and stocks. Violations of overtime provisions have been detected in the Working Environment Act, breaches of public service legislation, widespread use of options for the purchase of consultancy services and deficiencies in the disposal of return and surplus material from closed departments. The Ministry of Defence is also criticised for failing to comply with existing laws and regulations on public procurement. The criticism includes the use of amending and supplemental agreements without being included in the original competitive basis, and significant amounts have been paid without being formalised by agreements. The Committee agrees with the criticism. The Ministry has now drawn up an action plan to follow up the National Audit Office’s observations. The majority will change the dissociation form to «To observation». That means you share the criticism, but this is so extensive that you want to have that form of desiccation. In this way, Stortinget gets the case back and can monitor that the action plan is being followed up. The National Audit Board has not approved the accounts of the Patent Board for 2002. The Committee has noted that shortcomings in the accounts of the Patent Board were identified throughout the years 1997 to 2002. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade regrets in a letter to the National Audit Office that there has not been a full clean-up in the past, but one is now deploying resources to improve the situation. The Committee endorses the form of the delegation ‘May pass’, which implies criticism. The National Audit Office also points to shortcomings in the internal data security of the Brønn Island Health Registers. The citizens of the country are required to notify the registers, and the Committee therefore considers that the internal data security of the registers has not been given the highest priority, critical. This work has now progressed and the Committee assumes that the timetable for its work is respected. The National Audit Board has pointed out that no guidelines have been drawn up on how the Accounting Act is to be applied to the State Banking Investment Fund and that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has not drawn up instructions for the management and follow-up tasks of the Ministry towards the Fund. The Committee has noted that there have been discussions as to whether or not the State Banking Investment Fund should be regarded as a management body. The Ministry of Justice considers that the Fund is an administrative body and is consequently required to comply with the Public Health Act. The Committee assumes that this understanding will also be understood by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The National Audit Service criticises the Railway Agency for contributing to a significant financial responsibility for the State without the consent of the Storting through the company BaneService Projekt A/S. This project, which was to take care of the railway company's entrepreneurial activities in Sweden and Denmark, is now under closure, and the financial loss for the state seems to be a total of 18 million. kr. The Committee shares the criticism of the Riksrevision, but the majority formulates a stronger criticism than the government parties. The National Audit Office’s review of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ management of various grants has shown significant weaknesses in its procedures and practices. This is partly repeaters. The Committee shares the criticism. The Ministry reports that work is in progress to improve the situation. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Riksrevision will follow up its work on improving the procedures of the ongoing review. As in the previous case, when we discussed the request decisions, we assume that the Councils are responsive to the criticism that has arisen and that the situation will be corrected. I also refer to the vote and the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e674	I refer to the statements made by the committee leader and I would like to stress the importance of the fact that, for the future, the national accounts contain information about our common assets, that is. roads, buildings, etc., so that the costs of maintaining or maintaining this capital are made visible. This is important and necessary information for Stortinget. Furthermore, it is also of great importance to clarify whether funds are actually used for the purposes provided for by the Storting. Such a performance audit will give the Storting a completely different opportunity than today to follow the evolution of the relationship between appropriations and results. In the context of the extraction of Norway's national accounts, the Workers' Party has, for its part, been primarily responsible for certain areas and certain departments. It is thus distributed within the Committee. But this does not mean that one has not also entered some of the other areas, of course. The Committee has commented on some areas of the Riksrevision report. In other areas, the Committee says little or nothing and has joined in what the Riksrevision has pointed out. A few of the main points of the comments are, among other things, that the Riksrevision finds that the transfer and establishment of a new laboratory at SIFO was carried out without the necessary appropriations from Stortinget. In fact, we are making a position here that is contrary to Section 4 of the Financial Regulation, which requires completeness and realism. This cannot, of course, be acceptable, and that is, I do not think it is right to argue here on the part of the government parties that small amounts are involved. I think you have to have a different and more principleal approach to the kind of misappropriation done here. For my part, I am pleased that the majority here is in favour of changing the proposal for a form of desiccation from ‘Can pass’ to ‘For observation’. The Consumer Ombudsman also mentioned the committee manager, and I will not spend any more time on it. Defence is mentioned in several areas in this report. The defence has been in the process of almost constant and continuous reorganisation and restructuring over time. There are quite enormous resources to establish systems to ensure that important aspects of management such as wages, purchases, use of consulting services, material management, etc. shall operate in a satisfactory manner. So far, this hasn't come into place, obviously. The National Audit Office has had to point to a number of errors and deficiencies, which in turn have led to very critical comments from an overall committee. When the audit includes, inter alia: find errors in accounting, breaches of certain legal provisions and non-systems to ensure that the acquisition and purchase of consultancy services is in line with existing legislation, this is very serious. A prerequisite for law and regulation in general to have general respect and understanding in society is that the State itself is able to enforce these provisions and do so with embarrassing accuracy. Errors and shortcomings in government accounts therefore send out very unfortunate signals to society, and it is particularly unfortunate if political leadership is to defend the shortcomings that are revealed. The Minister of Defense has not done that. On the contrary, she has stated that in the case of reporting and documentation procedures, intensifications are to be carried out. So it's quite obvious that the department's management sees that things have to be done here, here things have to be tightened up. When the majority now proposes to change the form of dissent from the National Audit Office’s proposal on ‘Can Pass’ to ‘To Observation’, there is a logical consequence of both the critical comments of a Joint Committee and the action announced by the Minister of Defence to correct the errors and shortcomings identified by the National Audit Office. The majority of the population sees the need for feedback for later financial years in order to obtain confirmation that they will now take action by the Minister of Defence, with the desired results. The Committee has chosen not to make its own comments in relation to the Ministry of Justice, but I would nevertheless like to say a few words about this. The Ministry of Justice and the Oslo Police District are strongly criticised for violations of procurement legislation. The fact that there is a course of action by the law’s law enforcement officers set up by the National Audit Office should be an incentive for the management of this department as well. The data security of the Brønnøysund registers was the head of the committee, and I shall not say anything more about it, except that it is astonishing and I would say far from satisfactory that this institution does not have the systems in place. Finally, I find reason to say a few words about the railway works and the formation of the BaneService Projekt AS. It's, I think, a remarkable thing that's happened. Choosing the form of a public limited liability company is an important part of the purpose behind this, among other things. to reduce the risk. The fact that you actually get into a situation where you sign a declaration that you have «the company will not claim its trade liability until the other creditors have been satisfied»; conflicts with all reasonable rules of the game in this system. So in the next round you have a loss of approx. Eighteen million. kr for the company. This does not contribute to the strengthening of confidence in the Railway Agency and in its administration around it. In this context, the working party is in doubt of the Riksrevision's proposal for a decision, 'Can pass'.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e705	In this position, under the general remarks section of the Committee of the Regions, the majority of the Committee of the Regions is asked to consider whether it might be appropriate to extend Document No. 1 with additional information. I am pleased that the question is asked, and that it is not conclusive in its form. The majority say, among other things: e.g. could be information as to whether the funds actually granted have been used for the purposes for which the size was intended. I am of the opinion that this issue is already well cared for and subject to thorough control through the work of the National Audit Office, presented both in Document No. 1 and in Document No The 3-series. It would therefore have been useful if the Chairman of the Committee, who was involved in this at the outset, could clarify what information is desirable, how this is lacking in current control, or whether there is a gap in the information availability of the Storting today. The majority’s wish for an assessment is in many ways directly at the heart of the administrative audit and the definition that we have adopted, which is based on current practice, and which will be used tonight when we start legal proceedings. Therefore, I feel that this can in some way be a little unsolved if there is doubt as to what the Storting actually puts into the concept of ‘management audit’ and how it should be defined. That is why I would have appreciated the Committee's chairman being able to clarify this for us. Furthermore, the same majority believe that it may be appropriate to extend Document No. 1 with information on the consistency of resources and assigned tasks and an assessment of the realism of budgeting. I assume that the chairman of the Committee does not believe that the Riksrevision should conduct political review. In the past, both in the Stortinget and the Riksrevision itself, it has been assumed that the Riksrevision should not do so under any circumstances. The issue of consistency between resources and assigned tasks is often highly controversial and may appear to be a difficult revision criterion. I have almost benefited from the experience that in an area of activity or in a specifically revised activity, resources have ever been shown to be sufficient to perform the tasks assigned. On this basis, such an audit criterion could almost be invited to an audit of a purely political nature. Therefore, the majority’s comment may be appropriate to create misunderstandings as to the control criteria on which the Grand Duchy’s work is based. I would have appreciated if the chairman of the committee could also give a clarification and clarification of the intention of the comment, so that this does not appear unclear in the future. The Committee's position shows that there is disagreement within the Committee as regards the Riksrevision position of the Riksrevision regarding the accounts of the Defence and Defence Agency for 2002. While members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People's Party argue that the Riksrevision's position of resignation is that the case can pass, the majority amends it to 'For observation'. There is no reason to dramatize this, nor after hearing the speeches from the previous speakers. But I would like to point out that it seems quite special when the Riksrevision for the first time in ten years, or for the first time during the period of the last six responsible defence ministers, concludes with no – so zero – notes «To observation» within the Defence. So, based on the Riksrevision's own assessments, this is a clear improvement in this area. In this context, the majority consider it necessary to depart from the Riksrevision conclusion in a sharper direction. I find this strange, and I have trouble seeing which principal questions you want to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e720	I'm not going to go into an outline of all the individual elements that several of the previous speakers, including the case rapporteur, have been in, I just want to inform you at the outset that where the majority of the committee is tightening the form of dissent, the Progress Party is in the majority. So we're involved in highlighting the importance of the follow-up at these points being very strong and clear. What I want to go a little bit more generally into is essentially three areas that I think this document gives reason to go into. The first field is this with the rules for public acquisitions. The national audit has revealed failures in the procedures of public procurement in several areas, including in several of the areas which the Committee has chosen not to comment on specifically in the submission, because this has been so fully mentioned in the general remarks initially. There are in particular three points that point in the negative direction, within the Defence, Defence and Oslo police districts, to which the representative Mr Engebretsen correctly explained. They stand out in a negative direction in the current revision. The State, with its various activities, is a very significant customer in several areas. It is therefore very important to have a regulatory framework for public acquisitions that is complied with. This is of course important because, through tendering procedures, the State will reduce the public expenditure by ordering those who can offer a good or service at the most favourable price. This will save society and taxpayers from large amounts, which can be used for other good purposes or for tax relief. But there's also another aspect of this that I think is very important. If public enterprises purchase goods and services without control, they will be able to enter into a system that facilitates their assignment to the State with dishonest purposes and methods. If purchased outside the regulatory framework, the system will facilitate the establishment of systems based on lubrication and camaraderie. In the view of the Progress Party, such a strong fight must be waged, and it is therefore critical and regrettable that the Stortinget is repeatedly faced with cases which show that the rules on public procurement are not being complied with. From the Progress Party we assume that the Government is now following this point very closely. The other area that we have identified in this setting concerns the internal control of the various enterprises. Of course, internal control is very important in order to reduce errors in the accounts and to avert the possibilities of maladministration. In the light of the financial statements, many decisions are also taken, and it is therefore important that this is as accurate as possible. This is therefore a field that we believe must be given much greater priority. The third field is a somewhat more specific field, which we've wanted to focus on, and that's what the legislation is available for appreciation and representation. It's also mentioned in the setting. This case was known to have increased the timeliness last year, because it was revealed that a former State Council in the Ministry of Labour and Administration had shown something, we shall call it, easily deal with this regulation. It is obvious that the breaches that were revealed in that case, in the broad context of course, are to be regarded as a sausage during the slaughter period, but in my opinion that matter does not make the matter less serious for that reason. What is the main point is that leaders who are set to control and ensure that those who are part of an organisation are in line with the legislation, also have to deal with the legislation they are set to enforce. If you don't, these rules won't get any legitimacy down in government. That would be very unfortunate in our view. You can imagine what conditions you could experience if all the heads of government and other public levels were to run around with their own free and unlimited representation account. I think that's a system that we don't want. That's why it's important that this point be focused and you start at the top. We in the Progress Party are therefore of the opinion that the Riksrevision should go more into and control this field, and believe that the Riksrevision should go in and verify that the practice is and has been in line with what appears in letters to the Committee of the Prime Minister dated 27 January 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e739	I was challenged to do a clarification. I believe that I had prepared this in my post. We believe that it would have been interesting about the Riksrevision, which we are asking for, considering extending the information, and we have made it clear in a majority comment what information we are asking for – and that information I think should be of interest to more people. I said in my post that some of this information can be obtained through the administrative audit. However, by also obtaining further information in Document No. 1 can see the field in a larger whole and have opportunities to get information more often. Then I was challenged on this with the Riksrevision criteria. My answer is that how the Riksrevision carries out its business, it is up to the Riksrevision to assess and not to assess the Stortinget. Then it is right that the issue of consistency between resources and the tasks assigned may be of a political nature. The national audit shall not conduct political audits. But it is also, in many cases, a clear and clear one, and not of a political nature, a lack of consistency between resources and tasks assigned to it. Then there is an opportunity for Stortinget to grab hold of it and correct the course. And I want to make it clear once again that there's a majority behind these assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e750	Sometimes, and especially in the media, it is produced as if the Riksrevision were the main enemy of the various departments. I really want to say the opposite. I think it's one of the most important tools that every government council has, in the absence of its own control apparatus, which works according to neutral principles, to keep track of the different parts of the ministry's field of activity functioning according to its intention. It is particularly important for departments with large external levels. It does not always have to be such that the criticism of the Riksrevision needs to be seen as a criticism of the inability of each State Council to make decisions, but is in many ways a system critique, which, for the various departments, can help to facilitate the development of internal control procedures that are able to capture this in a different way in the future. That is why, in my view, this document is not a document that targets the individual Council of State and the individual Council of State, but very much against the systems. Then, in my opinion, there is no doubt that the Government has an obligation to inform the Storting through budgetary work about the consequences of the different choices and priorities being made. To be honest, I am not able to see that the Riksrevision is investigating whether there is consistency between resources and assigned tasks necessarily need to be an audit of a political nature – rather the opposite. Firstly, I can never imagine that the Riksrevision would come in such a situation that they take political considerations into account. But the Riksrevision has, at least as long as I've known the Riksrevision, been very careful to deal with it at any time, a majority of the Stortinge, and the decisions of the majority of the Storinge have taken. I feel convinced – but it is my subjective opinion – that there are some departments that are assigned tasks far beyond their ability to implement them based on the resources at their disposal. I believe that for the Norwegian people and for the administration as such, it would make sense to get feedback on this, both for the individual departments, perhaps especially for use at the budgetary conferences, and for the Stortinges to deal with the various issues. In particular, in recent years, the size has been involved in supervisory activities in relation to child protection, in the fight against drug abuse and in the supervisory tasks of the county. Still, it is my subjective opinion, but I believe that the resources that the county council has are far from sufficient to enable the county councillors and county councillors to carry out the supervisory tasks they are entrusted with. But has Stortinget ever been given a basis for a discussion about this? Never. That's why it's just learning about tasks in relation to the political situation and ambitions. I think it should be interesting for the Stortinget – and this is not of a purely party political nature – to get an overview of later on whether the letters of assignment given by the Ministry of Labour and Administration to the county officials are consistent with the tasks assigned to them and the resources made available. Then we could get a sensible discussion in Stortinget about how society's resources were managed, and how we were able to care for the interests of the weakest in society, who need the functioning of society's supervisory authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e761	I particularly agree with the representative of Jørgen Kosmo on one point: the Riksrevision is not the enemy of the departments. This is especially true of those departments that actually do something, because the National Audit Office's feedback is exactly what motivates us, when we've done something that gives us an improvement. My goal as Minister of Defence has been quite clear: to get no issues 'For observation' from the Riksrevision. It was possible for the defence to be achieved in 2002, for the first time in at least 13 years. And the good result is precisely due to excellent cooperation – probably better than ever – between the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Defence and the Defence. We want to get better, and that's what the National Auditorate is helping us to stay. Today’s debate concerns the state accounts for 2002 — the first full year of the Cooperative Government. Of course, I will follow up the points made, and concrete measures have been put in place and new ones will be implemented. The position we are discussing today will not in itself have a direct impact on the 2003 financial statements, as it was concluded almost three months ago. However, the setting is an important contribution to the further follow-up of the areas affected, and I have nothing against the same close, open and good dialogue with the Stortinget and the Stortingen Control Committee that we have with the Riksrevision. In order to better monitor matters from the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Defence has established a separate action plan. This action plan is a ‘living’ and rolling document, and the defence management and the ministry have a close dialogue on the plan and matters that the National Audit Office always addresses. In addition, the audit action plan is addressed directly in the annual letters of implementation from me to the head of defence. I would like to put the measures for better financial management of the defence into a wider context. The main measure is the Programme Golf, to which the Stortinget has agreed and which will be debated later today. The aim of this programme, the Programme Golf, is to ensure that the accounting system of the Defence shall comply with the requirements of the State Financial Regulation. It has not been possible in the past. This objective is overall other economic objectives, and this work affects the other areas in which the National Audit Office is committed. Therefore, as part of the Programme Golf, the Defence put in place both a new accounting system and a new account plan in November 2003. These two actions together provide better financial management and provide the basis for avoiding unnecessary observations from the National Audit Office in the long term. However, anyone who has introduced new accounting systems knows that transitional problems always arise, especially in the middle of a financial year. We also got that in the defense. The change in the accounting system in November 2003 caused temporary problems in areas such as reconciliation, traceability and pay-out. Such temporary problems arise as a result of addressing the main challenges, namely a new accounting system and a new account plan. In other words, such system changes cause some temporary problems for the defence, which we then have to solve with manual handling and through the challenges for the National Audit Office afterwards. However, such transitional problems can be solved. The overall objective of meeting the requirements of the State Financial Regulation and improving financial management is firm. Then follow up the challenges that arise around the system change, and we do that in turn. The Court of Auditors' observations for 2002 relate to the areas of remuneration, acquisitions in the FLO, purchase of consultancy services, stocks and acquisitions in Defence Buildings. All areas have been followed up, including, inter alia: the following measures: In the case of wages and salaries, there are procedures in place to track the payments made to those charged overtime or additional work. In addition, in October 2003, the Defence Manager requested the repayment of overtime payments in 2002 beyond the approved 300-hour limit for executive staff and the signal effect of the action is expected to be significant. In the case of acquisitions by the Defence Logistics Organisation, an update of the Code of Acquisition of Defence is being carried out. In addition, the Ministry of Defence is now consulting a new concept of investment management, including a total audit of procurement rules and procedures, and the system is to be implemented during 2004. As regards the purchase of consultancy services, the requirements have been tightened up in 2003. The results have already been achieved in the 2003 financial year, where consumption has fallen sharply, from around 2 %. 580 million. SEK in consultancy in 2002 to 363 million. kr in 2003. The new 2004 account plan improved in addition to the accounting for this type of service. In the case of warehousing, all the 1,650 containers mentioned by the Riksrevision are split and accounted for, with the exception of 156. Work is now in progress on closing the last containers. As far as acquisitions of defence buildings are concerned, new electronic quality assurance systems containing rules and procedures for public acquisitions are in place. Training in public acquisitions for current personnel has also been completed. I think it was useful to mention some of the measures that have just been taken due to the control of the National Audit Office. Of course, I have no objection that this kind of feedback can also be given to Stortinget, then in a formal document. The Supervisory and Constituent Committee has changed the form of dissociation for two matters of the Ministry of Defence. I can assure you that I will follow up the critical remarks made in the areas I have just considered. Substantial economic reforms were carried out in the Defence, above all the Programme Golf, in order to meet the requirements of the State’s Financial Regulation as soon as it is technically possible. We have therefore had extensive work on the change of the new accounting system in the Defence and the preparation of a new Defence Account Plan in 2003. In addition, we have established a completely new Defence Accounting Unit in Bergen in 2003 and the Defence's new pay unit in Harstad in 2002. What we've done represents an extensive system change, with of course associated challenges during the run-in period. In the long term, however, the conversions, together with the National Audit Action Plan and the letters of implementation of the relevant Heads of State or Government, will ensure that we have a continuous and good follow-up to the conditions of the National Audit Office at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e800	The next speaker is Martin Engeset. Anxiety has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. The President will be corrected here. I'm reading the list of my predecessors. She must have thought a lot about Martin Engeset.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e803	There is probably no danger that I will need to take the word several times in this case, but otherwise we will have several cases later in the day. I asked for the floor because the round that I invited in relation to the majority comments was clearly needed. I do not think the chairman of the committee brought the confusion much lower than the wording of the setting opened for. The chairman of the committee didn't do much other than read from the setting at that point, and we had basically read about it. However, the problem in relation to consistency between resources and tasks is a rather difficult issue. I think the representative Kosmo in his post at least put more words on what they were looking for in relation to that remark. What was my concern was that I think this topic, these desires and needs, are well cared for by the systems we already have, and that the note can invite to misunderstandings and ambiguity in relation to what is the Grandfather's mission to the Riksrevision. It's reasonably clearly defined already by the definition we've given of the administrative audit as such. Otherwise, I will take up the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party, which is included in the setting on page 14, which reads: «The statements of the State accounts for 2002 concerned: Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, Case 1 Ministry of Defence, Cases 1 and 2 were decidated in accordance with the report of the National Audit Office.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e824	The representative Martin Engeset has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2222]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e842	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2223]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e858	Over the last 10 years, large parts of government have been released and separated from businesses and companies. This has been a development for which there has been a partial political consensus and for some companies political disagreement. Clearly, it is part of the reorganisation of public activities in order to adapt them to modern times. From 2001 to 2002, there is an increase in the number of companies released in eight. As far as I have an overview of the documents submitted, we now have 34 wholly owned companies and 37 jointly owned companies, five regional health companies, six companies organised by separate law and 26 student partnerships. It is these establishments that form the basis for the Riksrevisions Document No. 3:2 for 2003-2004, on the management of State interests in companies, banks, etc. for 2002. A prerequisite for the release of State activities has been that it is not necessary to weaken the ability of the Grand Duchy and the National Audit Office to exercise control, in many ways, the ability of society to control those activities in order to safeguard the social interests they are set to manage. Although new bodies are set up outside the traditional management system, this should not lead to a reduction in the importance of performing important societal tasks for the benefit of the community. It can't be the way to change the form of a company in order to evade the transparency of society. Transparency, transparency and control must underpin any public activity, while retaining the responsibilities of the Storting for overall governance. At the same time, we need to be aware that some of these establishments are engaged in commercial activities where it would clearly be unfavourable if control led to a significant deterioration in the financial interests of the company as a basis for control. However, this is a balance that I think the National Auditorate is doing well to adapt in an excellent way. What needs to be checked and how to carry out the check, we are gradually starting to establish procedures. According to the Riksaudition, the objective of audit control is to take a position on whether the Council of State has exercised its role of managing the State’s interests in companies, banks, etc. in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. This involves an examination of whether the Council of State uses its influence in the activities to follow up the assumptions set out in the Storting's proposals, communications, etc., and whether the administration is financially sound and in accordance with applicable laws. The Frøiland Committee, with the agreement of an overall Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, went further than this and indicated that: «in many areas, however, companies also have important tasks related to wider societal interests, sectoral policies, etc. Such tasks may be assigned on the basis of the management of natural resources, or access to important common resources such as infrastructure and good service provision In these cases, both business and sectoral policy objectives will be central to companies’.» [[e.g. in the transport and cultural sectors]] The views expressed by the Frøiland Committee were followed up by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which stressed that other tasks imposed on companies by the Storting should also be assessed in the context of company control. I have noticed with satisfaction that the Riksrevision in the present document has taken over the signals of the Storting and to a greater extent than before has assessed the follow-up of non-economic steering signals by the Council of State. I think that's good. Also in 2002, a number of establishments, such as health businesses, Posten, etc., have breached national public procurement legislation. This is very regrettable. It must be possible to make the various establishments comply with the rules of the game laid down. Actually, I do not understand that it should be so difficult for individual business managers to take this responsibility. It can't be due to lack of knowledge and information, and since there are good people, it can't be due to lack of leadership. This must be due to a lack of interest in putting the search light on the problem in their organisation. I hope that eventually gets better. As can be seen from the setting, there has been a need to make specific comments on some of the chapters. I'm not going to repeat these, but pay attention to some comments. As far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, the conversion and construction period in which health care establishments have been involved has been taken into account, but there are several of the provisions of the National Audit Office outside acceptable limits. This is primarily the case with the code practice in Health Sør, where it was actually suggested that the medical coding in the project should be directly linked to performance-dependent compensation. Such a ‘creative coding’ is highly questionable and could weaken confidence in both input-driven funding as a funding system and in the public health system. I am also surprised at the department's assessment of its own position in relation to health businesses. When the Ministry of Health in its reply to the National Audit Office discloses that it has no group management position for the five regional health companies and therefore cannot provide a directive on annual reporting, it is, in my view, completely wrong. I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports the Riksrevision that the Ministry can impose conditions under the second paragraph of Section 16 of the Health Business Act, for example. on reporting, on the appropriations. It was supposed to be missing, too. I assume that at the next crossroads we are presented for comparable figures from all five health companies. In several departments, we have seen that there have been trends in mixing roles. This question of mixing roles is a topic we meet in many contexts. From my point of view, I would like to stress the general unfortunate fact that employees of a department or other government body that manages the interests of the State in a company engaged in business are directly represented on the board of directors of the company. Use of board members for consular talks, etc. in the case of companies for which they are members of the Board of Directors – such as Norfund – which is within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – is, in my view, unacceptable and should be brought to an end without delay. I assume that a review will be carried out in line with the guidelines in the State Staff Manual and that all the departments will practice a restrictive line on these issues. I would like to remind you that the background to the separation of Entra Eiendom AS from Stadsbyggen was that a clearer distinction was sought between the competitive part of the property market and the pure buildings. This was the Storting's clear premise, and it was also assumed that the Storting should be informed if there were significant changes in the premises of the companies. As time has passed, this distinction between the two actors in practice has become, as I understand it, rather unclear. It is therefore necessary, as the committee majority does, to ask for a separate case for the Storting for the functional distribution. For my part, I would like to add that it would be problematic if Entra Eiendom, as a company that is responsible for the interests of the state to provide good office premises and functional building to its different units, became a giant operator in the private market. With the portfolio of Entra Eiendom as a state company, they will be an unnecessarily large market player in the private market if no clear guidelines are drawn up for the distinction between Statsbyggen and Entra Eiendom and the private market. The last point I want to say a little bit about is Norfund's involvement in Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS. This company must invest in the energy sector in developing countries. As the Riksrevision points out, there are clear limitations on the proportion of the risk capital of a company Norfund, which is usually not more than 35 pst. and under no circumstances above 49 pst. This is clear from the instructions, as shown by the majority of the observations. In my opinion, attempts by the ministry and others to explain that the instructions will also apply in this case seem unlikely. As far as I can see, there is nothing to say that funds for so-called strategic investments are exempt from the instructions. A briefing in addition to the answers given to the Riksrevision from the Ministry at this point is therefore, in my opinion, in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e893	As the rapporteur, Mr Kosmo, has experienced a development in recent years in which the state and Norway manage a substantial proportion of the resources through different companies and companies. For 2002, as this report takes account of, it is apparent that the State has a share capital in whole-time and leased-in companies of approx. $65 billion, and the real values of these companies are, of course, far higher than this. As we see it, it is therefore very important that the management of the state's interests in these companies be carried out in the best possible way. It is the Council of State which has essentially direct ownership and represents the State of the supreme bodies, the governing bodies of the various establishments. I therefore think it is good for the Stortinget to have the opportunity that this report gives to go through and check whether the councils follow up on the interests of the Stortinge and the intentions and decisions of the Stortinge in the best possible way. The review presented here by the Riksrevision shows that there is a potential for improvement in a number of establishments. I'm going to take a couple of businesses that we from our side think are particularly interesting. This applies primarily to health enterprises, which are located below the Ministry of Health. In a previous debate here today, we have also been involved in the regulation of public acquisitions. Also in this report we see examples that those things are not in place. It's starting to become a lot of things, and I can't stress enough the importance of focusing on this in the future. This report reveals that all five health establishments have breached the legislation. We're serious about that, and we're once again surprised that the department is not able to implement a follow-up to these things that are enough for the Stortinge to avoid being presented with the kind of reports that we're talking about here. In the accounting area of health enterprises there are also gaps. As the rapporteur also pointed out, the fact that there are comparable conditions is that a standardised reporting system exists, such as: can compare the effectiveness and performance of the various health establishments, centrally to be put in place. Another business that I have also noticed is under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, and it is Entra Eiendom. The report reveals that there may be a default in relation to the assumptions proposed when the company was established and the strategy followed by the company today. The condition for the establishment of this company was to meet the State’s needs for premises in the competitive market. And if you follow the type of media that covers the property market, you know that the term ‘to meet the state’s needs for premises’ has gradually been extended well. Entra Property is a significant player in the property market, which is targeting the private market, and I think it's a cross-thinking. So I'm very happy that the committee unanimously asks for a statement on this relationship. Finally, within the Ministry of Transport, the Post Norway is an example of the collapse of public procurement rules. Here you do it in such a creative way that you have your own subsidiaries you prefer when you buy services. The national audit points out, quite correctly, that this is not the case, and that in these matters too, we have to deal with the rules that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e908	This management report shall give the Storting a realistic, true picture of the state that owns various companies. In practice, it will mean the manner in which the State Councils manage the ownership of many different companies on behalf of the Norwegian community, represented at Stortinget. This is a big task that the Riksrevision in this report is trying to give us an image of. I want to say that the Riksrevision has largely closed down with this. Several speakers have been involved in this major health reform, and it is carefully considered in this report. It's important and necessary, it's proven. One of the moments when purchasing consulting services. This is a theme that I recognise from my work on auditing and control in my own country. When it comes to the fact that everyone, except Health Mid-Norway, failed to use written contracts using such services, I would say that it can only happen where audit and control are not present or not working properly enough. It may seem that hospitals were freed as businesses, trying to believe that they were free from state ownership. I expect that the practice of public procurement laws will be reviewed by the audit if not for as long as the companies that have had inadequate procedures in this area. This is a good example of the fact that control and audit can actually provide better management, and that is the goal. The code practice in Health South, which has also been mentioned earlier, in relation to input-driven financing, is of great note to the Riksaudition – and rightly so. I have to say that the department has managed to clean this up every now and then and notify you of a review of the system, and that's good. But one point I've noticed, and which I'm concerned about, is the combination of auditing and consulting, also in this context in companies. In general, this combination is not good, it applies both in municipalities and county municipalities as well as in the state. The last few years have also shown us that private audit firms in the home and abroad have little to do with privacy and their free position, even in relation to private enterprises. Once again, the audit should be the world's security for things to go right and proper. There are many companies in which the State is the owner or the partner, as mentioned in the report. One of the things that's mentioned here is Moxy Trucks AS. The national audit has checked the sales of the country's axles in that company. One of the components of that process is the mixing of roles as a board member on one side and the same person performing assignments for the board in the form of consulting services on the other side. I am pleased that the department has taken this into account, both in this case in particular and on a general basis. A mixture of roles should be avoided. Where there are so-called Tordenskiold's soldiers in government and council, in businesses and subsidiaries, yes, the suspicion is there right away. I'm not saying that there's always an overstep in such contexts, but practice has shown us that one should eliminate this danger when a new choice is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e929	The Central Party shall have no members of the Control and Constitutional Committee. As a member of the Social Committee, I have some comments primarily on the operation and practices of health businesses. I notice, among other things. that several breaches of the requirement for procurement protocols have been identified in the case of the purchase of consultancy services and agree with the unanimous comitology comment which reads: ‘With the apparent prevalence of infringements, there is reason to ask questions as to the adequacy of the competences of the different undertakings.’ Furthermore, there is reason to note that there is very different reporting for the accounts and accounting data of regional health enterprises. I am somewhat surprised that the Ministry of Health, in its reply to the National Audit Office, discloses that it does not have any group management position for the five regional health undertakings and, as a result, cannot issue a directive on annual reporting. I actually thought it was of the things that the Ministry of Health could decide and adjust, and instruct in connection with newsletters, as it is called. It is necessary to try to put this practice in place as soon as possible. It is also difficult for us politicians to see what the economic situation is, both in terms of liquidity and the operating economy, and in terms of debt and debt. The information is going to be very disconcerting. If you had good and equal standards and procedures for this, it would be a lot easier for decision-makers to have an overview. I believe that a common standard should be introduced as soon as possible, as the Committee also points out. There is also reason to note that it is very late reporting in some areas, among other things. for several earmarked grants which have not been reported and justified on their use. In this context, I would also like to comment on grants to strengthen mental health protection. As far as mental health protection is concerned, we have an escalation plan. We are constantly getting away with reports from the outside that this is not working well enough. The Riksrevision report now shows that the basis for allocation also appears to be incorrect, as the main cost key is therefore used in the income system for county councils when granting this grant. This cannot be correct in relation to a conscious and priority escalation plan in the field of mental health protection. I think, as I mentioned earlier, that the Riksrevision reports provide a good basis for looking at practice, and that the Riksrevision through its management control and audit has the opportunity to provide feedback that gives politicians good insight and experience background to do things better than what we do today. So to make the cost of capital visible in regional health enterprises. At the time of the adoption of the Health Business Act, Section 43 of the Health Business Act stipulated that enterprises should comply with the accounting principles laid down in the Accounting Act. In this context, the importance of an informed relationship with the use of capital was underlined. Then it is that you can notice quite critically that this has not been done a good enough status round about this. So you haven't been able to really visualize the cost of capital. There should have been a proper financial status for the individual health business and for the individual hospital, so that valuation, depreciation rules and arrangements were properly put in place. This was one of the bottoms of the health enterprise reform. So it's not yet in place. The Committee stresses this and states that it needs to be put in place and assumes that it will be cleaned up now. That should definitely be done. It was said that health care businesses would be in a financial balance as early as 2004, following the government’s proposals for the government budget for this year. Now the financial balance sheet is staggered until 2005, but I think it may be early compared to what we can read in this report. Finally, something about code practice and creative coding, especially in Health South. I find it a bit remarkable that the Ministry of Health is so elusive in giving a characteristic of the role of Health South here. Health Sør should have advised its subsidiaries not to enter into a project on changes in encoding, since Health Sør feared «creative coding». I think there must be clear signals from the owner of our healthcare companies in this context. It is important, as the Riksrevision points out, that proper diagnosis and procedure are such that it is consistent with the documentation in the patient record. The National Auditor's report goes on to say: ‘Any decision to change the codes shall therefore be subject to the agreement of the responsible doctor that the documentation in the patient record provides a basis for this.’; When the Riksrevision and we deal with this now, it obviously has to do with the economy first. But I would like to stress that it also has to do with the individual patient's health. What's being inserted into a patient's diagnostic and treatment records is very important. It is important that the treatment is as stated in the journal. We know that, among other things: in the field of heart surgery in private health services in the United States, there has been more than creative coding, and there has been mistreatment of many, because they have wanted to take the most out of money. At least we do not have to get such a health care service here in Norway. The journal and the consequences of what it says are very important for the patient. It should also be an important element when we look at this kind of revision. When examining, evaluating and evaluating e.g. the code practice, it is also important that this is done by fully independent actors. I think that with creative coding it is a very serious matter that the Ministry of Health must have a very clear and firm attitude to, and that one must strike down on as soon as one suspects that this is happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e961	Several budget proposals have indicated increased efforts in energy investments in developing countries. This was further reinforced in the follow-up to the Johannesburg Summit. Investments in the energy sector in developing countries, whether in hydropower deployment or in other renewable energy resources, are a capital-intensive and highly skilled area. It is in this context that the cooperation between Norfund and Statkraft on the company Statkraft Norfund Power Invest must be seen. I would like to add some comments to the comments both on this and on a few other areas that the vote refers to. This company appears as a natural feature to ensure that Norfund’s energy engagement is managed in the best possible way. It is considered a strategic investment by the company and Norfund. The aim of this cooperation is that the sum of what you can get together will be greater than what the two parent companies can achieve separately. In other words, the ownership of what is called the SNPI differs from the ordinary Norfund business. This is a cooperative society whose main purpose is to act as a tool for both owners. The SNPI makes individual investments in line with Norfund’s own efforts, but the aim is to ensure that owners’ overall competence contributes to increasing investment to a sector that is complex and costly, but also very important for the development potential of poor countries. In our view, it is therefore not appropriate to see this exposure in relation to the provision in Section 7 of the general instructions of Norfund. This provision is intended to cover Norfund’s risky investments in industrial enterprises in developing countries in the two ways Norfund operates, namely through its holding in an enterprise, or through investments in development funds, i.e. the ordinary activities of Norfund. The size has been previously informed about this, and about the ownership of the fund management company Aureos Capital, which Norfund has established in cooperation with its British sister organisation CDC. In my view, the problem here is parallel. The formation of this company, where Norfund's holding is also 50 p.m., is mentioned in St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003. The mention of Norfund's ownership took place when no comments were made by Stortinget. The establishment of SNPI and Norfund's holdings are also referred to in the budget proposal. There were no comments here either. Norfund’s own consideration of SN Power AS and Aureos Capital as strategic investments, and not as direct investments covered by the instruction in Section 7 of the instructions, is reflected in the fund’s accounts where its ownership of those companies is not considered as an investment — current assets — but as part of a joint venture — non-current assets. If the Stortinget wants further clarification beyond what I have now given on the use of funds for strategic investment, we would very much like to get back to it, either in the revised national budget or in another appropriate way. Norfund has therefore chosen, during the creation of the SNPI as at the time of the creation of Aureos, to ensure its influence and ability to control by being equal partners. In this way, it is ensured that the overall development policy objectives underlying Norfund’s own activities will also be given the necessary emphasis in the company. Going into such a company as a minority would probably be a worse solution. This would mean not having the same opportunity to direct the development of the company and to ensure that the development policy objectives are adequately met. However, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs points out in its reply letter of 9 September to the National Audit Office, we can see that there may be a need for clarification of Norfund's instructions, in relation to such cooperatives as we are talking about here. This process is now under way within the Department and in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. We will inform Storting when this process is completed. Let me also make a comment on the question of steering participation. As regards the question of Norfund’s board members’ participation in the Boards of Directors of the companies owned by Statkraft and the British Commonwealth Development Corporation, CDC, Storting’s principal position on such participation is well known. Norfund has been made aware that I share this view. Having said that, I think there is reason to stress that Norfund himself believes that such participation was appropriate in a transitional phase in connection with the start-up of the companies. Not least, it was important for Norfund to ensure that their overall objective, which is that the Fund should carry out its activities in accordance with the basic principles of general Norwegian development policy, was also achieved in the two new companies. The situation with the participation of members of the Board of Directors of Norfund is, in one exception, close, already ceased. The last member of the Board of Directors of Norfund, who is a member of the Board of SNPI, will resign when the ordinary term expires in June of this year. This has been notified by the Ministry of the National Audit Office. As a government council, I do not have at my disposal formal governance instruments that allow me to intervene directly in the composition of the board of private, independent companies. The election of members of the board of directors of the SNPI takes place in accordance with the rules of the Share Act, which is well known. So I have little legal opportunities to comply with the wishes of the majority of the population. However, I will do what I can to ensure that Norfund's board takes the clear signal that lies in Storting's wish that this relationship does not continue, but that it ceases, as pointed out and requested in the remarks. For the sake of order, I would just like to make a brief comment on the issue of consular summits, and that is reflected in a lack of clarity in Norfund's 2002 annual report. Under the benefit section for executives, a payment of SEK 70 000 to the Chairman of the Board is specified as remuneration. According to Norfund, the amount is identical to Norfund's chairman's fees for his board of directors' work. So it's not about an additional performance, so you might get the impression. However, the wording of the note may be misunderstood and, according to Norfund, further clarification will be given as from the 2003 annual report. Based on the information I have, there does not seem to be any basis for claiming that members of Norfund's board have received remuneration from the company other than board fees. In this sense, the committee's criticism of Norfund at this point seems to be based on a misunderstanding. As regards the fees paid by Norfund for the directors Norfund's board members in Aureos and SNPI, I point out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its reply letter of 9 September last year to the Riksrevision provided a comprehensive explanation of this. In setting up both companies, it was decided, for start-up reasons, that each of the owners should pay the governing fees for their respective members of the board. I would like to stress that the assumption was that once the company had entered normal operation, this practice would cease. I assume that has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e999	I have asked for the word to comment on some of the things that have been raised in the suspension and in the debate related to the operation of health businesses. Only as far as code practices are concerned. It is of the utmost importance that code practices in health establishments are as accurate as possible. That is the basis for proper funding, and there are schemes in place to support this. There is now a significant stepping up of efforts to ensure it. Of established arrangements, I will draw up the so-called Billing Committee. The purpose of the sample is to ensure the quality of payments for the ISF, which are in line with the intentions of the scheme. Among other things, with a background in the Health South code issue, the sample was used much more actively in 2003 than in the past. The Health Ministry’s 2004 Regional Health Executive Document focuses on the responsibility of enterprises for proper coding and establishes the necessary procedures for this purpose. Central cooperation between the Ministry of Health, SINTEF Health, the Medical Association and its specialist associations is now being implemented with a view to achieving better and more uniform coding. In the 2004 State budget, 5 million have been allocated. to strengthen the quality and control apparatus of the ISF system. One element of this work is that, as a joint project between SINTEF Health and the National Audit Office, a major journal review is being carried out. This illustrates that a major effort is now being made to improve the quality of hospital medical records, so that the ISF system can function better according to its intentions. Let me then say something specific about the code case that was revealed in Health South. Coding is linked to the use of the ISF as a financial instrument. An important point of the scheme is to stimulate activity and good resource use. Coding is a key element in the practice of this scheme. It is through coding that hospitals clarify the activities they have carried out, which provides the basis for payments to regional health establishments. There can be no doubt that the Ministry of Health has a basic understanding of the importance of code practices being properly implemented. It is important to respect the intentions of the ISF scheme. It is important for the funding mechanism and it is important for the legitimacy of healthcare. In accordance with this, it was and is the Health Ministry’s clear position in relation to the Health South case that Health South in its communication with health companies should have ensured that they did not agree with economic incentives. Such conditions would lead to a risk of incorrect code practice. As questions have been raised in the vote, I quote from the letter the Ministry of Health sent to Health South on 14 March 2003, which says: ‘The Ministry considers it totally unacceptable that work to improve DRG encoding is directly linked to remuneration that is performance-dependent, i.e. linked to the increase in income that one achieves. This is considered unacceptable, irrespective of whether it is clarified in the assumptions that the coding should be in accordance with legislation and good professional practice.» I quote from the same letter: ‘After it became clear that there would be no agreement with Health South, it was marked to the employee that he was free to contact the individual companies and that the companies were free to use him. Neither in the feedback to the employee nor in the communications given to the four establishments concerned, it was noted that such a compensation scheme was considered unacceptable by Health South. In the light of the dialogue that had taken place until that time, the Ministry of Health is very serious about the fact that Health South did not make it clear that such a compensation scheme was unacceptable. This assessment by the Ministry does not change the absence of an agreement with a health business.» In the Ministry of Health’s reply to the National Audit Office of 30 September 2003, it is indicated from the Ministry of Health that Health South in its handling of the case made serious errors. In the light of what has been achieved in the vote, I see that the facts mentioned in what I have now quoted in the letter from the Department of Health South should have been more explicitly mentioned in the Ministry's reply to the Riksrevision. But let there be no doubt about what is the ministry's clear view. Nor should there be any doubt that the department, as soon as we learned about the case in Health South, took hold of it, started a full review and then an external review, and this was started before the matter was published in the press. In conclusion, let me say that I have noted the unanimous comments of the Committee on the desirability and necessity of more consistent reporting of accounting data, and will follow the instructions given. I will also take the necessary measures in relation to the criticism raised regarding breaches of the public procurement legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1033	Carl I. Hagen has asked for the floor in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1036	I noticed that the Health Minister pointed out that there are now more people who are looking at the ISF system, representing the hospitals, the Medical Association and more. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he will assess whether the new private hospital organisation, PRISY, might also be involved in that work. As far as ISF is concerned, it is important to get the best input possible. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Health, as I said, whether he would like to assess whether PRISY could also be involved in that work, in line with the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1043	I share Hagen’s intention and wish to have a good dialogue between public health authorities and private healthcare providers – in this case the private hospitals, which are now organised in a new organisation. I can tell you that we from the Ministry of Health are planning a meeting with the new organisation in a short time, and that in this context we will also discuss how we can cooperate on the development of the ISF system. The authorities and private suppliers have a clear common interest in developing this in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1048	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1052	I noticed Frafjord Johnson's briefing on her assessment and her and the government's policy in relation to the strategic investments. The Council of State said in its statement that if this were to be further clarified, one could be willing to come back to this in the revised national budget. For my part, I have to say that, in a question where there is a different interpretation of what is practice according to the current instructions, it would be very sensible, through concrete consideration in the Stortinget, where the Foreign Affairs Committee is also involved, to provide a basis for the policy that you want to pursue in the future. It's about so much money and so high a risk that I think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1059	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2223]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1075	Investment in collective transport solutions as alternatives to car use is necessary, inter alia, for: to raise our quality of life. Urban railways, but above all the railways, which do not pollute, are important in this context. The working party has therefore been in favour of investment being structured in such a way that the railways will take a greater part of both passenger and freight transport in parts of Norway. Increased safety, punctuality and capacity are the objectives of this effort. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the Committee would like to stress that train operation should be assessed not only on the basis of purely economic criteria but also on the socio-economic side. The railway, as a low-polluting means of transport with high capacity both in the case of freight and passenger transport, is an alternative to which we should invest even more. But it's the national transport plan, which is coming soon, that will be able to give us an answer as to whether this is the case. Not least, as the majority of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party say, it is important to maintain infrastructure and services also in less populated areas of the country. As an upland representative, I can not then avoid mentioning the train section on Gjøvikbanen, but also the train up through Gudbrandsdalen. It's very close to me. Now the Gjøvik track is to be put to tender. I have to say I'm very excited about what it will lead to. On page 4, there is a comment from the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which is just saying something about increased competition and liberalisation. They believe that this ‘has shown a positive effect in comparison with the results achieved under the previous transport regime’. To that end, I just want to say that greater use of the tendering and competitive deployment of routes may – and I might stress – give greater punctuality. But I'm not so sure if it's going to be much cheaper if there's going to be as many departures and stops as we have today. Therefore, there are also some other sides to the call for tenders. Maybe it's like we have to accept that it costs to have trains in Norway, and it costs to have trains in less populated areas, as it says in the setting. The National Audit Office's study, which we are dealing with here today, has been aimed at examining whether the production of train services included in the grant for the purchase of public passenger transport services provides the intended results. Furthermore, it has been examined whether the management of the system of State purchases of passenger transport services from NSB is managed in line with the Stortingen assumptions. In fact, according to the National Audit Office’s report, this is the basis for saying that the results are not very uplifting. The national audit indicates that the Stortinget has taken the view that the railway should relieve passenger traffic on the road network. Nevertheless, the result is that the volume of passenger transport has been significantly reduced. That's not good. In addition, rail competitiveness has been reduced due to weak productivity development and reduced customer satisfaction due to operational problems. Poor punctuality and a large number of train departure settings do not contribute to an increase in public recreation – on the contrary. The National Audit Office’s reference to the lack of coordination and targeting of actions to reduce operational problems between the NSB and the Railway Agency should be a particular challenge for those responsible. Weaknesses in the contract work and in the follow-up of the department by obtaining relevant management information also contribute to the impression that it may be too weak to manage. The use of contracts as a means of steering imposes high requirements for the design of objectives and specifications. Therefore, the follow-up becomes absolutely crucial. I notice that the Ministry of Transport agrees mainly with the critical information provided by the National Audit Office, but claims to have initiated processes to develop the contract agency in the case of the purchase of train services. It is necessary to have adequate legislation in place and the indicators to be most appropriate to follow up productivity developments in the NSB should perhaps not be the size of the retail manager or take a decision. It is the ministry that must ensure that these satisfy the need and come into place as soon as possible. As I see it, it's a very useful report the Riksrevision has sent to Stortinget. We look forward to the follow-up, and we hope for increased achievement and not least a much better train offer at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1094	The National Audit Office's investigation reveals, as the Advocate General had in mind, a number of factors which, in time, caused the warning lights, or the signalling system, to light. Weaknesses in the contractual arrangements, follow-up by the department through the provision of relevant management information, weak productivity development and reduced customer satisfaction are some of the conditions revealed. For example, the report points out that the requirements of the works of agreement and follow-up were to a small extent focused on the results of train production. The main focus was on the activity of the train running. The national audit also shows that during the investigation period the Ministry did not sanction the achievement of a weak target in relation to the punctuality standard in the contract work. However, there is reason to stress that the organisation of public purchases of train services has been and is in an ongoing development process. The transition from being a management company to becoming a state limited liability company with completely different returns requirements and normal business requirements has taken place in a relatively short time. In addition, some important revisions have recently been made to the policy objectives underlying the former regime of transport, for which the Riksrevision has carried out its investigation. Aspects such as the liberalisation of express bus policy and aviation have taken place as part of a comprehensive shift in transport policy, where a broader approach has been adopted by emphasising the overall transport supply more than the individual means of transport in isolation. The Committee majority – Right, Advance Party and Christian People’s Party – notes that the Ministry has recognised the need for greater freedom for the NSB to adapt the train offer in terms of frequencies and stopping patterns through the new framework agreement. In addition, like the rapporteur, we have noticed that it is planned to gradually introduce competition on the Norwegian railway network from this year onwards, as well as quality contracts with performance-dependent grants. This takes inwards a good part of the weaknesses pointed out by the National Audit Office in its report. We have also noticed that Bergensbanen and Sørlandsbanen, two of the NSB's main routes, are being offered during 2005, in addition to the fact that Gjøvikbanen – as mentioned by the case-rapporteur – will be put to tender this spring. The company winning a tender is granted exclusive operating rights for a certain period and several other European countries have, as has been said, been successful in putting train operations on the market. The effects have been good, and the vast majority, if not all countries, report increased passenger access and better provision. With regard to this policy mix, we have recently received some interesting figures. The NSB's Tertial Report to the Ministry of Transport for the 3rd Tertial last year and the Railway Agency's ongoing government show that the effects we expected from a change in political focus must already be said to have come true. In fact, the 2003 development was very positive, both in terms of improved punctuality and fewer cancellations. In fact, following some of the changes implemented by the Ministry, 2003 is the best ever in terms of punctuality overall, especially in the second half of the year. The number of set-offs was reduced by 13 pst. from 2002 to 2003, for example, the punctuality trend in 2003 was particularly positive for the eastern regions. The decline in passenger traffic has also stopped in 2003, and in a number of sections and areas, a negative trend has actually been reversed to growth in passenger numbers in 2003. For example, the evolution of local passenger numbers in the Oslo area showed an increase of more than 10 pst. in relation to 2002. For the right, this is an important indication that some of the facts revealed in the report have been taken seriously by the ministry. A settlement has been made with a previous transport regime and a previous transport policy that has proved to be ineffective, and the findings that have not yet been made are used to organise passenger transport for the future in a better way than we do today. However, the recent figures show that a policy reversal, which the Riksrevision in this report has signalled, should perhaps take place, has proved to be in line with the intentions of the majority at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1107	The National Audit Board has reviewed the system of State procurement from the NSB in order to identify whether the funds used for it produce the desired results and whether the follow-up of this agreement by the Ministry of Transport is favourable. As we can read the report, I think it is alarming for the total use of resources within the collective sector when the survey reveals that the purchase of passenger transport services has increased by more than 10 pst. at the same time that the number of passenger kilometres, i.e. passenger traffic, has been reduced by nearly 12 pst. It identifies a mismatch between the resources used and the results generated by the activity. It is clearly negative for the overall effectiveness of the Norwegian collective offer in general. There may be many reasons why the NSB experienced a decrease in the number of passenger kilometres over the period, or users. Firstly, there is no doubt – and also mentioned – that in many cases the customer satisfaction of NSB passengers is low and could be much better. Of course, this is due to more circumstances, but those who regularly use these offers depend to a large extent on punctuality and predictability. It is then well known that the NSB wears a lot of delays and cancelled departures. Even I use the Eastfold track sometimes, and that's also where a well-known phenomenon. Now we're recording some improvement within this field, and that's of course very positive, but I still think it's a long canvas to bleach in relation to getting up the satisfaction of the customers we're talking about here. Other factors involved are the increase in the volume and liberalisation of express bus services, and, of course, lower fares for air travel in general. These are also ratios that have to be taken into account in the calculation. The market credibility of the NSB in terms of punctuality and predictability will continue to be a determining factor for parts of the customer base. It is therefore very important, in the view of the Progress Party, to allow other actors access to the Norwegian rail network as soon as possible through competition. It is therefore positive, as many people have pointed out in the past, that competition in the first sections is already in the near future. We see that in a positive light. However, the Party wishes to go further in terms of introducing competition on the domestic passenger transport market and will therefore more like the different carriers and the different means of passenger transport. We therefore put forward the proposal contained on page 6 of the vote. In many cases, customers’ growing demands for flexibility in relation to destinations and punctuality speak in the railway’s disfavor. It is therefore natural and positive, in the view of the Progress Party, that more and more people take advantage of the express buses, which obviously have greater flexibility than the railway. This is also a recognition that, as I see it, the NSB itself has done, as we see that they are investing more and more parts of the agreed production as a bus transport. The Party of Progress cannot interpret this in any other way than that the NSB also realises that bus and coach transport is a more efficient means of passenger transport than the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1124	The President understands it so that the representative Henrik Rød has brought up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1127	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1132	The Christian People's Party has noted with interest the National Audit Office's investigation into the purchase of passenger transport services by the State from the NSB. It is important to focus on resource use related to the purchase of unprofitable services in all transport areas. This is no less important when the scope is as large as for the railway. Each year, almost 1 400 million are used. kr for the purchase of passenger transport services by the NSB from the State budget. This is a comprehensive resource use. It is therefore interesting, when the National Audit Office has examined this further, to see whether the train production included in the grant for State purchases of passenger transport services provides the intended results and whether the Ministry of Transport, based on the decisions and assumptions of the Storting, has a sound management of the system of State purchases of passenger transport from the NSB. I record that the Riksrevision has some critical comments in its report, and that the Ministry of Transport in its reply essentially agrees with the Riksrevision's assessments and proposals. The Ministry indicates that in several areas it will have a review of the works of agreement and the management system to ensure more resource-oriented management of train production. This is useful. It is a constructive approach to the study by the Ministry of Transport and thus contributes to increased quality of the National Audit Office’s study on the purchase of passenger transport services by the NSB. It is of great interest that the Riksrevision questions whether the railway has weakened its competitiveness through weak productivity development, reduced passenger transport volume, increased operational problems and reduced customer satisfaction in recent years. In my opinion, there can be no doubt that the NSB itself has weakened its competitiveness through the way the company has been run, and how the customers have been treated and experienced the service services. Let me give you an example from my own county, the Ashim Station. Ashim has station status. Complicated ticket orders must to a large extent be made from this station for the county. Of course, this is not satisfactory for the customers. Fredrikstad, for example, with 70 000 inhabitants, is registered as a stopover and has to order complex services from Askim, i.e. across the county. Customers must be better treated in the NSB system if they are to receive the service they are looking for. At the same time, the majority point out that rail competitiveness depends on overall market developments and conditions such as the liberalisation of express bus policy and increased competition in aviation. This is, as the majority point out in the vote, partly the results of a misguided policy. The current government wants to see transport as a whole, and then it is not primarily the individual mode of transport that is in focus. This is also part of the philosophy behind the national transport plan, namely to get away from sector thinking and to adopt a transport policy where the different transport areas complement each other. However, there is reason to ask whether the NSB itself, as a major operator in the bus market, is involved in saying of the branch on which they are sitting. When, through its bus operation, the NSB is in direct competition with the train on some routes and on other routes the bus for trains is set up, this is definitely in order to weaken competitiveness and the position of the railway. I am very pleased that a broad majority of the Committee emphasises that train operation should not only be assessed on the basis of economic criteria but also have a socio-economic aspect. The majority also state that the railway should cover a substantial part of the passenger service in Norway. The Christian People's Party is pleased with this statement about the railway that is being expressed here. Rail transport has significant socio-economic benefits, not least in terms of the environment. Railways should be able to contribute much more to the elimination of heavy goods vehicles from the roads and, in key strokes, better railway solutions can be an important measure in the fight against air pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1149	As a member of the Transport Committee, I feel the need to say something about this matter. The National Auditor has uncovered a lot of things that they've seen their finger on. For example, the number of deviations in punctuality and cancellation of train journeys, many of which have been on, was very high in the late 1990s. There is also a covered gap between public purchases and expected running train kilometres. The NSB was in a difficult period. Probably some of the problems were also in border countries between the NSB and the Railway Agency. In addition, there was a problem with new train equipment, which had childhood diseases. There was a lack of qualified crews, the liberalisation of express buses and increased competition in aviation, which many people have had to deal with. It's a negative focus – lit, yes – but it resulted in passengers, and commuters for that cause, finding new travel patterns. For the Workers' Party, it has been a public purchase goal that it should primarily provide a good supply of subsidised tickets for day commuters. This is where most of the dollars of public purchases have gone. Having at least two thoughts in your head at once, it should still be like this. The pressure on roads, land, emissions, air quality in urban areas – all this means that everyone should want more travelers on hams. There's a good social economy in it. I can recommend today's "Communal Report", which we have been distributed in the shelves. The magazine has a good article about how we have to work together to achieve a better climate. Railways also have their advantages for freight transport over longer distances. The increase in the transport of goods is good. Much positive has been achieved in recent years. After a year of decline in passenger numbers, the number is now increasing in the transport of passengers on both long and short distances. That's good. Nevertheless, I find reason to say that public purchases of train services are enough things we have to live with. Compared to other countries, we use much less than they do. In Norway, about 25 pst. by the means of operation of public crowns. In Sweden, with competition on the track, there are about 50 pst. There is no automatic means for competition to reduce the need for public purchases. The ones we want to become competitors on the track are not one-sided train companies. The Holten was in his post that he did not think it was any advantage that the NSB also owned a bus company. Some of us think that's an advantage. The competing companies, which may come on Norwegian tracks, are transport companies in total. If one looks at one-sided and focuses too much on the cost without including the socio-economic objectives, train running is expensive. Modern train operations, as the plurality of Stortinget thinks, are to be competitive on large parts of the railway network, are forward-looking. The Ministry of Transport only has to produce such good documents that customers get a good train offer. There is also one of the reports of the Riksrevision: the Ministry’s lack of follow-up to the Stortinget’s commitment to sanctions in the event of poor achievement of objectives in terms of punctuality in the contract work. Nevertheless, one might well say that the train operation is going reasonably well and on the rails.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1170	I have also read the National Audit Office's report with interest and record that it points to the potential for improvement – in order to use that expression – in relation to the agreement between the Ministry of Transport and the NSB, with which something can be done, and which I assume will be followed up by the Department. When several of the speakers have pointed out that launching the railway will be the way to go in order to solve the problems pointed out here, and in order to increase the customer satisfaction of the railway, I certainly believe that here you are wrong. An important reason for low satisfaction and many delays – many trains have to be on a red signal, while the train is expected to proceed – is that the NSB is running on a railway track from the end of the 1800s. So, we have the first generation railway in Norway, a worn-out and most immature railway. Here's the main problem. This is why there are so many operating problems compared to the NSB. This problem cannot be solved until the railway network has been upgraded in Norway. This is the main problem here. And the example – if you can look at examples – will be found when you study the Flytrain, the Gardermoban. A modern double-track railway has been built here. The flight train has been developed and built up within the NSB group. Here you have great customer satisfaction. It shows that the main problem is the railway network, the infrastructure. I would assume that had the express buses, which are now in many places parallel to the train, driven on a road body built at the end of the 1800s, customer satisfaction had not been very great there either. That's why the main problem with respect to the NSB and with respect to railway operations is that we have an immature first-generation railway infrastructure here in the country that is from the end of the 1800s.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1181	The purchase of passenger transport services by the State from the NSB is one of the country’s main transport policy instruments. The use of resources is large and has been increasing. I agree that there is no reason to be satisfied with the results of railway operations in recent years. The train offer – frequencies, stop patterns and departure times – is also subject to strong local and partly national involvement. Therefore, policy opinions on placing greater emphasis on performance management have been less followed up in practical policies. There has traditionally been a great deal of cross-political agreement on this. I believe it is very important to use more effective forms of agreement. I therefore broadly agree with the Riksrevision's assessments and proposals, and am very pleased with the support given by the majority of the population to the ongoing work of the Government to streamline resource use and improve political governance over the purchase of passenger transport services from the NSB. The Ministry of Transport has set in motion extensive processes to develop and improve the works of purchase of train services. In the course of the next few years, the outsourcing of services will fundamentally change in a more efficient and performance-oriented direction. However, the Ministry is also changing the works of today’s contract. Incentive contracts have been established for the intercity sections. Such contracts will be gradually introduced in several areas. The 2005 purchase agreement provides for a freer production adjustment than the framework agreement provides, and a more targeted performance reporting. In this context, I have noticed that the majority believe that the NSB must be given greater freedom to adapt the train offer in terms of frequencies and stopping patterns. I'm glad that a large majority focusses on the socio-economic aspects, including the environmental benefits of providing a good train offer. I have noticed again that some people are not concerned with good social economy in the design of transport policy. However, as the majority points out, it is important to understand that overall developments in the passenger transport market, such as: involves increased competition for the train, is the result of a misguided policy, taking into account the overall best possible provision of transport for road users. But an efficient transport system requires political governance. This is the broad political outreach, with one exception, that marks an extreme market liberalism option. The working party is wondering about the information that the requirement of the Public Procurement Agency for train services is so closely linked to activity and not to the results of train operations. I would like to remind you that Stortinget is well informed about the existing agreement and that Stortinget has contributed to precisely the governance that has developed. The Committee is critical of the fact that the Ministry has not followed up the Storting's premise to penalise in the event of a weak achievement of the objectives in relation to the punctuality standard in the contract work. I take note of this and show you, among other things. work is now being undertaken to include punctuality in the incentive contracts and agreements of the new competition regime. I am very concerned that security is being well maintained in this context. For information, I can inform you that overall punctuality has improved significantly in 2003. The National Audit Office and the Committee place a strong focus on productivity development. I agree that this is important. The Ministry will establish good indicators as soon as possible to measure productivity trends and follow developments closely. I hope and expect that the competitive outsourcing programme that the Government will further develop in the National Transport Plan 2006-2015 will provide strong incentives for improved productivity. I believe that the National Audit Office's report and the Storting's treatment of this fits well with the Government's work to streamline resource use and improve precisely the political governance of the state's purchase of train transport services. Within a few years, the entire contract agency will be transformed in such a direction. I want to give this work a high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1210	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 224]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1226	Over the last few years, the defence has made a major change in order to create a stronger, more time-real and modern defence. Several thousand people have had to change jobs, and many have also lost their livelihoods. Many communities face tough challenges precisely because of this. For example, the region in which I live has lost more than 500 jobs in Defence alone and, of course, has challenges associated with this. But I am aware that these are also the consequences of a wild policy. Changes in property management and organisation have put systems of different kinds to the test. It goes without saying that in such a situation it is essential to have good follow-up and information systems to succeed in such a transformation. The defence has therefore launched several projects that are common to the defence sectors and are aimed at establishing good management-support information systems — including the 1996 economic project and the 1997 wage project. In 1999, these projects were merged together, to be terminated again in 2000. The work on establishing common information systems was continued in the so-called Project Golf. This project was redefined in the autumn of 2001 from being an investment project to become a phased programme with individual subprojects. The Programme Golf should introduce a new integrated integrated management system, with solutions in the areas of accounting, wages, acquisitions, material administration and maintenance. But what does the review of the projects that I have just mentioned really show? Yes, a defence management – unfortunately through several governments – that has set in motion a number of projects for considerable costs without sufficient pre-work. And I have to say that it is also thought-provoking when the Riksrevision shows that disagreement about solutions within the Defence itself has been a contributing cause of the problems. The fact that this presentation is confirmed by the Council of State in its letter to the Committee of 22 January this year does not help to strengthen the image of a well-thought out project. The National Audit Office also points to the lack of anchoring in the organisation and management and the weak involvement of the Ministry of Defence and the FO as key factors in explaining that the precursors of the Gulf were not of any importance. This is history now, but it's not small money we're talking about and small money it's so far cost. 268 million. kr has cost the various ‘for projects’. These are funds that have been incurred before any new system has been developed and put into full operation. Nor is information so far a safe basis for us to believe that the funds used have had satisfactory results. For us in Stortinget, who in the budgetary context of comparison fight about small amounts for important purposes – such as securing stones and staves, a little money for racial protection, subsidies for small and large cultural actions, and for example. strengthening the supervision of child protection, in order to mention some examples – the use of 268 million could be achieved. kr is regarded as an unacceptable waste of Community funds. It should be noted that a majority, including government parties, is based on expressing concern about the information that uncertainties continue to be linked both to further progress and to the completion of the Programme Golf. I hope that this concern can be resolved by the road as soon as possible. It is essential to put the programme in place, but in such a way as not to impose greater costs on the Community than is necessary. I therefore assume that the Riksrevision is now following closely the follow-up of the Department, and that the Government is adequately briefing the Government on progress and cost developments in the implementation of the Programme Golf projects by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1247	Most of the issues that we deal with in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which we receive from the National Audit Office, are about the snow that fell last year – and not just last year, but also in the past. The case rapporteur was concerned about this with money that has been wasted, which has been lost. I guess it's just to say that what's eaten is eaten. The most important thing about these kinds of cases is that you can learn from it, correct the course and get ashore in a way that makes the final result come to life – and is good for the business in question. The project we are talking about here was formally launched in June 2000 and was changed to Program Golf in December 2001. Project Golf was a continuation of the wage and economic project launched in 1996. It is mainly the precursors of the Programme Golf that are criticised in the National Audit Office's report. The study points to a positive trend from 2001 and 2002 in all the main causes of non-achievement. The Ministry of Defence has, fortunately, agreed with most of the criticisms of the Riksrevision against the predecessors of the Program Golf. In September 2001, former Minister of Defence Bjørn Tore Godal intervened in the facility of Project Golf and amended the strategy for the implementation of a common integrated defence management system. These included: information and recommendations from quality assurance as the basis for changing the strategy in the autumn of 2001 when Project Golf was converted into the Program Golf. This suggests that the Ministry’s own control regime has worked, that weaknesses in a project have been identified, and that political leadership has taken this into account. The size has been kept constantly informed about the development of Project Golf and Program Golf. The majority of the population have previously been satisfied with the 2001 conversion to the Programme Golf, which ensures significantly greater political control than the old project. In the Programme Golf, new contracts have been concluded for each phase, with a thorough evaluation before proceeding to the next phase. This has provided good governance and cost control along the way. Per. January 15th this year was the first project in the Program Golf 97 pst. completed in accordance with the timetable, just below the budget and with agreed quality. During the implementation of this project, the Defence will meet the functional requirements of the State’s economic legislation and will deliver the accounts and government accounts under the Financial Code as of the financial year 2004. Therefore, there is reason to trust that the project is now on track. Coordination of the Gulf with other conversion measures in the Defence Force is essential in order to achieve the Storting's objective of profit implementation during the 2002-2005 programming period. It is therefore gratifying that the Program Golf seems to be functioning well. The criticism of the Ministry's use of inadequate solutions by the National Audit Office is difficult to understand as criticism of the lack of progress in the work, but rather as a representation of the unfortunate consequences of previous misguided projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1270	The case rapporteur had an excellent review of the facts of the case. I'm not going to repeat all of that. What I particularly want to focus on is this endless array of projects and planning projects that the Defense has obviously started. As we heard, an economic project was launched in 1996 and a wage project in 1997. These were altered, expanded and eventually merged in 1999. In 2000, the entire project was terminated. Then we started a new information system called Project Golf. Now I'm not saying there's anything negative about Project Golf. What I want to focus on is this endless array of projects and planning projects in Defense. The national audit has gone through this series, and they have revealed that this work has obviously not been done effectively. There is no doubt that the follow-up and planning of these projects has been critical. It is quite obvious to me that when faced with such a series of projects that are terminated, expanded, modified, closed, newly created, etc., it is a matter that does not ensure the effective implementation of this work. I find it particularly worrying to hear and also to confirm that some of this is due to the fact that there has been disagreement within the defence. These are relationships that should have been clarified in advance, before you got so far in these projects. Between 1997 and the first half of 2002, 268 million have been disposed of. kr on these projects, without having completed their development or operation. That's a not insignificant amount of money. I think there is every reason to ask questions about whether part of this money can be said to have had any benefit at all, precisely because the objectives and strategies have been constantly changed, the projects have changed, abandoned, and new ones have been created. I therefore believe that the rapporteur has good evidence of what she said that this can be regarded as a waste of taxpayers' money. It's worrying. Then we heard the representative Martin Engeset, who said that 'what has been eaten is eaten'. You could say, because this is obviously such a diet that you can't do anything with in retrospect. But I think it is absolutely essential for the defence to take this note, and that we also make sure that we do not get back into such situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1285	The case rapporteur had an excellent review of the case. I have no problem joining both this and Red's review, with the clarification that, for SV, it is of course the waste of Community resources – and not taxpayers' funds – that is our main focus in the matter. The Council of State highlighted earlier today, during the debate on Document No. 1 from the National Audit Office, that the Programme Golf was the main measure taken by the Council of State to avoid observations and to obtain observations from the National Audit Office in connection with the next Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox Then it's a challenging job the Council of State has, it must be allowed to say. The National Audit Office's report does not give a flattening picture of Project Golf and its predecessors until today. The defence appears to be an establishment that, because of internal disagreements, is wasting the resources of the community. I am very pleased that there is an overall committee which assumes that the Government is briefing the Government on progress and cost developments in relation to the implementation of the Programme Golf projects by the end of 2004, and I hope that the Council of State here can also confirm that it is something she sees capable of doing. Although the representative, Engeset, pointed out that the criticism has been taken seriously and that there is reason to trust that the Programme Golf is now on the right track, it is difficult to have sufficient confidence, with the history that this programme has. In a letter dated 5 February 2004 to the Committee, the Council of State also refers to the fact that the defence director’s own internal audit revealed in practice the vast majority of the problems raised by the Riksaudition, including in front of the Riksaudition report. Of course, it's good to see that the defense itself was also aware that not everything was all right in connection with the Program Golf. I wonder whether the Council of State can also comment on the extent to which the type of function, the type of internal control the head of defence's internal audit is continuing in the Defence today, in view of the future, inter alia. for the Program Golf.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1298	In my feedback to the National Audit Office, I have joined the National Audit Office's presentation of the development of Project Golf. The criticism addressed by the Riksrevision was followed up by the Ministry in the autumn of 2001 and in retrospect it is not difficult to see that it is the same situation as the Riksrevision has pointed out today, which was emphasised at the time when the then Councillor Bjørn Tore Godal decided not to be able to approve Project Golf in the autumn of 2001. As a consequence, the Gulf was established as a programme to ensure the overall perspective. At the same time, the aim was to ensure a phased, gradual and verifiable implementation of a common integrated defence management system. This strategy involves the submission of several decision-making points. It provides better governance and cost control along the way than would have been the case by bringing together the deployment within one major project, as originally done for Project Golf. A balance of progress in the Program Golf will be two-part. On the one hand, the defence has a significant need to put the defence's internal management system in place as quickly as possible. There could be talk for a quick start of several parallel delivery projects. On the other hand, the extensive and rapid implementation of the internal management system is very demanding and risky, and in addition, it will impose great demands on the defence’s ability to implement it at the same time as large parts of the defence are converted. I therefore consider this with the step-by-step introduction of supplies in the Gulf to be one of the main measures to remedy several of the observations made by the National Audit Office on the accounts of the Defence Agency, in particular for the years 1997 to 2001. Delivery project No 1, with the introduction of, inter alia: new accounting system is the first and most important step. It will not mean that this step solves all the problems in relation to the National Audit Office's comments on the Defence – that was what I was in the post of a previous debate today – but it is the main project to achieve the main objective, namely to be able to meet the requirements of the Defence Accounts, among others. the accounting rules of the State. The next delivery projects that come will also help satisfy the comments of the National Audit Office on the defence accounts. However, the uncertainty associated with the final completion of the programme depends on the level of ambition that will be introduced into the new delivery projects, the way in which these delivery projects are carried out, and the time phase between them. I am pleased that the majority consider it more important to minimise risks and thus to ensure against unexpected financial overshootings and complications in the implementation of each project than at present to advance a date of completion without having taken a decision on important premises in the individual projects to enable such completion. The purpose of the first supply project in the Programme Golf is to provide a system that enables the Defence to produce accounts for the national accounts in accordance with the Financial Regulation of the State. This has also been the main reason why this delivery was prioritised first in the Gulf, in delivery project No. 1st@item: inlistbox The next deliveries will support other parts of the defence management system, areas for which the National Audit Office has also noted. Implementation of delivery project No 1 has therefore focused on facilitating defence compliance with the functional requirements of the Financial Regulation and delivering accounts to the government accounts from the financial year 2004. A new system of accounts for defence was introduced and put into operation in November 2003. As often happens with the transition between two different systems, there were some transition problems. Some people were paid too late, and there were some problems with the reconciliation of the accounts at the end of the year. Difficult links between old and new systems also lead to challenges in terms of traceability between tasks, contracting entities and payments. This, in the transition phase, will again pose some audit challenges. However, it is important to point out that this will be short-term start-up problems as a result of a larger measure to address the overall challenge of meeting the Financial Regulation. Compared to the main objective of providing adequate accounts to the national accounts, these irregularities are temporary and thus manageable. In several of the previous articles, time has been spent criticising in particular the period from 1997 to 2001, a criticism that I have agreed to. Now it's important to focus on what we're doing in the future, and the division that's happened in the Program Golf in several phases, gives us considerable increased opportunities to have better governance in the future than we've had in the past. I hope that both the Committee and the National Audit Office will find useful and joyful.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1317	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 224]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1332	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1341	When we now have Kjøsnesfjorden Kraftverk AS' application for permission to carry out regulations and transfers in the Jølstervastre and the construction of Kjøsnesfjorden power plant, we close a case that founders of seven farms in Kjøsnesfjorden started more than 50 years ago. They've worked hard and purposefully to build up the water force on their property. They have had many contacts both to local and not least to central government, and target the value of the power development both in the preparation of the Samla Plan, when the plan was first developed at St.meld. No 63 for 1984-1985, and later continued and signed for treatment in Stortinget in connection with the Samla Plan in 1993 on the basis of St.meld. No 60 for 1991-1992. The landowners have shown both impatience and patience, and then the cause of the creation of Jostedalsbreen National Park, starting with St.meld. No 25 for 1987-1988 it was a requirement that the national park should not prevent the project from building up power. Together with the entrepreneur company Veideköck ASA, the company Kjøsnesfjorden Kraftverk AS ordered the landowners in 1996 and invited the local energy company Sunnfjord Energi AS to join the owner’s side. After four years of planning and consistency, the company applied in 2000 with four different options for the concession for the construction of the power plant. The company applied primarily for the expansion of option 2, which would give about 230 GWh new power annually. A visual disadvantage of option 2 was that it would be built up road through Søgnesandsdalen. The Minister of Oil and Energy made it very clear early that such a great natural intervention as a road in the Søgnesand Valley would represent could not be accepted. The company also took this challenge and launched an adjusted option 2 where the construction path was built in a tunnel so that the Search sand valley could be protected from road driving. The Minister for Oil and Energy could then, after an overall assessment, go in for the development of the adjusted option 2. When I take this historical point of view, it is to show that the path to the positive recommendation and decision in the Stortinget today has not been simply or simply. We have to take it inward that this force building will take place in the vicinity sometimes within the national park and bring with it permanent interference in nature. The most visible interventions will be at Trollavatnet and, in the event of a reduction in water flow, in Segrova, Lundelva and Søgnesandselva. The majority of the committee, all the non-participating members of the SV, nevertheless think that the concern of the Jostedalsbreen National Park cannot be decisive as to whether or not a concession can be granted. The same plurality in the Committee of My Premonies in the regulation of Trollavatnet and Langevatnet, the transfer of the pelvic input requested, and the construction of Kjøsnesfjorden power plant in accordance with the adjusted option 2 without construction path in Søgnesandsdalen are greater than damage and disadvantages to the general and private interests of the watercourse. Such a solution is in accordance with the NVE subsidiary recommendation. The expansion plans for the power plant have had a broad political connection both in the municipality of Jölster and in the county municipality. The experience of the landscape where the turf rises through the Search sand valley, after the adjusted option 2, will not be shipped as a result of road development, and the minimum water flow in Lundelva is required. Both the municipality of Jölster and Jölster Reiseliv and Service have maintained that the construction path should be open to traffic after the construction was completed. This would have meant that the development costs would have been about 45 million. kr higher. This option has therefore not been considered further. The expansion will eliminate flooding damage in Segrova and Søgnesandsdalen. For those who experience flooding in the river as a danger to life and health and as a tack against buildings, agricultural areas, bridges and roads, the fluttering effect of the expansion will be very valuable. After the majority assessment, the expansion of the adjusted option 2 will result in relatively small interventions in relation to the amount of energy that will be produced. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in this matter and to address the Committee's recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1367	The development of the water force in Kjøsnesfjorden is a big and important thing. Saka has a good part to say for the energy supply, because this expansion will result in an annual production of 228 GWh. The project will increase delivery security in a deferred area, and we will have a reduced network loss. Energy policy is this heavy argument for expansion. When the Storting today gives a clear signal for expansion, there is a point for a long history. For more than 50 years, we've been working to build up power in the area. Originally, things have been driven by local stakeholders. In the final phase Kjøsnesfjorden Kraftverk AS and Sunnfjord Energi AS have been the dominant actors. A central objection to the expansion has been that the expansion intervened in Jostedalsbreen National Park. It is a fact that the extension option chosen will reduce the national park by 1.5 km2. I also don't want to ignore the objection that expansion will lead to some interference in the landscape in a vulnerable area. Of course, there may be a somewhat reduced sense of variation in nature from the mountains down to Kjøsnesfjorden. In an overall assessment of the case, these environmental aspects have an important place. They shall and should pay attention to: Environmental arguments have been carefully evaluated. A broad majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment has concluded that the arguments in favour of expansion are stronger than the arguments for protection. That view I share so decidedly. The distributions that have been made show that the negative consequences of an expansion are moderate compared to the energy production that one achieves. The impact on fish and fish, vegetation, wildlife and pollution will be rather small. On the other hand, when nature protection and traditional outdoor life are involved, the consequences will be clearly negative. However, it is a fact that little of the technical installations will be visible. Mainly, these are placed inside the mountain. For employment and business in the region, the positive consequences are clearly dominant. This is also the main reason why the project has been so widely endorsed by local and county authorities. I want to pay tribute to the concessionist and to the oil and energy minister because they have shown in their own way the ability and willingness to work to a balanced solution. Although the treatment of the case has taken a lot of time, the result has in any case been clearly satisfactory. People who live in the area for which the expansion will follow have pointed out that it will be far safer to live and work in the countryside. When we expand the energy in Kjøsnesfjorden, it will greatly mitigate the risk of flooding and reduce the risk of race. Every day is thus much safer for those who live in the area. Kjøsnesfjorden is located in the municipality of Jölster, one of the many municipalities that are struggling to get enough resources to finance welfare measures for their inhabitants. A power build will provide the municipality with an annual income of approx. 8.5 million. NOK in the form of taxes and charges. In addition, funds come to food funds. This will, of course, represent a new everyday life for those who control the municipality and for those who accept welfare services. In this way, we make sure that the community uses its resources in a constructive and forward-looking way. I am sure that the expansion of energy in Kjøsnesfjorden will also help to ensure that the construction can be secured, and that a good basis for tourism and activities can be laid for maintaining the cultural landscape in the area. It's definitely positive. In this case, we see a good example of new values being created in a community – renewable values that benefit both the community and the community. That's not what the Socialist Left Party wants. Such a negative hold is all reason to notice. An important thing is to say the final solution today. I am very satisfied with that. A lot of people have done a lot of work. I want to commend those who have believed in the project, who have stood the whole distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1393	This is a great day for people in Jölster, who have worked with Sunnfjord Energie AS for many years to realize Kjøsnesfjorden power plants. We also remember that our former colleague, Magne Aarøen, who unfortunately passed away too early, was an avid spokesman for this expansion and the positive effects it will have on the settlements around Jölstravatnet. Modern technology in this case allows a gentle development project, based on the so-called roofing principle, with pelvic entrances and long mountain tunnels. The rapporteur, Mr Liones, gave an excellent account of the project and of the Committee's position. This project is about exploiting a local resource at the request of – almost unanimously – the municipality and county council, where SV was actually included in the majority. Of course, local authorities are also concerned with Kjøsnesfjorden's natural qualities for recreation and visual magnificence, but have nevertheless found a prudent solution, which is largely ensured. The development of power also contributes to flood protection and reduces the risk of race, which has been life-stricken along Kjøsnesfjorden several times. Municipalities and counties are provided with significant revenues in the development, which is not immaterial in a perspective where we want more local self-government and disposal of our own resources for the benefit of the community. I am convinced that local and regional political authorities, including SVs, assess the benefits, disadvantages and consequences of such an expansion in at least as good a way as we do in this room. Moreover, it is those who will continue to live and live in the area, not to say living from the natural resources locally, that people have done in this country for impending times. Another important aspect of the expansion of Kjøsnesfjorden power plants that I want to bring forward is the security of supply in Nordfjord and Sunnfjord. Through this expansion, the region receives 56MW in new magazine-based power, which will reduce today’s uncertainty in an exposed area on the west side of Jostedalsbreen. For business and individual consumers, this will also mean lower network rental, which in this area is actually 10 øre above the national average. In conclusion, this case is a good example of the fact that the Government and the majority of the population are serious about reinvigorating the nation. In the last two years, this government has presented several projects with twice as much hydropower as the Workers' Party did in the seven to eight first years of the 1990s. This time it concerns 230 GWh of new, clean and renewable energy, to the delight of both local and national users.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1422	Let me first of all, like the previous speakers, express my satisfaction at the fact that today, after all, a large majority in the Grand Duchy decides to build up power in Kjøsnesfjorden. In fact, it's been a while since the Stortinget supported a power development project of this size – too long, in my opinion. Over the past eight to ten years, all hydropower projects have either been severely reduced or rejected in their entirety. Examples of this are the extension of Upper Otta, Saltberg/Black and, last but not least, the Sauda extension, where no thanks were given to 0,5 TWh clean, new power without significant natural interference. So they said no to a force that is more than twice what we're dealing with today. Throughout this period, policy intervention has been active and prevented the necessary increase in production of electricity. The Progress Party has warned against the consequences of this, and the same warnings have also come from, among others. NVE and Statnett – but unfortunately for no use. It goes without saying that with an even increase in power consumption without producing more power, it has to go wrong, and it has done so emphatically. Last winter's power crisis at risk of disconnection and rationalization showed how bad it is when you actively intervene and prevent power build-up. This policy intervention was also the direct cause of the explosive evolution in the current price we had, which forced thousands to go the heavy road to the social office to get help with the power bill. Although I agree with the Government's conclusion in this matter, I still find reason to ask questions about the procedure, which seems very inconsistent. When we recently treated the Sauda extension, we had a positive attitude from the NVE. It was almost not a natural intervention of importance in that case. There we felt that the government put the NVE's view aside and halved the expansion. In this case, the NVE's view is also taken into account and goes for development, despite the fact that this is actually some kind of natural intervention. I have problems hanging out in the swings here, because the government's handling of this is short and well unrelated. I had therefore greatly appreciated whether the Council of State could give us an explanation of this. I also find the NVE's attitude in this matter something special. I was in the belief that the NVE would make professional assessments of such projects and assess, for example, the amount of force against any natural interference. In this case, however, we experience that the NVE is basing political signals from Stortinget’s processing of the Landfill Communication on the hydropower and power balance and from the Sem Declaration. And then NVE writes that ‘It is important to point out the need for a political assessment of the emphasis on the need for a new force in relation to environmental considerations’. I therefore think the NVE's behaviour in this matter is alarming, to say it carefully. For the sake of order, I would just like to end by reminding you that the Progress Party did not support the negative attitude towards further power expansion that emerged when the Stortinge dealt with the notification of the hydropower and the power balance. But we called for both upgrading and expansion of existing power plants, in addition to new hydroelectric power stations, where this does not have a serious impact on nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1449	I take up the proposal from SV and ask that the proposal be set up against the setting. Let me first thank the Right and the Workers' Party for their touching care in relation to the fact that SV and the environmental movement in this matter are opposed to development. Among other things, the starting point is that we make sure that the municipalities do not get the income and incentive they need in everyday life, for example. Jölster municipality. The challenge for the parties, the government party and the Labour Party, which now have the majority in relation to the budget, is to ensure that the municipalities get an economy that prevents them from pushing forward expansions in violation of important interests in nature and the environment. The semi-declaration states the following: «In view of the natural experiences of future generations, there is a restrictive attitude towards the further development of watercourses.» It sounds great, and it should be a belief would have consequences in the practical reality. But in this case, the NVE says they understood the political signals, based on what I was reading, as if they were going to oppose the expansion of the Kjøsnesfjord. Nevertheless, the government chooses to go in for this expansion, despite the professional advice you have asked for – and received. Then the question and challenge from SV's side, which has always consistently inhabited the government's multiplicity for the best environmental solutions: what's now going to happen, when we soon get tissue and birch cream? Will we get the same hold there? Would it not accept the invitation provided by SV at any time for the benefit of a more restrictive watercourse development, in accordance with what is stated in the Sem statement? SV also offers multiple numbers for proposals that can give us 20 TWh new strength by 2010. Today we have put forward a proposal on bioenergy. In the past, we have put forward a number of proposals that will provide enough energy in a natural way into the Norwegian market. Among other things, by clearing up the PCB luminaire problem in public buildings, a power can be obtained. Thus, Kjøsnesfjorden is a collective environmental movement plus SV for many reasons, not only because a destruction – I kept saying – the beautiful painting that Nicolai Astrup has drawn and painted from the area, or because it simply ends there that will disappear. There's a lot of reasons to go against this. For example: is a bit up-to-date and sees what National Geographic describes as the world's best tourist destination, among other things. Norwegian fjords. There's a lot of them now to destroy by going to this operation that you're now doing, in Kjøsnesfjorden. Here's one of the dangerous ways: if you think about the tourist destination, you also have to think that if you're going to get tourists here, you're going to have to preserve our natural qualities. This is also an intervention in the national park itself, and it is really worrying. When a person now leaves the area where he is believed to be protected — in fact, moving into the national parks — there is danger. What about all the national parks that Børge Burnde creates? Can a next round just go in and intervene, like a do here in the valley of Joste? This is not good, and it might create a precedent for future things. What is certain is that one takes away important natural qualities in this area, thereby weakening an experience value that SV and many environmental and nature organisations have pointed to. So SV does not go in to give this concession. We go to the professional board, which tends to be very eager to listen to – I quote: «NVE my guided tours in St.meld. No 37 on the hydropower and power balance and the Sem declaration on increasing the emphasis on environmental concerns in the future management of watercourse resources require a change in view of the assessments made in the management of the project.» [[2000-2001]] SV is completely in agreement with the professional bodies in this matter, and it surprises us that the government party and the government are not joining it. Then they had multiples.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1481	The President will note that it must be because of a misunderstanding that paintings or other works of art will be damaged by the expansion. It is very rare that expansion has retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1484	The staging shall today agree that Kjøsnesfjorden Kraftverk is authorised to deploy power in the Jølster watercourse at Kjøsnesfjorden. For the Government, it has been important to arrive at a development solution that reduces interference in nature and the environment. The option now selected represents a significantly more environmentally friendly development than the one developed by the Total Plan. The Ministry has also obtained a solution through dialogue with the builder to limit the technical interventions in the Søgnesandsdalen through the introduction of the construction path into the tunnel of the regulators. Compared to the amount of energy that will be produced, the expansion of the Kjøsnesfjord results in relatively small physical interventions. Part of the extension will be carried out in the border zone of Jostedalsbreen National Park. For the Government, it has been essential that the Storting in the establishment of the National Park provided that the establishment would not impede the power development project at Kjøsnesfjorden. I am pleased that the majority of the committee has joined the Government here. The power development project at Kjøsnesfjorden will make a significant contribution of approximately 230 GWh per year. years for the country's energy production, while enhancing local security of supply. Last year the Stortingen agreed to the Government's proposal for further expansion in the Saudafjellene. As revealed by St.meld. No 18, On security of supply for electricity, the Government has only granted a concession in the last two years for the development of new hydroelectric power projects with a production capacity of approximately 1.2 TWh per years. It is therefore not right, as the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party claim, that there is no political will to re-establish hydropower. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party also point out what they consider to be an inconsistent practice in hydroelectric matters, as the representative, Mr Vaksdal, said in his statement today, by discouraging the Government in the Sauda case and in this case the NVE’s positions. In the vast majority of hydropower cases, the NVE’s professional position is at the heart of its decisions. However, the final assessment of the NVE’s suspension is to be made by the Ministry. In order to ensure proper decisions, therefore, the Ministry must make a broad political assessment on issues that generate high levels of societal involvement. That's why we're in the department. In some cases, this may lead to a different result from that of the NVE. It shouldn't surprise anyone. In this case, the NVE has also pointed out the need for a political assessment of the relationship between development and protection. It is this political discretion that is exercised in this matter. The government has given significant emphasis to the large local and regional opening-up of the project. During the whole process, the Jölster municipality has committed itself strongly to the development. I have to confess that I have rarely seen such uplifting of a power development from the district as in this case. A benefit for the municipality of Jölster is, of course, that the project generates increased revenue from concession fees, industrial funds and taxation, as well as increased employment and value creation during the construction period. It is worth noting in this particular case that the population along the Kjøsnesfjord experiences floods as a threat to population, agricultural land and infrastructure. The development of the Jölster watercourse will lead to the risk of large damage floods almost disappearing, thus contributing to the settlement in the area. I would also like to mention that Jölstravatnet and Kjøsnesfjorden are already regulated for power generation. With the expansion now adopted, the output of the power plants below will increase by about 5 GWh per. years. For me, the Kjøsnesfjord is an example that there is still a political will to achieve a socially correct hydropower development with significant power generation and moderate intervention. I am therefore very pleased that the Stortinget will today give its support to the expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1511	As I said in my article earlier, I am pleased with the outcome of this case, although the procedure seems to be something strange and the government's way of acting very inconsistently. I register that the Council of State has obviously noticed the criticism from our side. It seems as if the Government and the NVE have changed their role here, so that it is now the NVE that operates politics, while at the same time the Government, at least apparently, makes professional assessments. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether the Department has contributed to such a change of role by sending political signals to the NVE. And if not, is the government comfortable with such a situation and with such a change of role?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1518	I have to say that I think it's funny, in order to use a mild expression, that the Progress Party also in this case, where they actually agree with the Government in a hydroelectric expansion, is able to produce the most suspicious and pessimistic sounds. On a joyous day for all the villagers in Sogn and Fjordane and for the municipalities around Jölstravatnet, a post that would almost indicate that now the night darkness slowly and safely sinks over Sogn and Fjordane. That's good work! The fact is that in this case most, if not all, parties in Sogn and Fjordane agree that this is a sensible measure. I record that SV at Stortinget has a different view, but this is actually a sustainable, secure project. As far as the NVE is concerned, I am sure that they have the independent, professional integrity that they maintain, and that they make their recommendations to the ministry in the best professional sense. But it has to be possible to make a political judgement. That's why we're sitting in the department, and that's why Stortinget has the opportunity to make his views known.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1527	The President will remind the Council of State that it is also possible to look for things you can have the pleasure of being annoyed by.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1530	That's very well said. I hope Steensnæs does not behave too much in the dark, but that he thrives in the light, and that he might see that light SV holding up, in relation to which policy he should choose in the future. It's kind of weird, what's happening today. As I said in my post, NVE believes that in the matter of hydropower and power balance, and in the Sem statement, there are so strict leaders – that is, the leaders to whom the Government and Steensnæs themselves have put up – that they say that they must go against that basis. And then one can also clearly read that there should be a more restrictive policy, but it is not today. I need Steensnæs to explain it to me. In addition, I would like to hear about the liberalisation that is currently taking place in relation to energy policy and development policy, which will have implications for future watercourse development. Bjerkrim and Wefsna.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1541	As an encouragement to the Council of State on its way up to the pulpit, the President may recall that in a book known to the Council of State, it is about the children of light.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1544	The representative of Langeland recalls an important aspect of all power deployment, and it is essential that a balance be drawn between such development plans and the key environmental and natural interventions considerations. It has been done thoroughly in this setting, for example. through a dialogue with the builder, we have rejected the principle proposal that is being developed and have been given the authority to send a revised application, where a path through the Søgnesandsdalen has been put in the tunnel to save the terrain and make the intervention as visible as possible. I'm very pleased with that dialogue. The second thing I would like to remind you is that when the National Park was dealt with, there was a clear exception in the case of a possible power development project in Kjøsnesfjorden, that the construction of the national park should not prevent the development of power. Finally, I would like to point out that SV in Sogn and Fjordane, as far as I understand, has also been positive for the project. All of this together has made me confident that the government's conclusion and the majority's agreement are based on sound, good practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-11.ana.ud1692e1553	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. [[See page 224]] The President will now cancel the meeting, and a new meeting will be held at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
