ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e49	The representative of Ola D. Glötvold will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e52	On behalf of the great representative Eli Sollied Överaas and myself, I would like to make a proposal to prohibit the acquisition, possession and use of doping drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e57	The representative of May Hansen will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e60	On behalf of Mr. Inga Marte Thorkildsen and myself, I would like to make proposals for the establishment of crisis centres for children in the five child protection regions. And on behalf of Mr. Inga Marte Thorkildsen and myself, I will put forward proposals to introduce a new model for questioning children who are exposed to or are witnesses to a traumatic crisis situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e67	The representative of Mr Kjetil Bjørklund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e70	On behalf of the representatives of Kristin Halvorsen, Øystein Djupedal and myself, I would like to propose that Norway go in favour of the arms embargo and other forms of sanctions against Israel and contribute to an international debate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e75	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning sitting - if necessary - continue beyond the time of regulation. 15 to the current map has been completed. - No objection has been raised against the President's proposal, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e90	The President shall request a proposal for a new alternate to the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e93	I suggest Rita Tveiten.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e100	Jens Stoltenberg has proposed Rita Tveiten as a new alternate to the Electoral Committee after Leif Lund. Other proposals are not available, and the President assumes that they can be voted in the usual way. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e111	It was so far that the Storting managed to make this election while there were still enough people in the hall. The president thinks it's strange that people start walking when the president has brought up a case for a vote. But now it's passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e127	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e142	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e151	Where the State is required to sell properties, businesses or shares - or in any case - this usually becomes large or large. Usually large amounts will be involved, and the public, the media, parts of business and other parts of society will be involved in the process. As regards this case, the conditions surrounding the sale of SND Invest AS, a number of claims were made in the media that eventually led the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to decide on the matter. The purpose of setting up the company was to promote business and socio-economic economical economical development in the country as a whole, not least in relation to certain vulnerable industries and certain vulnerable districts, to contribute to profitability and profitable employment in districts with particular difficulties in employment and where there was a weakly developed business base, by investing in shares and providing responsible loans, mainly in relation to small or medium-sized enterprises or venture companies. This was the idea. SND Invest AS was therefore to be one of the country's tools to ensure a sustainable business life throughout the country. This is important and will also be an important premise in assessing the manner in which the sale should be made. But then the question is, Had Stortinget given permission to sell? For the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 on 6 December 2001 the Stortinget took a decision empowering the Government to "put up and implement the sale of the shares in SND Invest AS". However, a minute or two later, the Stortinget took a further decision, which states: "Proposals are made to empower the Government to sell the State's shares as proposed in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 as set out in the proposal for Decision XII only after the Storting has dealt with the Government's announced ownership notification." [[2001-2002]] The majority of the Economic and Social Committee gave reasons for this, inter alia: that in recent years the Stortinget had taken a number of decisions on the extent of state ownership in individual Norwegian industrial companies, and that there was now a need to discuss issues related to the exercise and extent of state ownership on a more fundamental basis, before any new commitments were made to change the country’s ownership positions. The majority see that this last decision repeals the first, and that no authorisation for sale was granted. It was not a decision that put a definitive stop to any form of further sale of State shares, but it provided that the Government returned to the question in connection with or after the Storting treatment of the ownership notification. In the announcement of ownership which was dealt with here in the Chamber in June 2002, i.e. half a year after the previous decisions, the Government refers to the first decision and further states: "As part of this process, it is stipulated that the shares of SND Invest AS are transferred from SND to the Ministry of Industry and Trade." The decision to stop the sale until further notice is not mentioned, nor is this decision later mentioned in any case concerning this sale. So the decision that stopped the sale until now is not mentioned, and no new decision will be taken here in Stortinget. Accordingly, the Government relies on a decision which has been suspended by a subsequent decision and systematically fails to mention this decision on this occasion and on subsequent occasions. Now it will be claimed that the Storting should have seen and made sure that things were handled correctly. However, it will be the responsibility of the Government to follow the decisions taken by the Stortinget, and if anything is unclear or impossible for the Government to comply, the Government must return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner. The majority therefore believe that when the sales process was started in 2002, it was not authorised to sell. If there had been a power of sale, it would not in any way have given the Government any time limit for the execution of the sale, with reference to what appears in St. prp. No 1 for 2001-2002, where, inter alia: is: "It is underlined that there will be no requirement for the use of powers within specified time limits. The implementation of any changes in the country's assets in individual companies will depend on commercial considerations, market development in general, exchange price developments, strategic conditions relating to individual companies, etc. The Ministry will therefore generally have no view of when it may be appropriate to use the powers proposed." This was not met at any point by Stortinget, and therefore there was no pressure or expectation of immediate sale. The sale occurred at a market very unfavourable time and with significant discounts, which according to SND Invest itself were above 50 pst. of the real values when tax relationships are excluded. Now it's easy to be a follow-up clock. It was not easy to see when the sale was carried out, how the market would develop. But when the values we're talking about here are about $1 billion, a discount of 50 pst. provide for a staggering amount of money. This should have led to a reassessment, especially since there was no pressure for sale at that time, at least not a political or an economic pressure. But I recognize that there may have been a strong ideological pressure that pushed the Council of State in the back. Nevertheless, more than 600000 kroner have been paid to obtain a qualified assessment of the company's value and then to sell it for half the price. No other owner in an unpressed situation could have allowed himself to do the same. The quoted shares were also sold at a significant discount in relation to listing on the sales day. The value was 192 million. NOK, but they were sold for approx. 60 million. NOK below this amount. There had been several options for the execution of the sale. The Board of Directors of SND Invest argued that a phased winding-up over a five-year period would be the best solution. You could then close the company, as it is called, leave the shares in a fund and have an administrator or a management company who would be responsible for the sale over time. Now we did not listen to this Council. The Council of State had purchased other advisers who gave advice to others, and it would be up to the Council of State to choose the advice he considers appropriate. But it's amazing to the majority that the company's board was so categorically disregarded in the process. There is a certain logic in being able to claim that the board, with its experience with the company, had to have been an asset in the sales process. The majority is also amazed that there could be a conflict of interest between the board and the owner in this case. Our perception is that every government has the owner's interest as a guide to its work and dispositions. If this is not the case, the owner will replace the board. When the call for tenders was made, it was a prerequisite that it should be sold collectively. Many showed interest, but at the end of the process, three potential buyers returned, two of whom joined the exclusive negotiations. One of these, Four Seasons Venture IV AS, had always made it clear that one was not the buyer of the listed shares, while the other, Wiik and Forest, did not see the possibility of being stuck with the entire listed portfolio. They were not given the opportunity to enter the market to assess the resale of the listed shares, as Wiik and Forest were concerned, while Four Seasons conducted negotiations with DnB Markets in agreement with the Ministry. It was finally Four Seasons who got the hit, and the government announced the Stortinget: "The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade sold the shares of SND Invest AS to Four Seasons Venture IV AS for SEK 549.8 million." This means that the company had bought the whole, including the listed shares. A classic understanding of the term "buying" is that someone pays an agreed or stipulated sum for something, and this "something" then changes the owner. Four Seasons never paid a penny for the listed shares, and they did not hold the ownership of those shares for a single second. In other words, Four Seasons was not the buyers of the listed shares, but had facilitated sales from the state to DnB Markets. The shares were sold directly to DnB Markets, and it was DnB Markets who paid for what the State should have. No owner of these shares existed between the time at which the State owned the shares and the time at which DnB Markets owned them. Four Seasons therefore did not need equity to make this purchase and thus received a competitive advantage over their competitor, who had not given this opportunity to come around the purchase of the quoted shares. Summarized, there is a basis for claiming that the management of the sale failed in some areas, and I would recommend Stortinget to join the setting in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e216	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee at Stortinget has a special role to play in our parliamentary system. On behalf of the Stortinget, the Committee shall be a supervisory body vis-à-vis the Government and Administration. As the sole committee of the Stortinget, this committee has so-called autonomous right of initiative. This means that the Committee may decide, on its own initiative, to open a case and present its views to the plenary assembly on almost any matter. For the majority, no case is either too small or too large in that way, nor too complex. This means that from time to time the majority will be harmed to overestimate their own competence, as in this case, or abuse the control committee to re-combat matters that have previously been lost here in the Chamber. Because what do we see here? Well, that the majority without being distracted or adjourned by the facts of the matter draws imaginative conclusions and makes undocumented claims. It is both disappointing and frightening that the majority of national Parliaments are resorting to such an easy-to-use procedure. The control committee has received approximately 2 000 pages of documentation from the Minister of Industry, in addition to having had an open consultation with the parties. However, in such a complex case, the Committee has chosen to use only one meeting to deal with the vote, namely a meeting yesterday at 5 p.m. 12, which took a whole 15 minutes, where the case was dismissed. The lack of interest of the majority in an independent assessment is underlined by the fact that the Riksrevision’s routine review of this sale, which is likely to take place in a few months’ time, has not been awaited. So in such a complex case, it is not interesting what the Riksrevision's assessment of the matter is. Or could it be that the majority of the committee is aware that facts do not support a particular conclusion? In the press community, one sometimes talks about the term "never check a good story," because it will destroy the scandalous resolution. All of this underlines that the Committee has not been concerned with the facts of the matter, but only with political games. I have some of my more prominent committee colleagues suspected of suffering from the so-called inquired disease, a disease that has a bleak tendency to need the closer to the end of the spring session we're coming. And the abstinence of political noise and action is becoming more and more annoying. A majority argues in the preamble that the Minister of Industry has not been authorised to sell SND Invest, despite the fact that the case has been in Stortinget both in the context of the 2002 State Budget, in the spring of 2002, in the ownership notice, in the discussion of the instrument proposal in spring 2003 and in the context of the receipt of the approval of the sale in autumn 2003. The mandate is also mentioned in the 2003 State Budget. This authority has not been questioned in any of these proceedings. It is also the same authority that underlies the sales of Arcus and Olivin, which Stortinget has also dealt with, without any comments. In addition, let me ask the case rapporteur a question. The Labour Party and the Advance Party agreed on a proposal to withdraw the authorisation to sell SND Invest. The proposal did not receive a majority, but the majority of the Storting, consisting of the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV, voted on 18 June 2003 to put an end to the sale. The question is: why in the world would there be a need to propose to stop the sale and withdraw the authorisation for sale if such an authorisation had not already been granted? This falls on its own unreasonableness. The majority also criticises that the sale of the shares in SND Invest was not anchored by the general meeting of the company. Well, this just shows how lack of insight, coupled with haste, gives strange results. the annual meeting has no role in the sale of the shares in the company. Only where it was to be sold from the portfolio of SND Invest is this relevant and there it was held a general meeting with the National Audit Office. Only in October 2003, 22 months after the mandate was given, the sale was carried out, following a very extensive process involving a number of stakeholders. The fact that in the final round there were first three, then two stakeholders, also underlines that there was strong competition to pay the most for SND Invest. There was a strong emphasis on non-discrimination between the different stakeholders in the final phase of the bidding round. The sale was therefore carried out at market prices, as a total sale of a portfolio. In total, the government received approx. NOK 1.2 billion through the sale of SND Invest. At the beginning of 2003, the Oslo Stock Exchange index was 105. At the time of sale, the index had risen to 150. Hardly any of the so-called experts believed that the index would continue to rise. In the financial paper we were able to read the following statement from the manager of Telenor Venture, Rune Rinnan in the autumn of 2003: "They must be eager if they don't sell the SND Invest portfolio for 500 million. I believe the SND Invest portfolio is worth $200-270 million. No more." No, this ends up as a solid political bellyplate for the opposition, or said in another way: Up like a lion and down like a skin trap.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e245	I think the government council had served with a slightly different defensive tone than the Martin Engeset now chose on behalf of the government parties or the Right. With regard to this with the mandates, I will refer you to the rapporteur's statement of the matter, to which I agree. Then I want to focus on the two conditions that I find very critical. First, it was said by Martin Engeset that this was a complicated matter. Yes, some things are complicated. But there are also a lot of simple things, and the simple is often the best. When the Council of State was to initiate the liquidation of SND Invest AS, because there was a liquidation that was actually to be carried out, there were of course two ways to do so. One was to give the board and the administration a message to implement the liquidation in the best possible way. The other thing was to get others to do it. I ask the question, who had the best knowledge of the companies that were in the SND Invest AS portfolio? Yes, the administration. This was a venture company. What they were doing was buying and selling shares, after political leadership, and also political purposes. But they actually participated in the board and the development of the company. It was the administration that had the best knowledge of the companies that SND Invest had invested in. It's totally indisputable. The board and the administration made loyal proposals. Regardless of what was meant by whether to wind up or not, they proposed how best to do so. I would have understood if the government's choice of method and speed were due to his being anxious that another government and another majority in Stortinget would have stopped the sale at a later stage. It's a political assessment I have the sense of. But the model presented by the board was fully legal so that a government after any government change could not have reversed the decisions. It was confirmed in the hearing. In other words, you could have done the natural and natural thing - followed the board's advice and let the board and the administration do this work. It'd probably cost hundreds of millions of dollars, maybe up to 500 million dollars. kr, more in the treasury. Four Seasons also confirmed in the hearing that they expected to make such an amount on this. That's one very critical thing. Instead of making it simple and obvious, letting the board and the administration, who had the best knowledge, carry out the sale and liquidation also in a sound and sensible way with the eyes of the companies, chose the council for some remarkable reason to engage Steenstrup Stordrange and choose the individual as advisers and pay for advice you did not need, because you put yourself on the best expertise, in the board and in the administration. That is one very critical aspect. It's not complicated. It's simple. The second is the final call. Once again, I refer you to a very good statement from the case-rapporteur, Mr. Engeset, who shows that at best Martin Engeset must have spoken against better knowledge when he claims that the shares were sold together. So it's an indisputable fact that the buyer, Four Seasons Venture IV, never owned the listed shares. It's actually a fact that they didn't need the equity that the competitors needed. So when Martin Engeset says that they were sold together, it is de facto a mistake. They were not sold together. The listed persons went directly to someone other than the buyer of the package. This has favoured one of the providers, and this is not the way a department, a government council, behaves. Thereby, too, there is a suspicion that you have other interests. I'm not supposed to claim that. However, if the Storting here had not spoken out in an outlaw decision, the only other options would have been either to appoint a protocol committee to assess the case under Section 10 of the Liability Act, or it would have been mistrusted. The store would not have done its job as a supervisor and would have lost its credibility as a supervisor. We have to do that job, regardless of whether we ever think that Ansgar Gabrielsen is a very pleasant and kind colleague that we have had in this house. We have to do our control job.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e262	I too would like to join the rapporteur's statement. I want to address this with powers, because I think that's an important point. It is a fact that the Stortinget agreed on 6 December 2001 that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade would be authorised to make arrangements to implement the sale of shares in SND Invest. But what's obvious is that two minutes later, the majority of the depositors said that before authorisation was given to sell the shares, the ownership notification was to be dealt with, and the government would then give the Storting the opportunity to decide on the sale of the shares. The councils never did. The Council of State did not have the power to sell. In spite of this, he and the department initiated the sales processes without authority. Not until 18 June last year, far out in the sales process, it is assumed that the Council of State had authority, because there was then a proposal, and there was a majority in favour of the sale not being stopped. It is this relationship that is serious and critical, for the Council of State should have known that it was the last decision that was taken on 6 December 2001 which was the valid decision. Then it is not possible to hide behind the posts of other representatives in the hall or the comments of other parties, as the government party has done in this matter. It is the task of the executive authority to facilitate the Storting with the information required by the Storting. At no time did the Council of State question the fact that he had no authority or prepared with the Storting whether he had authority. It was the duty of the Council of State to do so, as the Advocate General also said in his statement. The next question you have to ask yourself is: was it right, what the Council informed the Storting in the autumn of 2003, that they quoted and unlisted the shares were sold in one package? Yes, it's up to you to ask questions, because the quoted shares were never owned by Four Seasons Ventures. Four Seasons Venture had negotiated an agreement with the DnB Market, but the State entered into that agreement. The next question is: If you had a mandate, was the sales process managed so that the community's resources were properly preserved? The majority in the Committee are clear that this was not done. This is not done by the majority following a cumbersome procedure. Most likely, the state missed out on several hundred million dollars in the way that sales were handled. The Council of State chose to ignore the advice given by the board of directors and management of SND Invest, and here I fully agree with the representative Carl I. Hagen. In fact, it is the right of an owner to listen to the advice that the owner has to listen to, but it is critical that those who had acquired the skills by investing in companies, those who knew the companies and helped develop them to then sell with profit, that is, not being listened to. The SND Invest management reported that the time of sale was the most unfavourable in ten years, and that in a led winding-up over a few years, the gain would have been greater for the state. That's exactly what the buyer Four Seasons Venture has done. They have entered and bought the unlisted shares. They're waiting to sit with them for a few years and then sell with profit. The result of the government's procedure was that the state did not get the money that the state should have, among other things. that it was sold with large discounts. Finally, a comment on the insinuation of the government parties that the majority is criticising for cutting political points. It would be totally irresponsible to give criticism to score political points, and I am not impressed by Martin Engeset's defence in this way either. The majority have gone into this matter with great seriousness. Realities suggest a criticism in the form of a reprimand to the Council of State. That's what the majority agrees with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e281	The District Development Fund, later SND, has been an important traveler and partner for companies, municipalities and establishers for the years that we have behind us, and is still there today. I am well aware of the establishment of the equity system in 1992. This was an important election theme in the 1993 election. The challenges were many. Specially new start-ups had too weak equity. There is a lot to say about the industrial policy of shifting labour party governments, but in common with them, it seems that under the regime it is difficult to build up the necessary capital, which is so important for enterprises to have a potential for growth and for a future. After she had worked for some time, one found out that the SND equity arrangement was to be separated as an owned AS. Later, SND Invest's profile changed and went over more and more to follow operations in several stages of development. So they went heavier into a single roof. The single investment ceiling increased from 125 million. NOK 200 million. 2001 kr. In other words - SND Invest became more and more an investment company in line with other private companies for the same purpose. In retrospect, it is easy to see that the mandate of the Minister of Industry to sell out this department and to use the released capital of a new district fund was sensible and forward-looking. It is beyond doubt that the Council of State was authorized to sell the company. An attempt to stop this was made in Stortinget and therefore rejected. The opposition here has created a case where the truth to say is not a matter. It might seem that a person here has come to a conclusion in advance, and then it doesn't make any sense and it doesn't matter. The normal thing about the sale of works is that owners decide this in consultation with their board of directors. In this case, the department was in charge of the sale, after notification from the Stortinget. The price of the axes has been another anchor point. Yes, it will always be. Buying and selling on the open market will always be a supply and demand issue. So here too. So it was also at the sale of 67 pst. by the Arcus axes, carried out by the Stoltenberg government. So, of course, one can ask if the price of these was good or too low. When the rest of the Arcus axes were sold last year, the price was considerably better--and this after significant dividends were drawn out. But once again, this is going to be speculation and post-clocking. I don't want to make any claims that the Minister of Industry of the Stoltenberg administration at the time of the sale didn't get the price that was achievable, even if things point to it. I must be allowed to say that, in fact, it seemed that the opposition here has an unusually bad case. The posterity and conclusion of the Riksrevision's routine investigations will tell if it really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e307	The central party agrees with the majority's conclusions and agrees that the term "strongly critical" can be used for several of the actions or lack of action mentioned in this clause. The centre party strongly opposed the sale of SND Invest. SND Invest was a very important state owner, important to the many companies that then gained better access to capital, and important to the state because SND Invest was an active, state owner who was represented in the boards of very many companies. It was a very important competence that was built here. SND Invest was the owner of many farms, especially in the districts and in the fishing industry in the north. SND Invest was a particularly important owner, who in many cases was involved with the small shareholders. SND Invest contributed to the court’s overestimation of forced redemptions for minority shareholders, e.g. in Norway Seafoods. It would not have happened without SND Invest. The financial results seem to be good. 5 pst. the annual rate of return is indicated in the adjustment. In comparison, the oil fund has done 3.7 pst. on the whole of its portfolio, but on the portfolio of shares, the return is significantly lower. SND Invest prioritised districts and district industries higher than other investors and was an important compliment to them. Today's Business also deserves commendation in this matter for the precious urgency of the Council of State in the light. The Council of State has on many occasions highlighted its competence as a seller of state activities. I do not sell chickens in rainstorms, is one of his well-known statements. So it turns out that that's exactly what he's done in this case as well. It was a very strong and long-lasting rainstorm before this sale was made. Governments have achieved a spectacularly low price due to the time and manner in which the sale was made. The financial loss for the state can be several hundred million dollars. It is very critical that the Council of State has managed the assets of the State so badly. It may seem that fast sales have been the only goal - costing what it will cost. The Central Party agrees with the majority of the Committee that the State Council has not obtained the necessary power to sell SND Invest. An authorisation to prepare a sale and an authorisation to submit an application for a mandate is different from having an authorisation. It is critical that the company's board of directors and management were not used more actively in the preparation of the sale. In the final question, a letter came from the board with strong warnings, pointing out that there was a discount on such a large sale of about 50 pst. It was documented by the company's board of directors. Then at least the process should have been stopped. That's what the Central Party thinks is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e324	It's not all the world you get to say about this matter in five minutes. But the picture that's tried to draw around the sale of SND Invest, I'd say at best is suitable to confuse. So I'm going to try to go through the maybe two or three of the most important points, as they appear in the opinion of the committee, where it might have been the most central link to the mandate. On 6 December 2001, the Board of Directors authorised the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade to "make arrangements for and implement a sale of the shares in SND Invest". It has been claimed, even today, that this decision was supported by a subsequent decision that evening. My interpretation of it is pretty clear. It is just a little troubling that the members of the Business Committee who were in those negotiations are not present, especially of course the representative Hedstrøm. What was the case was that we had asked for a power of attorney to sell 13 companies, as stated in St.prp. No 1, Appendix No 4th@item: inlistbox It was not the Stortinget's willingness to give authority to. That was a lot of companies. But there were four companies in which the Stortinget was prepared to decide to give a mandate, and there were the companies Moxy Trucks AS, in Arcus, AS Olivin and SND Invest. I have not heard any indication at any time until now in the last two or three months that the decision that was taken two minutes later applied to the four companies. It applied, as far as it is possible to interpret this, the nine others. It is the interpretation I have used in countless documents for the Storting, and there have been countless debates in this Chamber on this. That's what we used when we sold the rest of Arcus and announced the Riksrevision and announced the Stortinget. That's what we did when we sold in AS Olivin and announced the Riksrevisionen and Stortinget. That's what was the idea when we tried to sell Moxy Trucks before they went bankrupt. We couldn't do that. So we weren't healthy enough in that area. I have to say that after studying all the settings and documents that have gone to Stortinget, and all the debates, I have not heard one word or found one letter indicating that someone in this room has had a different understanding of it. We have also not received any comments from the Riksrevision that we have based on an understanding that is incorrect. I have an unconditional impression that the office that works with these things every day has exactly the same respect for the Riksrevision that I have, that is, that what we do is to be within the powers set by the Storting. I assume I had a proxy. However, I record that a majority in the committee is of a different opinion. Another question is whether a reasonable price has been achieved. So, first of all, the sale of SND Invest was not an urgent matter. We spent 22 months doing that process, after doing all the research, legal and financial, and other necessary research that we do in this kind of case. I cannot, with my best will, understand that in that area, we have not done what is necessary to dispose of state property. I have not seen, either in the media, in settings, in the debate or elsewhere, what I would like to call detected errors that make you say that you are sure you could have achieved a different and better price for this. So there was a question as to whether the time of sale was reasonable. At least it was in 2003 that the stock exchange had increased by 50 pst. from the turn of the year until October when we sold. It might be that someone would have said the day that it would probably increase 30 pst. Could not To draw a little analogy to other issues that have been dealt with: when the labor party government introduced Telenor on the summer, when it went to the Stortinget, it was suggested in the document that it would bring about 200 billion kroner in value for that company. The stock market introduction six months later showed that the company was worth between 60 and 80 billion kroner. It was not that what was presented in the Proposition of Stortinget was wrong. It was just that things had changed. Of course, one should have sold at the time when it was worth NOK 200 billion, not when it was worth less than half. It says that the community missed 100 billion kroner. It becomes a little bit hopeless to operate along these lines. The time has thus been exhausted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e343	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e346	With regard to the interpretation of the decisions concerning the mandate, I will not bother the Council of State with that. If he's interpreted it this way, it's at least the majority's opinion that it's a wrong interpretation, and he should have come back to the Stortinget to have it clarified in that case. I am surprised that the Council of State believes it is so obvious that this last decision was reserved for a number of companies. It refers to this decision that was taken, which states that shares should not be sold until a review has been carried out. What I want to ask the Council of State, in order to get it clear at least: It was announced to Stortinget that the Ministry of Economic Affairs sold the shares of SND Invest AS to Four Seasons for SEK 549.8 million. So they sold it all to Four Seasons. Is there a proper production for Stortinget that the entire portfolio was sold to Four Seasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e357	My answer to that question is a clear yes. It is clear that there are many technicalities in terms of purchases and sales in general. The representative spoke in his main post about a "classical understanding". What is it now, a "classical understanding" of a sale? Everyone who has worked with the right to purchase and sell knows that there are many concepts that require long investigations to be able to see the content. But let me say it this way: it's not unknown that you buy a building complex or an island group, it's either Bolärne or elsewhere with a sea of buildings, and before this transaction is completed, before it's overjoined, the new owner may already have resold the property without the money being in any cash. It is sold directly to another owner or third owner. That's exactly what happened. The state asked for a bid on an overall package and received two bids. We asked for a split in price to be able to look at the risk of loss in the 14 days before closing. The shares were transferred directly to DnB Markets from the state, but the state could not do so without the consent of Four Seasons, which was the real owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e368	I have two questions for the Council of State. Firstly, what is his explanation as to why the board's proposal on the disposal procedure was not followed, a board he has said he has confidence in? I assume that the Council of State agrees that the administration of SND Invest AS was the ones who had the best knowledge of the companies in the portfolio, especially the unlisted. Then it would be natural for those who could most make the sale. Why was the solution of the board not chosen? The second question is to extend the answer just given by the Council of State. He considers it to be the sale of an overall package, although it is documented that it has not happened. If the answer is no, why did the other competitor not get information that the Council of State interpretation was that it should not be sold together, but that one could sell parts of the package directly without it being listed as a direct sale? Did the other one offer that knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e377	Let me make it clear: the board of SND Invest had my trust. There is no board member or board member in any company that does not have my trust. I nevertheless chose the council away from the board. If I've done it 50 or 100 times during this period in different companies, I don't know, but it's not like you automatically take the board's recommendations about the ownership arrangements you're going to do, too good fish and as optimal. It was so that there could be double interests in that board. It was also the case that the board's administration and board of directors were called to the department, precisely because there could be such a double interest. There was, in fact, agreement between the Administrative Board and the Department that this could be the case, and so we set up a special race. That we didn't follow the advice doesn't mean I didn't trust the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e384	I am amazed that the Council of State cannot show a little more humility to the criticism that comes out here. It's like there's no basis for that criticism at all! What the Storting is probably going to do today is that you decide to give the council a reprimand. That's the closest Big City can come mistrust. It is the first time in recent times that this type of criticism has been adopted. I recommend the Council of State to show some more humility, to jeopardize something more down. I would like to ask the Council of State: is there not any kind of basis for the criticism that the majority makes on the basis of both the hearings, the information that has emerged, and all that we have gone through in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e393	I can admit that in the name of the game you might become clearer and more concise than serious. I have great respect for the criticism that a great majority of people come with, and, of course, take note of it. With regard to some of the issues in which the majority of the population has expressed their views, I maintain my view of the substance of the matter. But as I said during the hearing, there are some points in this case where you have to exercise a significant degree of discretion. I have great respect for the fact that others would have come to another understanding. You can criticise the judgement exercise that was done for selecting the time. I'm recording that someone in this majority would have chosen a different time. I respect that. With regard to the basic issue of proxy, I can, in the light of the agreement we made with SV, very difficult to understand, because for the first time in Stortingen's history, as far as I know, we actually made use of the funds we were going to get out of this sale, namely to seed funds. I think it may be a little strange that SV in particular has said what they said about the authority itself, when they have agreed to dispose of the money that was to be used when the money was put into the box.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e402	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e407	I allow myself to ask the question one more time, so that the Council of State will be given some more time so that he can answer it. Did the other one offer the same information as Four Seasons, that when one considered what one could offer, it was entirely possible to obtain offers from others to which one should then sell on the spot, as Four Seasons did to DnB Markets? Was that knowledge and the ability to reduce the need for its own equity communicated to the other provider, so that the provider had the same opportunity as Four Seasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e414	The representative, Hagen, is asking a very central question. It's a natural, absolute assumption that all possible buyers at any stage should have exactly the same information. Sunday night. 18.15, I think it was, we sent out an offer to the two that were left, and gave them 24 hours to bring a renewed price. We wanted a final sum of what you could give. We asked for it to be split. But it was the final sum that was interesting in relation to choices. In the offer we gave them to bring such a price, we did not specify all the options they had, nor what restrictions they had. It is clear that you can imagine the possibility that someone buys already that Sunday evening, at 0 p.m. 22 had made an agreement with Nordea that we should sell this to you for 700 million. kr. Then you put in a bid of 550 million, and before it's been two days, there's been two trades. It was not that we had said that this possibility did not exist. That was probably also the case, as far as I remember, in both of these two cases, that no one had plans to be long-term investors in the quoted papers. As far as I remember, it was both. The fact that the one person, who was awarded the award because he had the highest price, chose to dispose of the shares very quickly may indicate that there was a significant risk of sitting on these shares. I just want to remind you that the heaviest shareholding in the stock exchanges was in fish farming, a company that had a stock exchange fluctuation of over 100 pst. in the course of 30 days, two months before this sale took place, and then the value had increased by over 100 pst. So for both companies, of course, that possibility was present. We could not deny anyone, neither Four Seasons, Wiik and Forest, nor Lund to do the same. We didn't in any way have any interest in or opportunity to do that. Our interest was to get as much as possible at the end. That sum was to be in the state treasury, so it was finally approx. 550 million, plus that we get a resettlement for the shares in Norway Seafoods after the legal settlement that's going on right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e427	A little independent of this matter in and of itself, I think it will be important and correct that the Storting makes it clear when the Stortinget makes a decision the way you have done here, where it says: "Proposals are made to empower the Government to sell the State's shares" "first after the Storting has dealt with the Government's announced ownership notice." You can have a debate on this particular matter and have arguments for and against, but in relation to the function of the Storting and the role of the Storting in society, I think we're going to have to make it quite clear that this is a kind of decision that makes up the previous decision. There can be no doubt about it! It must be so that this is clear for the future, and that the Government, and not least the Storing itself, is aware of this. I must admit that the Storting for its part has not been aware of this matter at all. It is not my role or the role and function of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs to criticise the Storting, but it is quite clear that we have to establish that this is the case, and do not raise any doubts about this for the future. Then I understand the Council of State in that way -- if I am mistaken, I ask the Council of State to correct it -- that no restrictions were placed on any of the companies when it came to going into the market and having the sales of the listed shares assessed. It was okay for the owner that the individual companies did it. They were told that, and they could have done that if they had chosen to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e439	I just want to say that I listened with interest to the Council's reply. As I concluded, he confirmed that it was not actively informed to other companies that it would not be necessary to sell the entire SND Invest portfolio together, as stated in the original terms and conditions. There was a knowledge that was not actively disseminated, and thus there was a discrimination between the two in relation to the equity requirement. That is one of the reasons for the criticism that I think is clearly still very justified.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e446	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e461	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group, and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e468	The Secretary of State's statement covers most of the points that I believe a broad majority here in the Stortinget believe. However, Norway needs more concrete positions, especially at one point. I'm going to come back to this, but first I want to agree with what the Foreign Minister said about the arrests in Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. They show how it can be when a country's management says that they are not obliged to take into account international law and theève conventions. Then people think further into the system that they don't have to do it either. And if, in addition, they hear that those who are not with me are against me, and that the world can be divided into the wicked and the good, the path to brutality and degradation of the enemy will not be long. Having said this, I find it necessary to warn against the comparisons that someone has made between Saddam Hussein's regime and the United States. The United States is a democracy. It was American mass media that revealed what had happened. The country's president has made excuses and said that everything should be done to correct the mistakes. The abuses in Iraqi prisons and the killing of the civilian population under Saddam Hussein took place for years without anyone in Iraq having the opportunity to protest. Then they would be executed. World opinion also protested little, probably because it did not expect anything else from such a despot. We felt powerless. We can influence democracies. That's why the protests are coming. Democracies have the ability to correct themselves. In dictatorships, the victims become invisible and without a voice. These are significant differences. I have no need in myself to defend President Bush, but I would have said this because those who make comparisons between the United States and Saddam's Iraq cannot have a particular understanding of the situation in large parts of the Arab world and why terrorism has arisen. It jumps straight out of the oppressive and miserable situation that exists over large parts of the Arabian Peninsula. What has been revealed in Abu Ghraib has been a daily diet for years in several of these countries. Not just that. Listen what an international lawyer with respect to Saudi Arabia wrote in the International Herald Tribune a little while ago: "What is the situation of young men in Saudi Arabia? These young people can't take a glass of beer with friends, or go to theater, cinema, or concert. It doesn't exist. It's forbidden. All they can do is watch television every day spreading hatred for the Zionists. The second thing they can do is study the country's only legal interpretation of Islam that tells us that earthly life is not much worth compared to what awaits them after death -- especially if they become martyrs in the fight against Israel and the United States. The high birth rates and the high unemployment rate make it very unlikely that these young men will get a job. For young people without the possibility of dispersal and without the hope of education and work, suicide can be a way of escape -- especially if they believe that martyrdom leads directly to paradise." Almost all terrorism emerges from political conflicts. This is the case with the actions of the IRA on the British Isles, the actions of the Basques in Spain, the suicides of the Palestinians in Israel, the growing hatred of the Chechens against Russia or the guerrilla war that originated in the rurals of Latin America in the past. Of course, the terrorism associated with bin Laden is more complicated to understand because it is linked to historical myths, the humiliation of Arabs and religious fanaticism. But if we look a little bit into Saudi society, as I just did, one will quickly discover that here too there is a political and social background for people, especially young people, to be recruited. And there's a historical background for that. In the Arab context, people's feelings have been formed on the basis of French and British colonialism, American support for some of the most brutal regimes in the region, the humiliating defeat of the Arab countries against Israel, the occupation of Israel and what they perceive as Western double morals in the region. I say this because it is necessary that we do something about the conditions that recruit to this terrorism. But there is a great war against terrorism without taking into account that Palestinian terror has a completely different background than bin Laden's terror, that Chechen terror has probably a different backstop, etc. But because everything in the eyes of the Americans is one thing, their "war against terrorism" has given Russia the green light to hit even harder in Chechnya without looking for political solutions. Prime Minister Sharon has had freer lines for an even tougher policy against the Palestinians. When the hope of a peaceful solution disappears, desperation and fanaticism increase, and the various terrorist groups can be united in hatred against the United States and the West, even though they have very different backgrounds. This was among other things: The reason why the Labour Party stressed the need to follow up the war in Iraq with a solution to the Palestinian question. Now we have an opportunity to correct the image of the Arabs of Western double morals, in connection with Prime Minister Sharon's plan for the withdrawal and dismantling of settlements in Gaza, which actually represents a revolution in Israel. For the first time, the Likud Party and Sharon have gone in to dismantle settlements that they themselves were the ideological source of. Therefore, we must welcome the withdrawal. But the international community must take clear positions on how the withdrawal from Gaza is to take place and what is to happen in its extension. Otherwise, the retreat could lead to even more chaos and be used to annex large parts of the West Bank along the wall that is now being illegally built. It is not enough to give general support to the Roadmap for Peace, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs did. Norway must promote clear positions on crucial issues of this withdrawal. I would like to mention on behalf of the Workers' Party some important points that we hope the Government will focus on and promote. 1st@item: inlistbox The plan of withdrawal must be negotiated by the UN and the UN Security Council must confirm the implementation of the plan. This happened in connection with the withdrawal from South Lebanon, which was successful.2. The withdrawal must be complete and must be followed up by negotiations on withdrawal from the West Bank as well as on the border between Israel and a Palestinian State.3. The international community must move in with massive efforts and personnel in Gaza to assist the Palestinian authorities to be able to control the situation.4. Dwellings and other buildings evacuated by Israel must not be destroyed, but transferred to an international body, with negotiated compensation, so that they can benefit the Palestinians, and so that they do not use the tactics of the burned earth and create even more hatred in the area.5. The border between Gaza and Israel must be open to Palestinian workers so that they can resume their work in Israel. The Palestinian and Israeli economies are bound together; they depend on openness between themselves. It is important that the withdrawal from Gaza does not create new evil blood, that it does not really make Gaza some sort of prison camp under the leadership of Hamas, or that it provides the basis for the permanent annexation of parts of the West Bank. Terrorism will then increase in scope. On the other hand, if the withdrawal results in a resumption of the peace process, it may become more important than any other measure in the fight against terrorism. It's about seeing things in context, while acknowledging that the problems have different backgrounds. The situation is explosive. We see a mix of crime, drug traffic, human trafficking, terrorism and political fanaticism in a belt that really extends from Sudan through the Middle East to Afghanistan. Parts of the Balkans are now being harmed as the point of intersection for all of this. It passes the drug scene, such as: finance the warlords in Afghanistan. In Kosovo, the nationalist UCK guerrilla, financed by crime and drug traffic, dominates much of the terrain. The stability and security of our own continent are threatened by a neighbourhood characterized by uprising and chaos. Norway has to make a choice. How can we best benefit ourselves? It's definitely not by splitting our resources and leaving twelve staff officers back in Iraq for symbolic and political reasons. We can do the best we can where NATO and the EU are heavy inside. This applies in Afghanistan and in the Balkans. Finally, I just want to say this: I can't believe that anyone can think that the EU and NATO are a danger - as SV argues when it comes to NATO, and the Senter Party and SV do it in relation to the EU - when we see the problems and dangers around us. We need more of that kind of collective security - in Europe and in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e529	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e532	The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee had an interesting analysis and assessment of the roots of today's forms of terrorism, and I agree with most of what he said in that context. However, I was somewhat surprised that the representative, Mr Jagland, was so quick about the situation in Iraq and Norway's contribution to the stabilisation of the situation in Iraq. Since the Storting last dealt with this matter, the Security Council has come with Resolution 1546, which is brilliantly clear, and which states that when the occupation ends at the end of the current month, it is even more important than before that all UN member countries contribute. What has happened in the meantime, however, is that the Workers' Party has turned 180 degrees around in relation to the position they have always had on this question. I would like to hear the representative, Mr Jagland, explain this turnaround.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e539	I can't see that we've turned 180 degrees around. We decided when we agreed that Norway would participate in Iraq, which was the recommendation of the Security Council. It hasn't changed now. I am surprised if you believe that it is only now that you have a proper basis from the Security Council. We've had that all along. But we said that this was dependent on President Bush following up what he had promised in terms of, among other things. the resolution of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. We feel that he has done the reverse, but that we are in such a situation now that you can actually follow up, as I was about to do. But the important thing is, where are we going to be, and what's most important to us? We have limited resources. I do not think of the twelve staff officers that you are going to have in Iraq, as an important contribution to anything, other than that it is a political mark. The Norwegian soldiers in Iraq were called humanitarian soldiers. Now what are these twelve staff officers going to be called? So there has to be some consistency here from the government's side, too. We're consistent: we say we have to contribute where we can contribute the most, and that's where NATO is, and that's in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e544	The President must ask the participants in the debate to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e547	In SV we are pleased with the attitude that the Workers' Party is now taking to continue Norwegian presence in Iraq, and I also share the views of Jagland regarding these twelve staff officers who are left. Here we are talking first and foremost about a wish for a political mark, and nothing else. I am also pleased that Iland places so much emphasis on the conflict that perhaps in front of some other conflict could be an inspiration to those who are recruited to terror, namely the abuses committed by Israel against the Palestinians. There is a clear need for pressure on Israel, both from the United States and from the world community, and many feel powerless against a state that violates international law sovereignly every single day. My question to Jagland is: Does Jagland agree with the SV that Norway in international forums should discuss the issue of sanctions in relation to Israel in order to press for a different stance?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e556	I have been particularly concerned with one thing about the Middle East, which I have written about in articles and said here in Stortinget, and that is that we must establish ourselves with the same standards for all countries in this area. Some of the problem has been that we haven't had it. Now, when you start talking about sanctions against Israel and the arms embargo, you also have to mention, in the name of truth, that there are other threats in the area. If we're going to have weapons boycott against Israel, it raises questions about what we're doing with the entire area. I believe that we must have the same standard for Israel as for the other countries, and vice versa. Therefore, I don't think it is appropriate now to go to unilateral action against Israel, but it is very necessary that the international community have clear positions in relation to what Israel should do, especially in connection with the withdrawal from Gaza, and that positive incentives can also be brought up in order to move along this road, instead of starting to establish themselves with new double standards in the area, to which I think Kristin Halvorsen is adding up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e563	First, I want to say that I am very pleased with the last answer that the committee's leader had to the representative Halvorsen. Just setting demands for one party and one nation in the area, when one sees what standards there are in general on democracy, popular rule and human rights in that area, it gets completely crazy, even if it's right to put pressure. My question concerns Iraq. I understand the representative, Mr Jagland, that he agrees that the international community must follow up the UN's call to put forces at its disposal to stabilise and help with democratization in Iraq, but that the Labour Party and the representative, Mr Jagland, consider it so that we are more likely to gather the forces elsewhere - but that in principle they are some of the things that are necessary in the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e570	That's absolutely right. The basis of international law for the stabilisation force that has been in Iraq has been there all along. It's not changed now, but I want to say that there's a greater chance of success now, by getting a new UN resolution that hopefully can build an even wider coalition. What's the question for us is where we can do the best we can. I also feel that we have to be consistent in our argument, because we didn't like it so much that we overemphasized this with humanitarian soldiers. It created some misunderstanding, including in the humanitarian organizations. But what do you say now? It's a little bit unclear to us what is the purpose of these twelve staff officers who are going to be left. Is it then humanitarian staff officers, or what is it? I feel that we need a consistent policy, and the consistent policy we can have is that we participate in where we can do the best for us, and that military personnel are not used politically. And where we can do the best for us, is within a NATO framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e578	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e581	The great threats of the twentieth century originated in our own continent, Europe. From Sarajevo in 1914 to Srebrenica in 1995 Europe was the scene of world wars, mass murder and the nuclear threat of the Cold War. Today, the threat and risk picture is globalized, and as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, it happens "more often that we find the sources of threats to international peace and stability in the Middle East region". Today's security challenges are globalized in two ways. Firstly, instability can affect one place on the globe for safety anywhere else. Conflict in Afghanistan gave Al Qaida the opportunity to establish bases for putting on stage the attacks on the United States. Almost all heroin traded in Norway is produced under the control of warlords in Afghanistan and transported through criminal networks in the Balkans, which are also behind human smuggling. Secondly, our security is about a complex web of threats and risks, and no longer primarily about military threats. Just as the global economy has become a network economy, we face networks of threats in terms of security policy. They are complex and need to be handled by a variety of different instruments. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that the fight against terrorism cannot be won by military means alone. He said, "We must eliminate the underlying causes of terrorism being used as an instrument, whether they are of an economic or political nature, or because of the abuse of religion." In recognition of the complex nature of the threat, the Government emphasises an overall approach to security policy. Our time is not the time for the simple and eloquent answers to foreign policy questions. Since Norway is involved in the global network of security threats, we must contribute to the management of these threats in the international community. We have until now been delighted to be directly affected by acts of terrorism, but there are probably coincidences and glories that have led to the fact that no Norwegians have been affected by acts of terrorism. There are probably potentially interesting terrorist targets in Norwegian territory, for example: related to shipping and oil and gas installations, and it is not necessary to recall here that the main Norwegian industries, oil, gas, shipping and fish are globally oriented industries. Norwegian personnel and Norwegian interests are located in a number of countries, including areas characterised by instability and conflict. There is no contradiction between asserting Norwegian interests in our neighbourhoods and helping to promote peace, stability and economic development in other parts of the world. One example is how the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is both a local challenge for us, due to the concentration of nuclear waste near our border with Russia in the north, and equally fully a major global challenge that requires global responses. Globalisation reinforces the need for a solid international legal status. We are even more dependent on stability in international relations. We therefore need more effective multilateral cooperation with the basis of international law. Iraq is the clearest demonstration that legitimacy and efficiency are difficult to achieve without anchoring international efforts in multilateral institutions. There has been an animal-purchased experience. But now the international community's further handling of Iraq is being anchored in the UN. The UN track has always been the basis for the government’s handling of the situation in Iraq. Norway has participated in the international stabilisation force that has so far existed on the side of the occupying forces, in the light of the United Nations strong call. Now, six months ago, many people in the United Nations were afraid that they would not be. The UN is at the centre of the further political process to take place in the country. The establishment of the Iraqi Interim Government provides us with a renewed basis for continuing Norwegian military participation. The basis of international law in Resolution 1483 and the invitation from the Iraqi Interim Government have been a prerequisite for the continuation of the contributions by the Government, and will also provide the basis for wider support in the Stortinget for continued Norwegian military participation. The most important contribution we can now make to the work of the United Nations in Iraq is to contribute to the security of the country. For all those who have been involved in humanitarian efforts, reconstruction and political stabilisation in Iraq in this Chamber, it should be logical to support Norwegian contributions to the preconditions for the success of the actions and the political process. As in Afghanistan, security, political process and development are closely interwoven in Iraq. Also in a strategy to create a basis for peace, democracy and human rights in the Middle East, the UN must have a central role. The initiative of the G8 countries to establish a broad cooperation programme to promote policy reforms throughout the Middle East region is positive. However, it has its clear limitations, all the time when the Palestine and Israel conflict remain unresolved. The inhumane treatment of prisoners in Abu Ghraib prison also makes it difficult to achieve constructive cooperation on reforms in the region. However, as I was concerned, this type of action could strengthen legitimacy if the United Nations is given an increased role. The right will also emphasise that profound and lasting changes in society can only develop from the inside. The recognition that every society needs to evolve from its own historical and cultural experience is something deep in a conservative party like the Right. That means that the Right believes a greater commitment to reforms in the Middle East is credible only if we are willing to base a sufficiently long-term perspective. There are some attempts to create a contrast between global, international involvement and participation in key regional organisations, such as: EU. Such a contrast is constructed and misleading. The reality is that the UN is increasingly dependent on regional actors to strengthen the implementation of UN objectives. In our part of the world, the EU has the breadth and depth to deal with the totality of the new security policy challenges. The EU’s broad political understanding of the international picture of conflict and threat is clearly reflected in the new EU security strategy, which emphasises conflict prevention, early conflict warning and preventive diplomacy. In this perspective, it is understood that the EU is not only a regional organisation, but also a heavy global player, including: as the world's largest provider of financial assistance. The EU emphasises a multilateral approach and is therefore in the process of strengthening cooperation with the United Nations on crisis management, conflict prevention and post-conflict stabilisation. An example is the EU peace operation in Congo in the summer of 2003, which was launched at the request of the UN Secretary-General. Norwegian society is part of a European cultural tradition, legal tradition and trade tradition. The European Community of Values Norway is part of it, and it is also expressed that the EU and Norway have a common approach to today’s global safety challenges. The new European Security Strategy provides a fundamental basis, direction and content of the EU’s foreign and security policy that is fully consistent with the approach and priorities that the Right believes Norway should take on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e638	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e641	In recent years, we have witnessed horrific acts of terror that affect accidental and innocent victims. Both human rights and democracy are challenged by terrorism. Norway shall participate, inter alia: together with the United States in the important fight against terrorism. In my view, it is up to democratic countries to ensure that human rights and international law are respected and respected in this struggle. Because we live in open democracies, in recent times it has revealed cruel mistreatment of Iraqi prisoners in Abu Ghraib prison and at the Guantanamo Bay base in Cuba, where the United States -- put on the verge -- keeps prisoners without law and judgment. The methods used have received a lot of attention in the media and contribute to subduing under negative feelings towards the West. So they do a lot of damage. Is the representative Christiansen disappointed in the U.S. methods?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e650	The representative of the Eye is right that a whole world is shaken by the inhumane treatment of prisoners in Abu Ghraib prison that has recently been uncovered. I, and many with me, are obviously disappointed that this has happened. As Tony Blair put it, we are in Iraq to free the Iraqi people from assault, not to commit them. That is why I am pleased that the Secretary of State so strongly stressed that the US authorities must get to the bottom of what has happened, and that this is something the United States is actually obliged to do. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also said that he believes that the investigation under way will reveal all relevant responsibilities, and that not only seven soldiers who allegedly committed this are being punished, but that they are trying to reveal all responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e655	The representative Christiansen said in his speech that the UN presence in Iraq is a prerequisite for peace and security, and that Norway must participate. In my personal opinion, the UN in the Iraq case has been quite paralysed, unlike the United States. If the representative believes what she says, is it a good contribution that Norway is now withdrawing from Iraq and leaving only twelve staff officers behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e662	Much of the debate here today is going to be about why the Government and a majority in the United Kingdom want Norway to remain in Iraq, and not about why we've pulled out the engineering company that's been there for six months. The reason why we still want to have a military presence is that this is the most important contribution we can now make to the work the United Nations will do in Iraq. For the Right and for the Government, it has been important that the UN get on the road in Iraq and that the UN is now at the centre of the political process. Our military presence is a contribution to strengthening security, which is the very prerequisite for the political process to take place in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e669	I note that in the debate on the instruments that are active against terrorism, there has been some development here in the Chamber in the last year, not least in some of the representatives of the Right. Military instruments appear to slip downwards on the list. In April, guest professor Jefrey Record came to the US Army War School with clear criticism of Bush's strategy against terrorism. He said that Bush with the Iraq war opened a new front in the Middle East for Islamist terrorism, which has drawn attention and resources away from securing the United States against new terrorist attacks, and that this has derailed the global fight against terrorism. I would like to have the representative Christiansen's view of the fight against terrorism that has been taking place lately. Has the war in Iraq strengthened or weakened the international fight against terrorism, or has this been a misguided strategy? What's the most important thing we can do now in Iraq -- still having twelve staff officers?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e678	The representative was concerned with one of the important points in my speech: that the handling of the Iraq war and the whole conflict that has shown that the fight against international terrorism must be anchored in international multilateral institutions. And as I was in, there's been an animal-bought experience that it hasn't been, but I think it's now reason to stress that the UN is at the centre of the further process in Iraq. I hope, and also believe, that there will be stronger support for the Norwegian involvement in Iraq, both what we do humanitarian in the form of aid, and also what we contribute in the military.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e683	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e687	The Secretary of State's statement on Monday was in many ways a desire for a better world and peace on earth, but it gave no prescription on what had to be done except to ask contentious parties to keep peace. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said at the beginning of his statement: "Unfortunately, the security policy situation has not improved since my regular foreign policy presentation in January." It might be said about the statement on Monday as well. It was a reflection rather than a concrete solution to today’s situation in the many conflicts that are taking place. The UN will have to take resolutions, but without the will to follow up on them, if necessary with power, it will only talk. We've just been through a bloody weekend in Iraq where over 30 Iraqis were killed. Among these were the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and an official in the Ministry of Education. What we see here is that religious and political fanatics are also doing everything they can to create chaos against the formal takeover of power that takes place on 30 June. They care little about UN Security Council resolutions and the international community's support for the temporary Iraqi government and democratisation plans. Like the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Progress Party is also taking away from the facts revealed in the Abu Ghraib prison, and we expect the United States to clear up these relationships and place the guilty ones in charge. On 8 June, the Security Council adopted Resolution 1546 unanimously transferring the functions of the occupying authorities to the Interim Government after 30 June. But that doesn't mean that the job in Iraq is over. It is important that, at this critical stage, international societies stand together to ensure security until free elections are held and a democratic Iraqi regime is established in 2005. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has clarified that an international military presence in Iraq is necessary to stabilise the situation in the country, as a prerequisite for both political and economic development. I see that the Foreign Minister shares these views and that the Government has decided to continue to participate in the military stabilisation work in Iraq. When the Norwegian engineering company finishes its mission in Iraq, our military presence will consist of approximately. 12 staff officers who can hardly guarantee either the peace or the security of the relief organisations that, together with the civilian population, help to build the country. This contrasts with what the Government says and what the Government does. It is important for the international community to show a firm attitude and not be intimidated by destructive groups, but to show solidarity with those who want peace and democracy. Major countries such as Russia, Germany and France, which were critical of the war, should also show solidarity with the people and be constructive. If we are unable to create a secure situation in which the United Nations or other relief organizations can operate for the benefit of the Iraqi population, we have failed. On 8 March, the draft new Constitution was signed by the Interim Council in Iraq and will apply to the permanent constitution adopted in 2005. Some unexplained things remain regarding Kurdish autonomy, but you hope to get it in place next year. Another issue addressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs was the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. Among other things, he said: that no responsible government questions Israel’s right to defend itself, but that the use of power must be both necessary and proportionate to the current threats. He further said that the use of heavy military action in densely populated areas is not easy to see the necessity of. I believe the Minister for Foreign Affairs is wrong. There are so-called responsible governments who want to deprive Israel of the right to defend itself. Antisemitism is spreading in Europe, as was seen before World War II. When then Israel uses military forces to disarm extreme Palestinian groups in densely populated areas where they are hiding, and where they carry out their abominable deeds, yes, the Foreign Minister does not see the need for it. He believes that it must be all right to condemn the Palestinian terror. When Israel then sets up a protective wall to protect its inhabitants, it is also wrong. One may slowly disagree on the location of the wall or the necessity of it, but proposals have not been made by the so-called responsible governments to ensure the safety of civilian Israeli citizens. It is impossible to believe that the disarmament of terrorist groups can be done by personnel armed with stone, or that it is enough to use judgmental words. On 6 June, the Israeli Government took a decision in principle to withdraw from Gaza, which will also improve the security of both parties, and which may be an important step towards peace. As a third main theme, the Foreign Minister raised issues in Afghanistan, which are becoming increasingly difficult. It was with sorrow that we received the message of two Northmen who were killed in service for the country's population. This makes it visible that a safer presence is required in a country characterised by political, ethnic and religious contradictions. On 26 January, President Hamid Karzai signed the new Constitution, but there are major challenges in combating increasing drug production, and warlords protecting production, and preventing the country from becoming a haven for terrorists. Here I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norway should contribute the necessary resources both militarily and humanitarianly and take measures to protect those who give and those who receive help. There is not enough good intentions here either, but the international community must put power behind the desire to fight international terrorism and spread weapons of mass destruction. Finally, some words to ensure that Norwegian ships are not used to spread weapons of mass destruction. It is important here that Norway take measures to protect ships and crew and participate in international cooperation and shipboard legislation. In this context, we must also be on guard against both cargo ships and tourist ships becoming terrorist targets. One would like to see the world only kind and good, but as long as it isn't, we have to be willing to protect countries and people, even with weapons if necessary, not just with resolutions and talks. In the Foreign Minister's statement, I missed a whole range of foreign policy issues, including: on the situation in Iran, where a number of deficiencies and violations of human rights have been identified, as well as on the financing of terrorist groups in progress. The situation in the EU, which has now expanded to 25 countries, the low participation in elections to the EU Parliament and the growing scepticism of the EU Convention among the Member States, should also be mentioned. But there's going to be another debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e727	It seems that the Progress Party is also in agreement with the importance of the Israel-Palestinian conflict for a solution in the total Middle East region. However, the statements of the Progress Party on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict both in speeches and in debates indicate a one-sided attitude in favour of one of the parties. In fact, in TV debates, the party's foreign policy spokesman will not even accept the 1967 margin line as a basis for a final solution. The question to the representative of Stensaker must then be: does the Progress Party agree that a lasting peace in the Middle East must be based on a negotiated solution where the parties are equivalent participants, or does the Party consider another final process in favour of one of the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e734	The representative Finn Martin Vallersnes was concerned that the Progress Party was unilaterally Israel-friendly and not so friendly to the other party, which is Palestine. It is clear that a solution is based on taking account of both parties and that a lasting solution must also include Palestine. But we are concerned that Israel has the right to defend itself. If we are now also talking about Palestine, there have been Palestinian terrorist groups that have made it difficult to achieve lasting peace in the Middle East. The day you end up with suicide bombers from the Palestinian side, I think you're on your way to peace in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e741	In the vote on the long-term plan of defence, adopted a few days ago, a majority, all with the exception of the Progress Party, insisted that international operations should be anchored in international law through a mandate from the United Nations, and that we should refrain from participating in preventative warfare and pre-purchase attacks. So the Progress Party remains alone and defends the behaviour of the United States in Iraq. Does the representative of Stensaker really think that pre-emption attacks create a safer world and that Norway should participate in them? Is it this Advancement Party's intention to have a firm attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e746	The representative of Mr Kjetil Bjørklund was concerned about the views of the Progress Party on the conflict in Iraq and other places in the world, and that international operations should be enshrined in international law. With regard to Iraq, we believe that the operation that was initiated was enshrined in international law. The Progress Party is committed to the observance of international law's intentions. What we saw in Iraq, on the other hand, was that the UN showed a striking accident when it came to going to action to end the horrific acts that, among other things, were. Saddam Hussein was behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e753	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e756	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that the security policy situation has not improved since the January foreign policy presentation. It's a statement that I and SV can tell us completely agree with. In our opinion, the paradoxical situation is that the country that likes to be considered our most important ally in security policy is still helping to make the world a more dangerous place. This is no longer a criticism that the left-hand side is alone about. It is a criticism such as this. This week travels through a riot from a group called Diplomats and Military Commanders for Change, where the former U.S. military chief William Crowe and former CIA director Admiral Stansfield Turner are among those who are with -- not old SVs in other words. According to the NRK yesterday, they criticise the Bush administration for destroying respect for the United States outside the world, and for making the world more dangerous. In April, guest professor Jeffrey Record came to the U.S. Army War School with clear criticism of Bush's strategy against terrorism. He said that Bush with the Iraq war opens a new front in the Middle East for Islamist terrorism, which has drawn attention and resources away from securing the United States against new attacks, and it has derailed the global fight against terrorism. The fight against terrorism cannot be won militarily. This is a message that Norway needs to present very clearly in the international community - to the United States, but also to Israel and Russia, to mention some of the countries that today place great emphasis on the military attack on terrorism. Excessive belief in military instruments takes resources from other instruments that can actually bring about. Worse still, military violence in a number of places in the world leads to ever-new groups of young people learning that it is one tool that lasts: it is violence, violence, and violence again. The fight against terrorism cannot be waged by disregarding democratic and civil rights, or by disregarding international conventions and the open use of terror and surveillance, which involve all other aspects of privacy. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself pointed out, it is not easy to grasp the idea of promoting democracy and respect for human rights in countries where this is lacking, when the messenger himself is unable to practice the values that one tries to convince others of. Since 11 September 2001, huge sums have been used in the military fight against terrorism. Thousands of people have been killed in Afghanistan and Iraq, both civilian and military. More are recruited to extremist environments and terrorist actions. In comparison, little has been done to address the reasons why people are just recruited to this type of extreme activity. Does the Government agree with us that too much has been invested in military instruments, and that the United States is spending too much resources on this in relation to other instruments? A week ago, new figures came from the Swedish SIPRI, which is monitoring the world's military consumption. Here we can see that the world used 11 pst. more money on weapons in 2003 than in the previous year. The main reason was the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. From 2002 until now, the cost of weapons has increased by a total of 18 pst. For the year 2003, they reach huge 956 billion dollars, i.e. NOK 6,400 billion. Ten times as much resources from the rich developed countries are spent on military technology as development aid. These are numbers from 2001. Instead of investing so much in weapons, there is a need to focus on conflict prevention and conflict resolution. It is cheaper, and it prevents the enormous suffering that a war will in any case lead to. The situation in Iraq is dramatic and difficult. It was clear that the United States had a strategy to win the war, but no strategy to win the peace. The new Security Council resolution clears the ground on paper in a number of areas and clarifies the situation of transition to self-government. But unfortunately not so much in practice will be changed by a new resolution, at least not immediately. If Iraq really achieves self-government on 30 June, it will, among other things, Depending on how real the United States will give up power. Will it, for example? Is Iraq's oil wealth now benefiting the Iraqi population? SV believes that the occupying powers must continue to bear the primary responsibility for security in Iraq for as long as it is necessary and as long as the future self-government authorities consider it desirable. In the SV we stand firm that Norway should draw all the forces out of Iraq, we should not have been there, and we should not be there. The main strength has now been extracted. It's really historic and eye-catching that the government insists on holding twelve staff officers in Iraq in order to plant the Norwegian flag there - only with the support of the Progress Party in the Stortinget, and not with the support of any other parties. I don't remember anything similar happening in Norwegian foreign policy history. The SV's view is that we should now give priority to Afghanistan, and we should give priority to having the capacity to support under peace processes involving Norway and UN operations. We welcome the fact that Norway is contributing to the reconstruction of Iraq with short-term and long-term contributions to development. The whole region will serve the economic and social benefits of Iraq, and political stability will be just as important as military contributions. In fact, political stability is a prerequisite for military and security stability. I am absolutely sure that we all reacted with shock and nausea when we saw these pictures of American soldiers who abused Iraqi prisoners, who went all over the world. The Foreign Minister was also aware that he himself was shaken. However, it is difficult to believe that these are activities that can happen if the soldiers are afraid to be discovered. They have taken pictures even where they pose with mistreated prisoners, and send the pictures home via the web to friends and acquaintances. It seems to them that they are in a culture that accepts violations of elementary human rights. Therefore, it is difficult to understand that these should be individual pisods to be investigated and not a culture that needs to be explored in the seams. In addition, it is said loud, clear and clear - in a hearing of the Senate, Minister of Defence Rumsfeld has confirmed it - that the following are permitted in Iraq: so-called sleep control, i.e. refusing prisoners to sleep, diet manipulation, i.e. to starve prisoners, to sit in uncomfortable positions, to sound extremely loud, etc., which are regarded as violations and violations of humanitarian rules and as torture. That is why this is also the case, the case that Norway has to protest against. In this context, we must not forget the situation that exists on the Guantanamo base in Cuba, where there is much evidence that minors are also being held captive. Finally, I want to address the conflict in the world that in itself contributes to the most recruitment of terrorists. There can be no doubt that Israel’s conduct toward the Palestinians is the conflict that, if resolved, would contribute most to peace and most effectively in the fight against terrorism. Then I think it is alarming that the foreign minister says so carefully. He says it like this: "For the government, it is alarming that the parties do not seem to want to take this inward. Instead, the parties appear caught in a vicious circle of attacks and retributions." I think the Government describes a situation with two equivalent parties, and not a situation in which one power is an illegal occupying party with systematic violations of international law, as Willoch describes it with his own eyewitness accounts from Palestine. It is important that Norway clearly states that there is a difference between an occupant and those who are occupied, and it is important that Norway sharpens the tone in relation to Israel. Norway must put on the agenda the discussion of how international society can react to a state that systematically violates international law as Israel does, and how Norway can address this with the United States, which contributes billions of dollars each year in support of Israel. Threats of withdrawing that support would in itself be effective in bringing Israel onto a different path. Kjetil Bjørklund from SV will address the situation in Afghanistan and the Balkans in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e792	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e795	It's, I'd almost said sadly, an old experience that mutual friendship is the best guarantee against abuse from any unfamiliars. If we ignore the regular media performances on the slippage of some prominent SVs, the party is apparently still opposed to NATO, and is also against Norwegian EU membership. The consequence is resistance to such commitments that we are debating today. The question for the representative, Mr Halvorsen, must then be: What is the alternative safety policy of the SV for Norway? Or, as the committee's chairman was about his first post today: What collective safety net is the alternative to those to whom he says no? It could be that SV manages without friends. But is that good enough for the country's security?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e800	It's not the SV's opinion that we're going to be unfamiliar either with NATO or with the EU. On the contrary, we have to deal with what our neighbours are both constructively and properly. But our opinion is that NATO should be closed when the Warsaw Pact was closed, that it is a security organization that belonged in the cold days of the war, and that it should be used to create a pan-European security organization that could include the old Eastern bloc countries. What is most important now in relation to NATO is to address NATO's nuclear strategy, NATO's first-use strategy, NATO's upgrading, NATO's ability to go out of the area. And I think we have many friends in other NATO countries, and also in NATO/EU countries, who agree with SV in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e806	The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, said in his speech that the fight against terrorism cannot be won militarily, and cannot be won by disregarding democratic rights. In my opinion, SV lives in his own dream world where everyone lives in peace, and where all conflicts can be resolved with talk or with money. But that's not the real world. Does the representative of Halvorsen really think that there is no democracy, and where human rights are violated daily, should the international community only look at when talks or resolutions do not help? Does the representative not see that military forces may also be required to protect the population and relief organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e813	Yes. SV is not a pacifist party. If there are military actions anchored in international law and in clear decisions of the Security Council, the SV sees the need for military instruments to be used. But we must never believe that that's what solves a problem. I would like to ask the representative Stensaker to look around Iraq. Is it so that the war against Iraq has led to a safer world, to less terror, to a more peaceful opportunity? On the contrary, it has recruited terror, it has increased conflicts. This will be a conflict that the world is going to wrestle with for many, many years to come. The same is true of the situation in Afghanistan, which has been wrestled by war for decades after decades. The result of that is that you get very short on military actions, and that military actions can only have a function if they are in close contact with civil reconstruction of a herded country. The perspective that SV has presented here today is that a military action, if you have a mandate to international law, can be a small part of the struggle for a more peaceful world, but the main focus must be, and the big money must be spent, in completely different areas, otherwise we will not get anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e822	It is easy to share with the representative Halvorsen's analysis of what must be the main instrument against terror. At the same time, I want to ask the representative Halvorsen if she doesn't see that in recent years this has changed a lot, with bin Laden network and other networks, where there are actually rich people behind, and those they can recruit are also largely of a different class. As a result, it has changed, and as a result, it is asked whether or not to upgrade the sharp part. Then to Iraq. Since 1 July, when there is no longer formally an occupation, is it for SV - which is always occupied by the UN - so that the reason for not being there is a capacity question, or is there still some sort of emotional situation based on the original resistance to the war? Because when the United Nations asks, and when the occupation has ceased, what is the fundamental reason why we should not be present?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e829	I fully agree that it is not possible to explain terrorism just with poverty. I believe that the committee leader, Jagland, was concerned about something that was very important, in relation to the hopelessness that many of the younger generations of Arabic dictatorships face. They have little hope for the future, and political conditions also show that there are few opportunities for development. But I think that kind of extremists have far too easy play in recruiting and getting support for terrorist activities because of injustice and poverty, for example. the conflict between Israel and Palestine and general poverty. These, in addition, are people who see the world's wealth through the TV screen every single day. Contrasts become enormous and go straight into the hopelessness that many people feel. So to the situation in Iraq. It is obvious that a new resolution has strengthened it. I agree with Mr Jagland on this point too, because we also have previous UN resolutions on this. Nevertheless, there is no denying that there is a significant degree of political support in relation to the occupation you opposed, because in any case we must give priority to different actions that we are going to participate in at international level. And if you give priority to Iraq, you also give political support through that participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e836	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e839	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough, good and nuanced statement. Unfortunately, there is reason to note that he is quite right when he says that the world has not become any safer or less selective since the previous issue. I would like to start by thanking you in particular for the very clear speech that the Minister of Foreign Affairs had in relation to the abuses that have taken place against prisoners in Iraq. It is necessary that a speaker speak as clearly as the Foreign Minister did there. So I would particularly like to thank you for that. That being said, I don't think we should just hit our chests here in Norway or the West and say that this is a legend that Americans have or the British have. When we see polls that have been carried out in Denmark and Norway on the acceptance of so-called mild torture, we see that there is a sadly large percentage who says that there is all right in the fight against terrorism. It shows that in this fight against terrorism there may be a danger that we will return to the old Jesuit slogan "the intention is to sanctify the medium". Therefore, in order to use Biblical language, it is "a thorn in the flesh" of all of us, who also in our societies must arouse a living debate that we must hold high the ideals of the Geneva Convention. The people of Iraq are entitled to security. Even if Iraq formally becomes sovereign from 1 July, US and British authorities have a great responsibility to contribute to security, until Iraq itself manages to bring about a real police force and forces that can provide civil security. That's why the international community has to stand up here. Norway makes it symbolic in a multinational force, but it is quite clear that when the occupation is lifted, it is a common international responsibility. I am pleased with both the answer that the leader of the committee gave today, and partly what the representative Halvorsen gave, where they expressed that it was more a practical question based on what capacity we had, and where we were going to use it, than the resistance to a participation in Iraq. It seemed to me to be an important clarification, and in my view, it totally dedramatizes what the representative Halvorsen said was a historical situation, that even though the seemingly narrow majority here on the Stortinget was supposed to do, as long as it is essentially a practical basis on which one is disunity. The war on terror is a fight against extremists. As I said in my reply to the representative Halvorsen: it is necessary to work on a broad basis, but I agree that we need the pointed end. But it's primarily by making the world fairer that we can move on. The Israel-Palestine conflict is one of the most serious and most spreading conflicts we have. We're going to admit that. It's got a lot of attention here today, too. I found the angle of attraction of the leader in the committee interesting when he's talking about how to implement the withdrawal from the Gaza Strip. First of all, I think we've given a little bit of a positive signal when Sharon actually made a decision here that you've been waiting for for years. The most meaningless of all busses is the bust in Gaza. There is reason to be aware, so that even a few times actually says something positive about decisions that have been taken. It may be that the representative Jagland is right that one must have that kind of control over the withdrawal, and I thought those points were wise. But when he compares with Lebanon, I remind you of a relationship, and that is, in that withdrawal, things were done by the United Nations that have created additional wounds in a difficult relationship between the United Nations and Israel. It's that they overlooked the kidnapping, the abduction and the murder of Israelis, as they first suggested, and as it was quite demeaning for the U.N. in retrospect to have to admit had happened that way. So in a relationship that's already strained, the United Nations doesn't have the highest "standing" in the world, and it could be other people, like, for example. NATO or others, who had greater legitimacy also in this context, and who could carry out such a control. The path of thought that Jagland has is interesting, and I think it's important that the withdrawal takes place in a good way. So today SV has put forward a proposal on sanctions against Israel. So they are proposing sanctions against the only real democracy in the Middle East. Of course, Israel must be tried against international law. It says itself. And they must be criticized for violations of international law. Of course it is. But at the same time, there's something completely wrong when it's just the one party that's going to be criticized here. When the representative, Halvorsen, says that Israel must bear responsibility for the continuation of the conflict, it is completely historyless. Terrorism, as we know him internationally, occurred largely in relation to the PLO, which came up with other and better thoughts. We know that it was Arafat and PLO who rejected a negotiating arrangement that would have given a Palestinian state that largely followed the 1967 borders. These things can't be underestimated. And then we can all be certain that part of the means of power used, and what Israel does, is necessary to try against international law, and to criticize. But implementing sanctions as proposed by SV is at least an isolation policy against one power that will not at all lead to peace, but will lead to the total opposite. I'm actually a little disappointed that one is as one-sided as one is in this criticism, and I'm also a little surprised that the leader of the committee criticizes the Government for saying that the only way to peace in the Middle East is to follow the Roadmap for peace, as the Foreign Minister said. I believe the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Foreign Minister, the Government and the Christian People's Party are some of the things that are the way. There's reciprocity in that. I agree entirely with the Minister of Foreign Affairs on that question. It's very easy when we're in this fight against terror, forgetting what's actually still the biggest international challenge: the fight against hunger, poverty, slumbering, the death of 30,000-40,000 children every day because of lack of elementary things. There are no terrorist actions; there are no horrible events in any part of the world that can measure up to the terrible fate that surrounds all these human beings. It is important that we also have it in a foreign debate. We have reason to be proud -- not to be able to beat ourselves on the chest -- of the fact that, in general, we are now at the forefront of the world with regard to providing aid for development. I think we can also draw it into a security policy context. Just based on the analysis as several, including: The representative, Halvorsen, had here, is the processing of the development message, coming to the fall, perhaps as much a contribution to peace in the world in the future as each of the themes we have had here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e865	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e868	I must avert a misunderstanding. I have not criticized the Government for ending up on the Roadmap for Peace. What I said was that you now have to deal with this withdrawal that is going to happen within the framework of the road map, in a more concrete way. Everyone else has to do that now. Then we have to have some positions. One thing that's very important -- as I said, and as Lilletun was in the room -- is: who's going to negotiate how a withdrawal is going to happen? There are two parties here, Israelis and Palestinians. It is then natural that responsibility for negotiating the plan with the UN is left to the UN, that the Security Council approves it, and that the Security Council finally confirms when the plan is implemented, so that it does not become one of the parties. It's a very important prerequisite for success. It happened in southern Lebanon. I agree that there were things that were not good, but without having had an international agency that negotiated the plan itself and confirmed when it was completed, it had not been well. So what I picked up was essentially that now you have to have some positions in relation to as important things as how this is going to happen now, in order for it to be a new start to the peace process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e873	I thought it was a good clarification. Then we're certain that it's the road map that has to be grounded. A happy decision to withdraw from Gaza must be handled in a way that both parties can accept and that can also provide security. It's from the representative of Jagland's side making a sketch in relation to it, and some of the elements, I also said in my post, are interesting and good. But it's hardly possible in a foreign debate here to complete it. What I thought was important in the commissioner's posts now, is that it is the Roadmap for peace that should be at stake. It is based on reciprocity, on safe borders and on respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e878	There is, in general, little debate here on the role of NATO after the Iraq war. The alliance is divided politically, both within the European countries and across the Atlantic. But NATO has strengthened its instruments in recent years. They maintain their nuclear strategy, develop their rapid response force, establish their "out of area" strategy and have launched efforts to establish a missile defence. NATO's capabilities have become much sharper, while the challenge to our global security lies in areas that cannot be dealt with by military means - which Lilletun himself so well put forward. In what way does Lilletun think that the instruments that NATO is now reinventing and developing can provide a more peaceful and safer world? Then we can start with NATO's nuclear strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e885	First of all, a recognition, and that's that we can discuss NATO more than what we do in general. Now the Annual Report will be coming to debate soon, and then we'll be able to do it. I mean that a renewed NATO can certainly contribute to a peaceful worth. Firstly, NATO has in fact been the leader in reforming the former Eastern European countries that needed to rebuild - their forces are one thing - human rights institutions, democratic institutions, etc. There, NATO has been completely central to the transformation that has occurred. It is also the intake that exists in Ukraine to keep Ukraine European. Then to the pointed part. It's obvious - we've seen it in Afghanistan - that coordinating a NATO force can probably be what makes us have a chance to develop Afghanistan democratically. But there is a lack. I'm still open to discuss NATO, and I hope that the conclusion will be that even a party here in the Storting will be a NATO party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e893	It might have to be done in a different context than in a line exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e896	Now perhaps the representative Lilletun might be a little surprised at why a party that is opposed to NATO is so concerned that NATO is divided, but there's another variant of the answer. What I'm asking is the relationship with Iraq and the extraction of forces. As Lilletun said, the division in Stortinget is a historical phenomenon, but not everything in history is equally important. So that's one side of the thing. But is the foundation of the Christian People's Party for continuing to have forces in Iraq that there are still humanitarian tasks to be solved by the forces? It was the earlier foundation of the Christian People's Party for them to be there. Is there still the reason that one wants them to be there? It is necessary to comment on the fact that, at the time of the adoption of this Decision, the current decision of the Security Council was not known.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e903	The decision is made with the assumption that we would get a new status after 1 July. How that decision was made did not know. But I don't think I want to use the embodiment of humanitarian work when it comes to these forces. I want to use the cover that there is an officer present to be involved in the work to be done to stabilise Iraq in the transformation that is now taking place. I believe that saying that they are part of a stabilisation force that is tasked with shaping Iraq into a democracy and a rule of law, where people can feel safe in their lives, is a better way to describe it than using the epitome of pure humanitarian work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e908	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e911	Let us hope that the international community, through Security Council Resolution 1546, has come to an understanding and a roadmap that will ultimately bring peace and prosperity to Iraq. It is worth noting that the occupying powers in Iraq now recognise that they must have the United Nations in place to resolve the mob they have been in in Iraq. It's not so terrible long since the United States found that the United Nations was about to make sail irrelevant, starting with Iraq. Now the former occupying powers on their knees are asking the United Nations to contribute, and they recognise that they must build on the legitimacy and competence of the United Nations in the further work. This is important, and it is unusually important for those of us who are concerned that the UN should play a central role in the further fight against terrorism. Having said that, there is no doubt that the problems are in line in Iraq. The road ahead is long, and the security situation in the country is very worrying. It has created a situation in Iraq where human suffering is still high, and how many believe that increased terrorism has been founded, rather than less. The Central Party had hoped that the Foreign Minister in his intervention would try to give an analysis of what he thinks the Iraq war has meant for the international security situation, not least because he initially stressed in his intervention that the security situation globally had not improved since his presentation in January. But I can challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to go a little closer to it in his post later today. It was correct and necessary that the Foreign Minister's statement clearly condemned the torture in Abu Ghraib prison. It has been raised to doubt that the US's arrest has weakened not only the confidence of Iraqi civilians in the United States but also the respect of the democratic values of Western countries by very many others. The security situation in Iraq has been further distorted. The conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians may have been even more marked. The Central Party takes it for granted that the Foreign Minister is at least as clear in the speech when he meets the Americans in bilateral talks on this topic, as he is when he speaks in this Chamber. There is an exceptional case in Norwegian foreign policy when we find that a government sends Norwegian military to foreign operations without a broad majority behind it in Stortinget. In spite of the fact that the government was based only on the Progress Party, it chose to leave a group of staff officers in Iraq after the six-month shift. We note that the Minister of Foreign Affairs gives nothing but a very general reason why the staff officers should remain in Iraq. It is strange, in the opinion of the Centre Party, when you first choose to have forces in Iraq, that these are the very staff officers you keep. This sets out the reasons for the Government to take part in Iraq initially in a special light, as the reason that was known as humanitarian action. It is difficult to see that the staff officers will be the most important humanitarian component to maintain. It is rather an expression of symbolic support for the involvement of occupying powers in Iraq, a signal and a symbolic support that the Central Party believes it was wrong to send at the time of the adoption of the decision, as is known long before a new Security Council resolution was in place. We also ask questions about the process until this decision. In April, the political parties were made aware through the media of the Ministry of Defence's plans to continue the presence of staff officers. These were a few days after Minister of Foreign Affairs Petersen stressed in Stortinget's Question Time on April 21 that he did not see for himself the continuation of the engineering coups in Iraq. But he did not mention the staff officers in one word. This is, in our opinion, a form of instability that we do not need in Norwegian foreign policy. There is a broad consensus in the Great Britain about prioritising Afghanistan to our international commitment. That's right, and that's good. The international community has taken on a great deal of responsibility through the necessary acts of war in that country, and it is essential that Afghanistan is not left to new chaos. Strengthening the security situation must go hand in hand with the reconstruction of the country - a demanding but necessary approach. It would be a huge blow to the engagement in Afghanistan if one were to experience prison abuse in that country, as we have seen in Iraq. Let me stress that the Central Party does not have the basis to believe that similar events happen in Afghanistan, but at the same time there is no reason to be naive. The Central Party therefore believes that the Government should take the initiative to discuss this issue in particular with the participating countries of the international force in Afghanistan collectively. It would be natural for Norway to take such an initiative, both because we traditionally have credibility in our defence of international law, and because we have a significant contribution in Afghanistan. At a time when international law, and especially humanitarian law, is under pressure, this could be an important initiative from a small country. Norway should do what it can to reduce the risk of a repeat of the story of total unacceptable prison abuse in Afghanistan. Should history repeat itself, it would not only reduce opinion's willingness to stand up in international operations, but it would give terrorists further ammunition. Time doesn't allow me to go into the relationship between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Let me just say that the Central Party has a great deal of understanding of the views expressed today by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, not least on a UN role in monitoring the process of withdrawal in Gaza combined with a monitoring of developments in the West Bank. It has been said very wisely in this Chamber that the fight against terrorism cannot be won by military means alone. It has been said very wisely that we need to see aid and military resources in the context. It is a challenge that we have in Norwegian policy, to be able in practice to translate this into operational policy. It is also a challenge that we face within the United Nations system in terms of building up the gaps between political activity and development activity. But there is no doubt that the only way is to see the relationship between the different areas of action. That is the only way we can move forward in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e942	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e945	Security Council Resolution No In paragraph 15, paragraph 15 states that the United Nations is asking the Member States and international and regional organisations to provide assistance to the multinational force, including military forces, as agreed with the Iraqi Government, to meet the need for the security and assistance of the Iraqi people humanitarianly and to rebuild the country, and - that is what is new in the picture - to support the UN mission in Iraq. Why is it the life of the Central Party to use every opportunity to demonstrate that Norway should not take into account what a unanimous Security Council decides?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e952	The central party listens consistently to the UN Security Council. We are consistently listening to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. We are consistently committed to anchoring international decisions in the UN. We have never asked questions about the legitimacy of having military forces in Iraq. It is well known to the representative of Wage. We thought it was politically wrong to stand up with military forces, but we never said that there was no basis for international law to have them there. The decision that the staff officers would stay in Iraq was taken by the Government in good time before the new resolution in 1546 came into force. I agree that Resolution 1546 helps to create greater openness to participation than what was already there, but, as I said, we have never been in doubt that it was legitimate to have the Norwegian forces in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e961	Of course, listening is reassuring. But there are as we know many kinds of listening. One of them is to let things go into one ear and out the other, without it leaving any trace. I have a certain sense that in this case it is the kind of listening the centre party has practiced -- as Åslaug Haga said, "consistant." It is not very helpful if all the United Nations Member States had taken the same position and listened politely to both what was adopted in Resolution 1511 and what has now been adopted in Resolution 1546. But the new thing in the picture, which Åslaug Haga did not comment on, is that the UN has now taken on its own, independent mission in Iraq, and is asking that the Member States also help to protect it. If everyone were to listen in the way the Central Party does, how would the United Nations be able to carry out any mission in Iraq at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e968	In fact, I am pleased that Inge Wohnung now acknowledges that Resolution 1546 represents something new, and that the basis for participation in Iraq looks different after that resolution was adopted than it did before. There is no doubt that we can stand up to Iraq on the basis of the mandate of international law that lies there. Our question now relates to what it is wise to contribute by effort. It is going on in Iraq, but it is also reportedly on the overall picture in relation to where Norwegian efforts are to be made. I am not sure that the wisest thing to do now in Iraq would be that there are staff officers there, but I am absolutely sure it is wise for Norway to concentrate its efforts on Afghanistan. There is also a broad consensus in this room. I believe that we should follow up on the commitments we have in Afghanistan - Norway as other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e976	I think the representative for the payroll question was very relevant. I want to follow this up a little in relation to the Center Party, which I feel is a little fuzzy in many ways and gives a little kick to the Government because it has relied only on the Advance Party. I guess I see that the Progress Party is as serious and as important to create the basis for a majority in the Storting as it is the Center Party. At the same time, I feel that it is a little unclear what the head of the Central Party is now expressing in relation to the new Security Council resolution. Does it open up so that the Central Party can now review the matter again, and also join the majority in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e983	There is no doubt, it is said, that the Government has had a majority in the Storting to have staff officers in Iraq and to continue to have them there after 1 July, and there was a majority in favour of that position before the new resolution was adopted by the Security Council. All the votes are seaworthy as good in this room. But what's historical about it is that there's such a narrow foundation in the Storting-- I can't imagine a single case where you've had such a narrow foundation-- to send military forces. That's what's new. That's what's historic. I would like to think that in terms of that kind of important decision, it is important that the Government has a broadest possible majority behind it in the Storting. Following the adoption of Resolution 1546, the situation is different from what might be needed to contribute from resources and forces in Iraq. I believe it is unwise, as I said, to base the efforts on staff officers. I think we can contribute in a wiser way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e992	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e995	The left joins the Foreign Minister's statement and the perspectives drawn up. International terrorism continues to lead to instability in the security policy situation in the world, as the actions in Madrid gave us a terrible picture, as the Foreign Minister also pointed out. International terrorism is a threat to democracy and must be reduced by international cooperation, where the UN is in the leadership. At the same time, we must also go deeper into the causes of terrorist acts. We need to look at what can be done to restore and improve human trust across religions and regions. The situation in Iraq is still very unstable and unsafe. We are experiencing daily bombing attacks in Baghdad, and the conflict between US occupying forces and local guerrillas in Najaf showed us that there are no simple solutions to the Iraq issue. Nevertheless, the Security Council agrees with Resolution 1546 on the basis of prudent optimism. The resolution provides a basis for transferring sovereignty in the country to the Interim Government on 30 June and provides a basis for a halt to the occupation of the country. Occupancy does not create peace. The international community, on the other hand, must contribute to the development of the country. We must do our part to keep free elections and establish a democratic regime. While we need to be involved in ensuring stability and security in the country, we also have a responsibility to contribute to the establishment of a legitimate Iraqi self-government. The resolution of the most consonant in 1546 provides a good basis for this. The resolution also calls on the UN Member States to make military contributions to the multinational force, which clarifies the basis of international law for Norwegian military participation. The occupying forces' assault on Iraqi prisoners in Abu Ghraib prison is shocking and totally unacceptable. This type of treatment of prisoners is contrary to the èèveconvention, breaking fundamental human rights laws and is therefore contrary to international law. The left is pleased that Norwegian authorities have expressed this to the United States, and that US authorities have carried out investigations of the situation to punish those responsible. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has previously expressed disappointment that the United States has chosen to stand outside the International Criminal Court. This disappointment could be in place to repeat to American authorities. The Foreign Minister points out that in the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians, it appears that the parties are trapped in a vicious circle of attack and revenge. The power and terror cannot be defended, and the Left strongly distances itself from Palestinian terrorist organisations' attacks on civilian Israelis. Similarly, we take equal distance from Israel's brutal actions. There is a great responsibility both on the Palestinian side and on the Israeli side to put an end to the acts of violence. But the Israeli occupation is the underlying reason for today's evil spiral of power and terror, and Israel has as its occupying power a special responsibility for redrawing the dialogue. That's the positive signal we see when the Israeli government now announces that Israel will withdraw from Gaza and four buses on the West Bank. Following up a withdrawal in line with the so-called Road Map is the only way to end the empire in the region. It is therefore important that the international community, especially the Quartet, consisting of the United Nations, the EU, the United States and Russia, put pressure on Israeli authorities, so that withdrawal actually takes place. It is not possible to achieve peace by walling a people inside. The continued construction of the wall by the Israelis is, of course, a feature of the development of the region that gives the least hope for the future. What is supposed to stop terrorists leads to even greater problems for the already hard-pressed Palestinian civilian population. It will be extremely difficult to come to work and visit family on the other side of the wall. The very difficult economic and social conditions of the inhabitants will deteriorate, and the already weak Palestinian economy will be weakened further. We should have come to the historic realization that building walls between countries does not resolve conflicts, rather on the contrary. It took 50 years to break down the wall that divided Europe. We have to do everything in our power to stop the wall, which is now literally separating Israelis and Palestinians, from standing for the same length of time. If we are to build peace, we must build trust. The greatest threat to peace and freedom is an increasing level of conflict between Western democracy and the Arab world. In an atmosphere of distrust and anger, additional forces - including terrorists - will increase the Grobot. The fight against fundamentalism and terrorism must be led by action and strength, but also by a clear anchoring in democratic and human rights values. Peace is based on trust and respect, and must be built primarily through interpersonal interaction and understanding. It is a problem that such interrelationship is far too small between the Western and Arab countries. The left wants us to discuss how Norway can contribute to strengthening such cooperation - between individuals, voluntary organisations, political parties, businesses and others. In this way, we can be involved in and dampen conflicts and sytaes so that mutual understanding and respect are developed to replace prejudices and general aggravation of contradictions and levels of conflict. In the war on terror, humanitarian efforts are in greater danger than ever. We saw this as a false example of killing several Legs without their borders in Afghanistan a few weeks ago. This type of action is only capable of creating fear and instability and makes the situation even worse for the local population, depending on the assistance provided by humanitarian personnel. That terrorists tend to attack unarmed humanitarian personnel is tragic and disgusting. We rely on humanitarian organisations to also operate under the protection of neutrality in future conflicts. A combination of military and humanitarian efforts, as we have seen examples of both in Afghanistan and in Iraq, is helping to threaten the neutrality on which the voluntary organisations depend. The Red Cross states that they can only fulfill their mandate and provide victims of conflict protection and assistance where there is a humanitarian space available to and respected by all. When an organisation like the Red Cross, with its history, feels that the understanding of real humanitarian efforts and the need to preserve a humanitarian space is under pressure, yes, then there is a danger signal that the world must take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1021	The Minister of Foreign Affairs, for the most part, celebrates his presentation of the problems of terrorism in the extremely conflict-affected situation in the Middle East and Afghanistan. In this context, he should perhaps also take into account the problems of international society in dealing with the acute situation in Kosovo. Of course, it is important to focus on conflicts in the world that have come out of control. It is good that Norway can play a positive role in relieving such conflicts, but the Coastal Party considers it at least equally important that Norway focusses on how to prevent conflicts and prevent limited conflicts from escalating. In this work we will be able to find several of the answers to what is the cause of international terrorism. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be able to engage more actively here than in practical policies and stimulate research. A major cause of conflict is the distortion of the distribution of power and resources. Therefore, individual countries should be guaranteed control of their own resources. This improves the possibility of equalising inequalities within the country and provides a basis for real democracy. The Coastal Party wishes international cooperation between independent and state-run nation states. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentions the EU’s neighbouring country policy as an important instrument for increasing stability and developing the Middle East region. Increased trade, reform and modernisation in this area are absolutely necessary. It must be taken as a matter of fact that Norway should have the same approach to the Middle East as the EU. On the contrary, Norway should be on guard against the role of the EU as a major economic power. It's not the people and the real values that are being focused on. The Coastal Party is increasingly concerned that the EU is changing its policy towards developing countries. Formerly very favourable aid agreements are increasingly being replaced by agreements involving counterparts from EU countries, such as the United States and Japan. market access, the liberalisation of the capital market, etc. In addition, the EU buys fish quotas in poor African countries and in the economic zones. In order to help these countries build their own fishing industry and their own industry, Norway, which has the best assumptions, can provide self-help to these countries. I guess I'm one of the few, maybe the only, who's worked in a developing country. I've been in Somalia for two years, fishing for the World Bank. Teaching the people of developing countries fishing is much better than providing them with emergency aid. By fishing, they can have food. But we're giving emergency help. I don't think the wheel is invented in the fishing industry in Somalia yet. They pulled their guts on the rack when I was there, and I think they're doing it today. And the shrimp pass, which goes around, wasn't invented, it wasn't used by the fishermen. Maybe there's too little money to sell yarn cards? Maybe that's why they're not being used, and in developing countries, they're still hanging around. Gradually, Norway should strengthen efforts to build alliances between autonomous and popularised states fighting for common interests in the WTO and the United Nations. The coastal party will continue to work towards an equivalent level of regional cooperation between western Nordic countries, inter alia. to ensure control of the large resources we have in the Norwegian Sea. We're a major force in the Norwegian Sea - so far. The question is, is it politicians who have to decide, or is it private? This cooperation should be a model of regional cooperation in other parts of the world and could provide a clear alternative to the EU model, creating centralisation of power and bureaucracy, democratic problems and imperialism. The question is, who should own the natural resources that I talked about? Is it private that has to own them, or are we politicians who have to control them? I also have to deal with another question, and it's about the difference between the assets and the money. Real estate is the natural resources and the values we have in the country. We have no control over money. Now this government is trying to sell capital and turn it into money. They sell bit by bit and turn it into money, and take away the real control of real values, which are natural resources. This is happening today -- privatisation, of course, it's called. Can the Government really believe that it is the one who has money, who is going to get the most out of the natural resources, and who is going to own those natural resources, and that you are going to deprive this house of ownership and political control over them? The coastal area is opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1042	Yes, I suppose that is also the representative Nybakk, but I am not sure whether this is the topic of today's debate. This debate takes place in return at a very historic time: in front of a very important NATO meeting and after the enlargement of both the EU and NATO. For many years, such debates would be marked by expressions such as'stability' or 'Norwegian foreign policy'. The cold war was both stable and predictable. Following the fall of the Berlin Wall, both foreign and security policy is highly unpredictable. At the same time, foreign policy and international policy are getting much closer today to people's everyday lives. The terrorist attacks in Madrid, for example, may lead to a discussion in the kitchen of Ola and Kari if they are going on vacation to Spain. The future-optimism that marked the years after 1989 is significantly weakened. We have had warriors and ethnic cleansing in the Balkans, and we see that there is still concern there. We still see poverty in post-Soviet areas, we have nuclear material on the avei, and the nuclear waste in North-West Russia, according to Bellona, is enough to make a large number of so-called "dirty bombs". It burns in the Middle East, we have war in Iraq, we still have instability in large parts of Africa, and we have the emergence of terrorism. All of this creates uncertainty and uncertainty about the future, including for most people. But there's a lot of positive happening. Maybe we could say 1 May this year marked the definitive end of the cold war. Europe was reassembled to one continent. The EU was expanded by ten new Member States. One month earlier, NATO was expanded by seven new countries. Several of the countries we are talking about here were not even independent states 15 years ago. We probably forgot. The EU enlargement to the east is likely to represent the greatest solidarity promise since the Marshall Plan, and is a significant contribution to a more peaceful and more stable Europe. Together with NATO enlargement, the EU is now the guarantor of continued democratisation in former Eastern Europe, including well-being, human rights and democracy. The EU is also likely to contribute to the improvement of human rights in Turkey. NATO is going to this summit as a pan-European and transatlantic defence and security alliance. The next steps that should now be taken must be in the direction of the Balkans. It is interesting to look at the Adriatic cooperation between Croatia, Albania and Macedonia, but also Serbia-Montenegro and Bosnia-Herzegovina should be involved as soon as possible in institutional cooperation, preferably as a PFP country – Partnership for Peace countries. Of course, they need to be assessed individually, but there is still a need for a regional approach in the Balkans, in my view. When we dealt with the defence reform a week ago, we very well clarified the principles of Norwegian participation in international operations. Everyone, with the exception of the Progress Party, felt that both legality and legitimacy were necessary, and it had to be clearly enshrined in international law. The UN gives a mandate and chooses to whom the mission is to be given. Nevertheless, the majority of the Defence Committee felt that participation in UN operations should be increased within the limited capacities of Norway. The same majority also argued that Norway should oppose preventative warfare and pre-emptive war. There is a broad consensus in the Storting about our involvement in Afghanistan. We have made Afghanistan a cooperation country for Norwegian aid, and we are participating with stabilisation forces, which we are likely to do for years to come. New Norwegian officers and soldiers will be going to Kabul in a short time, and this time with a large amount of women. Why? These girls can make an invaluable effort to ensure that Afghan women come to work or school. They can also communicate with women in a completely different way than male officers can. Finally, I would like to remind the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the responsibility I believe Norway has to ensure that Security Council Resolution 1325, that women should be included in all peace negotiations and in the democratic process following a war, and that we also ensure that the world community follows that resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1065	Let me begin by saying that it is with a certain amazement that I am recording the disparaging -- I must say almost ridiculous -- of the value of having staff officers in Iraq who have been expressed by some of those who have made contributions here today. We have to take with us that it happens at the will of the United Nations. For our part, we believed that the basis of the 1511 resolution was good enough, and that is further reinforced in Resolution 1546. In a situation where we agree to prioritize Afghanistan's efforts in relation to what we actually have of capacity, we have come up with an offer to contribute with staff officers. It actually seems to be well received. I think it must be a troubling situation compared to those who actually do this important job that is valued on the spot. I think one should accept the Workers' Party's justification for their Iraq position, which is that these are capacities. But it's interesting to see that there's a gap from the Workers' Party to the SV, which gives a more fundamental reason that it's alarming - yes, historically alarming - that we're present with staff officers in Iraq. So it's alarming that we're following up a UN decision. What I really want to spend the most time on is the Middle East conflict, which many people have been involved in, is crucial for the further development of the whole region. I am basing the Foreign Minister's clear demonstration in the statement that there is a conflict of a fundamental political nature and therefore also requires political solutions. As it has been for several years, the main elements are the question of borders, i.e. the settlements, for that matter the wall, and, secondly, the refugee question, which is very sensitive. Less sensitive is not the third element, the status of Jerusalem. Of course, violence and terror dominate attention from day to day. It is a general view that a final solution must lead to two viable independent countries. Fortunately, it also seems to be the opinion of the majority of both population groups. It is an inspiration for those of us who are involved differently in negotiating work in the region. The question then is how to get it done. I think it is absolutely essential, as the statement shows, that the Roadmap for Peace is still at the root. I remember that in a conference in New York last summer it was a main theme if not the road map now was dead. I think one should be very careful with such descriptions. We don't have better tools to deal with. We're going to hope that the road map has nine lives. Secondly, the Quartet must commit itself more and more directly. To the extent that the chairman of the Committee has been involved in an earlier report, the Committee: It can be done in different ways. But it is clear that what is going to happen - or probably happen - in Gaza, will require follow-up, and that it will be done in a context of other developments, under a certain control. It might seem like it's absolutely necessary when you see what's going on in the field in the same area right now. I then think of the changed course of the wall, in the direction of the settlement of Ariel on the West Bank. It may seem that there is an absolute need for things to be seen more in context. Thirdly, in addition to military and political instruments, one must use economic instruments to show that there is a better future for both populations, in cooperation with the other countries around the Mediterranean. It's obviously far ahead, but we have to start going the right way soon. To succeed, I think there are three groups that have to contribute, and that one has to bring all the way. It is for the first party itself that has to go to the negotiating table. Secondly, it is the international community with the Quartet, where I think Norway has contributed and still has contacts and channels to contribute through. Thirdly, it's not least the region itself, i.e. the Arab world, which must contribute. I had the opportunity to attend a meeting in Amman in Jordan the week before 17 May, where the Presidents of Parliament from all neighbouring countries to Iraq were present. One of the purposes was to challenge the region itself to cooperate on its own future. The question is how these Arab countries will evolve, and which way they choose. That gives a hope of 60 pst. by the population in the UNDP survey says they are choosing a democratic direction for the future. The question then is what they put in it. If they put in free elections, freedom of expression and representative political leadership, I think they're in. But I think they also expect a separate element of culture and tradition in the way it's designed, and then I think it's absolutely necessary that, for our part, we show that we live up to our own values -- international law, conventions -- when we're on foreign land.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1091	I am pleased that there is a broad majority in this Chamber to concentrate our international efforts in areas where we can achieve results. The situation in Afghanistan is becoming increasingly critical, and lately the working conditions of humanitarian organisations and relief workers have become even more difficult. There have been a number of tragic killings. It happened with the Bergens-Legend Egil Kristian Tynæs and four of his colleagues a short time ago, where the Taliban claimed they were behind, and with the Norwegian soldier Tommy Rødningsby, who died in a rocket attack in Kabul. I also want to express compassion for the survivors. It makes a strong impression, and gives us a closer look at the brutality that is taking place in that region. The international community has a great responsibility to contribute to the development of stable democracy in Afghanistan, and the big question is which instruments we can contribute to meet this objective. Norway has made Afghanistan a major cooperation country for our assistance, and it is a good initiative. In the SV, we have also supported our contribution to the international security force, ISAF, which has a clear UN mandate, but we have asked critical questions to extend this force to other areas of Afghanistan through the so-called PRTs or stabilisation teams. This scepticism is related to the fact that the effect of this expansion seems unclear. It also applies in relation to the humanitarian space, upon which the humanitarian aid organisations are fully dependent in order to carry out their activities in Afghanistan in security. There's nothing to suggest that this room is being expanded when military use comes in, rather on the contrary. SV has also pointed out that stabilisation teams under the direction of ISAF are to be led by Operation Enduring Freedom, which is the coalition, with the United States at the head, which led and partially waged the war against terrorism in Afghanistan. It is essential, in our view, for the legitimacy of ISAF that they are not mixed either in command or operational terms with Operation Renewing Freedom. This gives reason to ask questions as to whether it is wise to extend the ISAF operations in the regions of Afghanistan if it is not possible to guarantee the safety of ISAF without the support of Operation Renewing Freedom. We can't gamble with security. Then it is better to operate in more limited parts of the country. This is a real problem. There are many NATO countries that hesitate to send forces into Afghanistan because of the security situation. The warlords in Afghanistan mainly finance their activities with income from drug production. This is the greatest threat to possible democracy in Afghanistan, and this must be more fully addressed by the international community. I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to give this work a higher priority. The situation in the Balkans is unstable. The uprising in Kosovo in the spring showed us that there is a very long way to go before peaceful coexistence between ethnic groups becomes a daily diet in this region. The road to collapse in these societies is pretty short. Norway will reduce its military presence in Kosovo this year, and we support that. At the same time, we believe that efforts to contribute to the reconciliation and establishment of democratic institutions in these countries need to be stepped up, so that countries do not fall apart and become the backbone of heavy international crime. The Secretary of State in his speech raised the fear of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and that it is the United Nations that must have the leading and coordinating role in this work. Resolution 1540 is a good starting point for this work. This resolution gives the Security Council a central role, while stressing the importance of global disarmament and non-proliferation agreements. The resolution requires all countries to step up their efforts in this area. At the last preparatory conference before the next non-proliferation supervisory conference, there were hardly any points of light. It goes the wrong way for global disarmament and non-proliferation work, not least because the United States now chooses to withdraw gradually from this work and rather prefers to put direct pressure on other countries, while at the same time expanding its arsenal of nuclear weapons for special applications and establishing its missile defence. SV expects the Government to make considerable efforts to ensure that the disarmament and non-proliferation regime is not weakened next year, but reinforced to all those who hold or can obtain weapons of mass destruction. If we get in the situation that these agreements are being undermined, the probability that we will experience a new giant arms race will also be imminent in space. According to the Swedish SIPRI, about SEK 6,400 billion was spent on military purposes last year - an increase of 11 p.m. from the previous year. There's nothing to suggest that upgrading will give people on this globe greater security, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1110	The Middle East and North Africa currently represent a foreign and security policy challenge affecting the whole of Europe, in line with what the Balkans are doing. Geographical distance does not protect Norway in a world that is becoming ever smaller. A conflict in the region or a political, economic or social breakdown in a country in the region therefore also affects Norway. Many in this area do not trust the West. In the Western world, we have to take a lot of the blame for that. When we demand democracy and respect for human rights, we demand this from all, regardless of nationality and religious and political affiliation. We demand it from close friends and from allies. We demand it from ourselves, and we have to live up to it. We must therefore condemn abuses of human rights, no matter who commits them. Therefore, Norway has also been ready to condemn the arrest in Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. I took this up directly with President Bush when I met him in Normandy last weekend. I clearly said that the treatment of prisoners was unacceptable, contrary to international conventions, and that it has damaged the reputation of the West in the Arab world. The government has also addressed the treatment of prisoners on the Guantanamo base with the United States. There are no valid excuses for violating human rights and international humanitarian law. We must condemn assault, even if they are meant to prevent terrorist attacks. We must condemn terrorist attacks and other attacks, even if they are intended to combat an occupying party. The intention does not sanctify the means. This does not mean that we equate all the abuses we condemn, nor that we equate those responsible for the various abuses. But human rights and international humanitarian law apply equally to all. There's no excuse to break them. The reports of the UN Development Fund on human development in the Arab countries are alarming. They show a region characterised by poverty, uneven distribution, deficits in democracy and a lack of respect for human rights. The reports have been written by persons from the region. This is just one of several signs that many in the area want a change. Several Heads of State or Government in the Middle East and North Africa now call for reforms. This is a good start. Norway and other Western countries must assist reforms in the region. We can't passively see that the gap is getting bigger. We must promote cooperation between Western countries and the countries east and south of the Mediterranean, based on common values and objectives. This cooperation must cover trade, culture, human rights and security issues. Cooperation must be based on mutual respect. We need to help reduce economic and social differences, and we need to combat enemy images and stereotypes that create tensions between population groups and regions. Many conflicts are being explained today with religious contradictions or fanaticism, not least in the geographical area we are now talking about. Often we have to do with a dispute about territorial control, ethnic groups' demands for autonomy or strong nationalism. Although this is sometimes not a religious theme, it often does not have much to do with religion - rather, on the contrary. Instead of being part of conflicts, I think religion can be turned into a part of the solution. All too often, religious faith is distorted and abused to create hatred, mistrust and thus a base for conflict and war. I have great faith in promoting meetings between religious leaders. I myself have had the pleasure of facilitating such meetings, and even participated in them, among others. in Sarajevo, Bethlehem, Cairo, and New York. I intend to follow this up elsewhere. Living faith is, as Gandhi once said, an acceptance of the brotherhood between all people. Religious leaders are therefore the first to show understanding of other religions and to work for tolerance. Religious leaders can, with greater credibility than others - in word and deed - counter the poison extremists spread in the name of religion. By discussing differences and similarities in religions, we can identify common values, such as human dignity, reconciliation and respect for the holy. This is how we can work together for human rights, peace and development, based on a common understanding of the objectives. The challenge is to bring this understanding from the religious leadership and down to the grassroots. Tolerance is a prerequisite. Without respect for the faith and full freedom of religion of others, it is difficult to talk about human dignity and human rights. We all have to tolerate that others are not exactly like us. We have to tolerate other customs and other beliefs. We have to tolerate other religions, without even giving up what we think is right. At the same time, we must make demands. We cannot compromise on the human rights, which are coming out of human dignity. Human dignity is a cornerstone of the great world religions. The international work for religious dialogue must be strengthened and coordinated. This is an important part of a strategy to meet the challenges in the relationship between the West and the Muslim world, particularly in countries in the Middle East and in North Africa. It is hardly any other political issue that occupies the population of the Middle East and North Africa more than the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. There is probably no issue that means more to the credibility of Western countries in the region. It's not easy to find a permanent solution. It must satisfy the legitimate demands of the Palestinian people on its own country. It must also provide Israel with security. Large victims are required from the parties. The Palestinians must stop the terror, and Israel must withdraw completely from occupied territories. We welcome Prime Minister Sharon's notice of withdrawal from Gaza as an important first step. But it has to be negotiated in line with the Roadmap for Peace, as presented by the so-called Quartet. Those participating in it must coordinate their efforts to bring the parties back to the negotiating table. The occupying powers of Iraq, the United States and the United Kingdom have a special responsibility for the success of the democratic process in Iraq. But other countries also need to participate actively. It would be a disaster not only for the Iraqi people, but also for the credibility of the West, if this process did not succeed. Resolution 1546, adopted by the United Nations Security Council on 8 June, provides a good basis for this and for the cessation of the occupation. Humanitarian aid from Norway to Iraq will be continued. We will also participate in the multinational force to assist in the stabilisation process, with some staff officers, and contribute to the establishment of a new Iraqi defence under democratic control. We know today that Iraq hardly had the weapons of mass destruction that the United States and the United Kingdom claimed to justify the war. This shows that the Norwegian line that the UN inspectors should have more time was the right one. But we cannot rule out countries in the region wanting to acquire such weapons. We must try to stop this very dangerous development. Those who have or are about to acquire such weapons should follow Libya’s example. If not, they contribute to building up a deadly race that could have disastrous consequences, both for the region and for the rest of the world. Norway will continue its active Middle East diplomacy, where peacemaking and democratisation are the key objectives. We have a moral duty to do this, but it is also in our own interest. At the same time, we will promote cooperation between the West and the countries of the Middle East and North Africa across a wide range of areas, based on mutual respect and common values.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1146	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1149	I agree with the Prime Minister that Prime Minister Sharon's plan of withdrawal from Gaza must be welcomed. It's a historic chance if it's the first step to a complete withdrawal from all the occupied areas, and if it happens in a way that doesn't create more evil blood. I've taken up five points in my post that I think are important for the latter to happen, among other things. that a plan to this end is negotiated between the parties to the United Nations and that the UN Security Council is responsible for confirming that a withdrawal has taken place and, where appropriate, when it has been concluded. Another important point, which I believe is very crucial, is that the dwellings that Israel has had, and other buildings in Gaza, are not leveled with the earth, but left to an international body, for example. The World Bank -- against compensation, of course -- so that the Palestinians can benefit from these buildings gradually. The opposite would create very much bad blood. I want to ask the Prime Minister about these points, and the others that I brought up in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1161	It is my impression, after the intervention of the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that we broadly share the analysis of the situation in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and also of the way forward. As I also said in my post, the withdrawal from Gaza is a first step, and it must be complete. It is the parties who have to negotiate a final agreement, but it is quite clear that they need to be assisted in it. The United Nations Quartet, the EU, Russia and the United States must increase their efforts to find a framework for getting the parties to the negotiating table. But I also think it's a good idea -- and it could be a cornerstone of everything -- that the UN, which is also part of the Quartet, can confirm such a plan through its Security Council. I also agree with the views of Jagland on the fact that houses and other buildings that Israel is evacuating are not being destroyed, but that Israel is being compensated for them, and that they can benefit the Palestinians. Nor can I see anything but that the other points of the five that Mr. Jagland presented in his speech are well in line with the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1175	International terrorism is among the things that are now growing and that all countries must fight. Many of the acts of terrorism have obviously been carried out by Islamist fascists or Islamic fundamentalist organisations such as Al Qaida and other fundamentalist organisations. They probably also have representatives in European countries. There have been terrorist acts in Madrid, and there is growing unrest in other countries. Does the Prime Minister agree that what now appears is actually an advance for Islamist fundamentalism and fascism? And how does the Government want to prepare Norway for any acts of terrorism? Does the Prime Minister agree that the fight against Islamist fascism is something that would make sense to stop this wave, and what does the Prime Minister think about the features seen in many countries exposed to terrorism?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1182	International terrorism, together with the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, is the two greatest threats we are facing today in terms of international peace and security. It is obvious that terrorism has its roots in the Islamic fundamentalist environment, which, unfortunately, we also have to count on is spread across large parts of the world, and with groups in Europe as well. They have to be controlled. That is the broad consensus. The question is how to combat them most effectively. Sometimes a person has to use military instruments, but it becomes increasingly obvious that they are not sufficient. Should a fight against terrorism, one must also analyse its roots and have a wide range of instruments, and that was exactly what I was in my post. It has to do with culture, social, economic and political conditions, and creating a growing understanding among and a dialogue with moderate forces within these environments with which one can come to terms - a broad field to combat terrorism. I do not have one-sided belief in military instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1189	I am pleased that the Prime Minister can now state that he himself has raised with President Bush a clear protest against the treatment that Iraqi prisoners have been subjected to in Abu Ghraib prison, and that he is so resolute in his distance from the abuse we have seen, which is totally unacceptable. I see that the Prime Minister has nothing to give in relation to how international law is to be interpreted. It is very important that Norway's voice is very clear on this, and I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his contribution. Then I wish the Prime Minister were with us to sum up what has been achieved in the fight against terror under the leadership of the United States since the war against Iraq. From many teams in the United States, it is now established that the fight against terrorism has taken many steps back, and that the war against Iraq has recruited more terrorists, created more evil blood, has simply made the world a more dangerous place than before the war, and not the opposite. Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1196	As I said in my post, and also in the line to Carl I. Hagen, terrorism is a growing problem. It is true that we have also seen acts of terrorism in Iraq after the war. Now there was no very good relationship in Iraq before either, and more and more of what happened during Saddam Hussein comes out. It was also a gross violation of international law and human rights. But we've also seen an example of that afterwards. This underlines what I have said, and which is a key point for me: terrorism cannot be attacked by military means alone, but in some cases it is necessary. There was a broad political consensus also in Norway that in the case of Afghanistan it was necessary. We knew that Al Qaida had its main network in this country. It had to be broken down. I think we have achieved a good deal in that way, but the father is of course always that it spreads to other countries. So let's see. It has to be controlled. The Iraq war was against Norway. It was a war that was actually not started because of the terrorist argument, but because of the possibility of weapons of mass destruction. They don't turn out to be there, as far as we know.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1205	We are very pleased with the way in which the Prime Minister underlines the need to live up to international humanitarian law and that everyone has a duty to do so. We are also pleased that he condemns the abuses in Abu Ghraib prison in such clear order, and that he discusses this with Heads of Government around. Then the prime minister is well aware that our participation in various international operations also makes us vulnerable. And my question is what concrete action is being taken on the part of the Government to ensure that our soldiers can't get involved in any kind of assault. I have full confidence in our soldiers, but I wonder what steps you take to ensure that they can't be attached to this either. There is dialogue with partners, for example: in Afghanistan? Is this considered appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1212	It is clear that participation in international peace operations, as Norway does, and as we should continue to do, also brings Norwegian soldiers up in difficult situations, which can be both a military and a security challenge, but of course also a humanitarian challenge. I feel quite certain that in the Norwegian defence there is such a clear training in international conventions and the right to prison and other issues relating to war and war-like situations, that the awareness of what is not allowed is great. It is quite clear that what has happened in Iraq has become a powerful reminder of it. We have discussed this on the Norwegian Government team, and I can assure you that our Minister of Defence is aware of this and will ensure that the signals go into the system, that Norwegian soldiers of course should never take part in acts contrary to international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1219	I fully share the Prime Minister's view that the objective does not sanctify the means, and that in the fight against terrorism it is a great responsibility for the democratic West to ensure that human rights and international law are respected. The prison treatment in Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay has been largely nerdy in negative feelings toward the West and has done great damage. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister is addressing this in various forums. My question to the Prime Minister is, what was the concrete Prime Minister's question to President Bush about the treatment of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1228	As for the Guantanamo base, our foreign minister has addressed this with his colleague and the American authorities. That's why the Norwegian view of it is very well known. What I was given the opportunity to discuss with President Bush now in Normandy a week and a half ago was the prison treatment in Iraq. I explained that in my article. The speech was loud and clear, and President Bush replied that he agreed that this was unacceptable and that those responsible were to be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1235	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1239	All right, first of all, a little side note. This debate has revealed that the SV and the Workers' Party are still living on each of their own globes in terms of the vision of NATO, and it is going to be exciting to see in the continuation what kind of globe the designed majority government on the left-hand side intends to settle on if it should become relevant. Just as the fall of the Berlin Wall on 9 November 1989 was a turning point in history, the terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September 2001 is a turning point of historical dimensions. The attack has led to major changes in most international issues. What has been on the international agenda is, in particular, the question of what threats are currently at the heart of peace and security, how to combat these threats, the patterns of cooperation that have developed to protect themselves against the threats. The international community's fight against terrorism must have a comprehensive perspective. Adequate military instruments must be part of a larger whole, where civil, political and economic instruments are also important. It is only through such an overall approach that one will be able to address the causes of terrorism. Why is it so important to focus on the cause, and not just on the specific acts of terrorism? In my view, the reason for this is that terrorism has become a global threat today. Terrorist organisations use the channels created by globalisation to hit innocent people in the most spectacular way possible. They are organised in loose international networks with support structures in several regions. These terrorist networks have comprehensive channels of funding, intelligence and access to weapons. There is a shift towards ever closer links to organised crime. The complex expression of terrorism requires complex responses from the international community. For us in Norway, it is of great importance to stress that the EU and NATO are an indispensable institutional framework for combating terrorism. The reason for this is that Norway views its foreign policy interests related to a multilateral and institution-based international system. International law shall prevail. The UN shall provide the basis for Norway’s foreign policy. Regional organisations such as the EU and NATO shall contribute to ensuring the necessary instruments and efficiency for the UN. Therefore, these regional organisations are a prerequisite for an effective UN system. Without that, the entire UN system is suspended. Such an approach is the very basis for understanding the management of current safety challenges. An excellent example of how different instruments can be combined in a comprehensive perspective is the EU Stability Pact for the Balkans. The Stability Pact was adopted at the Cologne European Council in 1999. The EU was the initiator, but more than 40 partner countries and organisations have joined this pact. The challenges facing the EU and the rest of the international community in this region today clearly demonstrate the need for a comprehensive and broad approach to security. Security is first and foremost linked to the reconstruction of civil infrastructure, security sector reform, the principles of rule by law, but it also involves a longer-term change of state security measures that are initially linked to thinking about how to cooperate with other countries. The treatment of national and ethnic minorities is also highly important in this region. Military presence is part of a larger whole, with the aim of rebuilding the Balkans in such a way that the countries of the region can eventually achieve full membership of the EU. This is based on the same logic as the enlargement of the EU and involves an objective to extend the Western European peace zone to the Balkans. Although the prevention of conflicts around the world is an objective in itself, it can also be seen as a way of bringing to life the underlying causes of terrorism and international crime. It explains why this EU initiative has received increased attention in the period since 11 September 2001. Conflict prevention in third countries has been defined by the EU as one of the main instruments in the fight against terrorism. In my opinion, this overall approach, which the EU strategy for the Balkans involves, is an example that can be used with great benefit in other regions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1258	After hearing the last posts, I will continue where the previous speech ends, because what is happening in our part of Europe is an essential part of Norway's international work to create stability and peace. The Balkans is one of these areas, where Inge Wage was in. I just want to give some additional comments on what Inge Wage says, not in contradiction, but in accordance with what he says, and a little more concretely. Firstly, during this week, we experience Croatia being invited to start negotiations on EU membership, after all, in the next year. It is a further step in the direction that Inge Wohnung pointed out that Europe and European cooperation are an instrument for stability and development. What is important is the EU and Europe, and Norway is influencing the EU to think in a holistic way in such a context, and that one sees the Europeanisation of this remaining region in southeastern Europe as one of its main objectives. It is laid down in Thessaloniki Decisions, etc. as a goal, but it says some action. The start of Croatia is positive. I would also like to highlight the takeover of the military forces in Bosnia-Herzegovina during the year or the start of next year as additional measures. It is then important that one sees this as part of a general Europeanisation of the area, in the sense that Europe takes on greater responsibility. For Bosnia-Herzegovina, it should mean that one sees a clearer fusion of military presence and political responsibility, in other words that one sees this in conjunction with the dismantling of the High Representative's role, that the EU is given a clearer responsibility, that the integration strategy becomes a very clear part of it, and that Bosnia-Herzegovina can start an approach to the EU in practice. It is also important that one sees this EU cooperation in the context of NATO's cooperation in the area, and I am very pleased that the Government has shown such an active attitude that NATO should take greater responsibility for military and security cooperation in the area. That is the debt in relation to Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia and Montenegro. Then it's important to use the strategy to work together to change, instead of confrontation to change. It is important that the Government keeps that line. I fully support what the government has done, and I hope that there is also the line ahead, given that it is better to take advantage of the positive forces that exist, to change the necessary key points, than to wait until the changes happen, because they may not happen. It says that an area that I want to take very concretely. This is the relationship with Kosovo, which is actually the only real problem that remains. Here it is important that one thinks in the same direction that we were in with Bosnia-Herzegovina, that it is a fusion of military security and political work that is the way forward. In other words, when it comes to the presence of the UN through UNMIC and KFOR, there is a need for much stronger coordination, because the security of the area cannot be maintained in the long term by military presence if the political reforms do not work. It is also important that civil administration be able to carry out concrete reforms in key areas and that they develop an authority to enable them to do so. A Europeanisation in this area could also be a way to go. There is little help in saying that by raising the standard of living, national ambitions disappear. They may want to, but they don't. The Kosovar Albanian national ambitions are no worse than other national ambitions, and they will not be lost if a lot is thought of them. If the UNMC is thinking about the national ambitions, it will not be gone. It is important to understand that there is an actual reality that there are such ambitions and that it must be backed up by the policies that are being pursued. The conclusion is that the role of UNMC in the area needs to be re-examined quite extensively, and I believe that conversion is plausible in a different context from what one sees from rather extreme national forces both in Serbia and in Kosovo. But it's important that the civil administration becomes more efficient. I hope that the Norwegian government will also help to streamline the civil administration, to try to bring the situation out of that area, and that one in the meantime is willing to sustain the military presence needed for security. But military security is not a permanent solution in the area. There must be a political solution. New measures are also needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1273	My impression is that more and more U.S. Congress representatives and senators realize that it was a mistake to support the attack on Iraq. The result of the war, as the Foreign Minister also said, is not a world of more security and less terror. The opposite seems, unfortunately, to be the case. Much of the sympathy the United States gained from all over the world just after September 11th disappeared when the main focus was to wage the war against Iraq instead of completing the job in Afghanistan. The U.S. NATO Ambassador recently said that job number one is Afghanistan. Then it must be allowed to ask: why does the largest NATO country have 130 000 soldiers in Iraq and only 13 000 in Afghanistan? When the American public now realizes that intelligence reports and sharp warnings about weapons of mass destruction do not prove to hold water, it becomes more difficult to see what was the purpose of the war, which is so costly that it affects the US economy, and where thousands of lives have been lost. George Bush tried correctly to redefine the purpose when he visited London earlier in ours. He then said that the purpose of the war was to bring more democracy and freedom to the Middle East. We have to count the principles of the rule of law and the fundamental human rights. Just there was some loss of credibility when the first images from the capture processing began to come in. It must also be allowed to ask: if the aim is to bring democracy to the Middle East, why choose a strategy to attack the most hostile country in the region, instead of trying to start a dialogue on this with more friendly countries, such as the United States. Kuwait and Saudi Arabia? The war on terror is not a war in the usual sense, but a conflict between the United States and other Western countries on the one hand, and a network of Islamist extremists on the other. Terrorism is what these extremists use, and terrorist acts in various parts of the world lately remind us that the aim of terror is to violate human dignity and take the security of innocents. These are hateful acts that there is every reason to condemn in the strongest sense. At the same time, we have to look forward and ask ourselves, how can we remove the pit of terror? We need a long-term, expanded strategy to eliminate relationships that breed fanaticism and recruit terrorists. Poverty does not automatically create terror. Terrorists are rarely among the poorest in their countries, and there is not much terrorism in the poorest countries. But the experience of social injustice and the lack of democracy and civil rights can give rise to terror. The same can be true of failed or weak countries, rapid modernisation and weathering of traditional values and social patterns. Preventing terror is less demanding than repairing it. That is why we must counter everything that gives fanaticism growth conditions, and therefore our response to terrorism must be exactly what the terrorists will tear away, work for human rights and increase interfaith between cultural, political and religious divisions. We must support religious dialogue, as stated by the Prime Minister, work for mutual respect, promote a culture of peace and remove elements of mission, education and service that create hatred. The fight against poverty is necessary. The same is true of the work of democracy and peaceful conflict resolution. A prerequisite for this is to protect the global institutions, not least the UN. World society cannot afford to fail in Afghanistan. The people of Afghanistan must not be subjected to yet another civil war or even more years under the control of local warlords. Norway supported the action ‘Enduring Freedom’ and thus has a joint responsibility to get Afghanistan back on track. NATO shall, through the ISAF team, subsequently assume responsibility for the security situation in major parts of Afghanistan. Unfortunately, it has proved difficult for NATO to put in place sufficient forces to achieve this, in particular those parts of the valuable strength contributions, such as helicopter capacity. Norway needs to deliver its part here, while we need to do what we can to get other NATO countries and cooperating countries to contribute. Religious freedom is an important value for the Christian People's Party. The requirement for respect for the right to freedom of religion must be part of the Norway and Norwegian delegations’ concerns with countries in question, as often as the occasion affords. It may be uncomfortable to address, but it means a lot to the minorities involved, that foreign government officials care. Norway spends considerable resources on military involvement in Norway and abroad, and on emergency aid in conflict situations. But it's really quite clear that it's both cheaper and gives an infinite amount of less human suffering if we can build peace and create reconciliation through dialogue and mediation. With limited resources, we can achieve great things in terms of peace and reconciliation, and Norway should, in my view, invest even more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1299	We have to teach our children to solve conflicts with words and not with weapons. Those were words that former President Clinton used a while ago after a disaster at an American school where fellow students used automatic weapons and 13-14 lives were lost. When I register on Saturdays and Sundays what happens on children's TV, what we see on video cassettes both at home and at youth cafés, who are the heroes of the movies we see today, we can really ask questions if we follow up on what was wise words from an American president. Our foreign minister said we have to look at the conditions that lie behind the individual assumptions. And when we hear the representative Igland quote what is being presented to children in the war zones that we have heard a lot about here, I am convinced that the good goals we must work hard to achieve. There are small prospects, as I see it. We're so good at criticizing. We've turned towards the United States. We see it's assault. All political parties distance themselves from it. It was just supposed to be missing. But we see that it's an assault - we read about it in the media - also in our own country that is in violation of international law in many ways. We don't have to go abroad to find things that really don't tolerate today's light. I also want to remember that it was Europe that asked the United States to help clean up the Balkans. It wasn't an American wish to use military resources. But the result of the world situation we now have is that only the United States is able to enter into such operations as in Afghanistan, in the Balkans and in Iraq. This is really a cross of thought. Those who are most opposed to NATO cooperation, a European defence system, should really think a little bit about: what is really the alternative to what we have today, that is, a strong NATO led by the United States. That is said very much sensible in the debate. I think that maybe a little too little is pointing to solutions. Much has been focused on the issues and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has major challenges to follow-up. I also think that what the Blankenburg representative was about, following up the individual groups, is important, and not just in Kosovo and Croatia, which are now in focus; it is also important that we support the Serbs in the construction of their country. It turns out that it's not just going into a conflict. It must also be followed up. Finally, I have a call that I think is very important, and it is that the Storting gathers around the foreign policy followed by the Government. It is important that our soldiers who contribute to peace and stability in the world feel that they have the political environment in Norway behind them, that we do not argue about minor things in this room, instead of backing up those who are going to do a job and try to get stability. I record that in the last month we have had visits from both China, Russia and Ukraine. In Europe, they are concerned about how Norway works on the external side. We have great authority. Norway has great credibility in the work we do. These countries look up to Norway. I think we might think about both once and twice before we say that Norway would have even more influence if we had been a member of the European Community. I notice very well that the Eastern European countries are proud nations that want to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1320	I would like to say that my 20-year experience here in the Chamber as a representative suggests that the last week of the session is a very, very difficult week. I am fully aware of that. I am therefore very grateful for the fact that it was possible to have both a presentation and such a broad debate, although this is the last week, because we are now facing some very difficult and problematic questions. That is why it has been good to have this debate as a basis for administration beyond the rest of the year. I would also like to thank you for having been a calm debate. This means that I feel safe on the course and the choices that have been made. I think there have been a few interesting clarifications in this debate, and not least one of the interesting clarifications has been linked to the premise for the discord that might be about a very limited number of staff officers to Iraq. The Chairman of the Committee was very clear that he felt that capacity should be used differently. It's in many ways a reasoning that I can follow. I think it's a very straightforward disagreement we're facing here. I have formulated myself so on a number of occasions that it is not possible for us to be anywhere, even if it is meaningful to be there. That is also why the Norwegian contribution to Iraq is as modest in the second half of the year as it is, because we have to look into the fact that there are limited numbers of places that we can spend a lot of time. I have, as the Stortinget wants to know, been visiting the Norwegian forces in Iraq, and I am impressed by the job done. There is no doubt that the assumption, that the engineers were going to work on humanitarian issues, is fulfilled. From such a point of view, it would be desirable to continue with them in isolation. But it's not possible with the rollers and the other problems we have. I also want to say that when the disagreement concerns where we are going to put the capacities, it is of course much less dramatic than some representatives have tried to express. We're here for an assessment of where we're going to do our job. In fact, Kristin Halvorsen made an argument, after also quite perceptively joining this capacity argument, that there was also a political signal in it. It is possible that Kristin Halvorsen has more problems sending the political signal to the UN Security Council that we are following up than what I have. I'm not worried about sending that signal to the UN, and I don't think Kristin Halvorsen is as worried as she expressed it. At least I hope not. But what we need to be aware of is that we are now following Resolution 1546, although I must admit that it is in a very modest way. I want to add that when Åslaug Haga gave the impression that Resolution 1546 is almost a new element in the matter, there is well reason to remember two things: one is Thorbjørn Jagland underlined, namely that we have also previously had clear UN foundations for our commitment. It's not that there's just questions about whether it's legitimate. It is clear that stabilising Iraq has been an important political purpose all along. The second is that Resolution 1546 did not come as a surprise either. It is a clear line to the previous UN resolutions, and it is clear that there has been a desire to have a new resolution, and that is what we can do. It was also, as you'd like to know, the government's prerequisite for going into this. So there's no new moment, but if it's adopted, can lead to a new review of this point, I'm even more satisfied with that. Furthermore, the debate on Iraq has not brought about many new positions, except to deal with new facts. I want to mention that I've observed one thing that might not be so positive, and it's that most of the arguments and much of the discussion have essentially gone on what you shouldn't do, and how things could have been different, and that's always very interesting. Not so many have been concerned about what should be done in the future to really help bring Iraq back to an Iraqi democratic regime. That's what the government has focused on. That's why, after we were against the acts of war last year, we quickly came to the conclusion that yes we were and we are, but the situation and challenges now are stabilizing Iraq and bringing it back to the Iraqis. So it's a desire to contribute as positively as we can in the situation, and at that point I have to say that I've got fewer shots from the Storting than I had hoped. In fact, Kristin Halvorsen was in the midst of some such positive estimates, but it was probably largely along the same lines as the Government has thought, among other things. using funds for the reconstruction of the country. So a few points relating to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. One is that I don't think it's right as Kristin Halvorsen did, to perceive my statement as describing two equivalent parties, because I don't. What I'm describing are two parties that both have a responsibility, and that both can do more. If you don't accept it, this is going to be wrong. I've been through so many conversations with both Palestinians and Israelis where they both talk with great experience about what the other party should do, but very little about what they themselves should do. If we don't insist that they both have something they can, should and must do, this will never go well. That's what my post reflects. The other thing I want to say is that I think there's some disagreement between the committee's chairman and me about how this conflict works in the area. I fully agree that it is dominant, and that there will be a contribution of an enormous reach if the conflict could be brought into a positive path and possibly resolved. But I also want to maintain, as I said in my statement, that there are some positive factors that, after all, have come into place despite this conflict. It's positive that Libya has accepted to give up weapons of mass destruction. I will not go into the debate about the military operations in Iraq have been a contribution in this way. It's a controversial question, but at least we have to be glad that Libya has done what they have done. And even if what Iran has done is limited, we also need to be able to rejoice that they are now in dialogue with the IAEA. We must also be able to rejoice that there is an understanding in the Gulf States of the need for democratisation, the market economy and the rule of law, regardless of this. We must also be able to observe that not all Arabs, despite the official rhetoric, have been equally concerned with the Palestine-Israel conflict. On the contrary, there has been a lack of the necessary follow-up to the words that have been said. But it must not be overlooked that I fully agree with Thorbjørn Jagland that it is a contribution of enormous importance if you can move the conflict further, but that is not the only thing that matters. So a few words about the extraction from Gaza. I fully agree that this is a great chance. I have to admit that I see a lot of problems and have a lot of scepticism in me related to this, because there are so many things that need to be in place for things to go well. Norway was very early in clarifying some of the things that need to be done to make this work. I therefore do not disagree with many of the estimates that Thorbjørn Jagland made, and with the practical proposals he made, and refer to the Prime Minister's response in this regard. I think it's a very important contribution to an understanding of what we're going to do now. For my part, I also want to add two things to this. One is that Norway is the head of the donor country group, AHLC. We are now trying to work out a plan for how we can actively contribute through this presidency in this work. It's a role that I've understood that the quartet members think we should have. They agree on all four, and we're going to do this, but it's a very difficult task. The second is that I think we need to emphasize more clearly how important it is to enable the Palestinian self-government authorities to take over and make sure that the extraction does not become a victory for Hamas. This has actually been a major point for me, because the outside world, be it Israelis or others, has not made life easier for the Palestinian self-government authorities in recent years, but neither have they. That's the problem. This is a very weak structure, and here it is important for us to put in a shock to try to do this as well as possible. What has been disastrous in the area that we've been in, has been the images we've seen. But it has also been the handling of the very first phase of the extraction question, where one got the impression that Sharon and Bush agreed on what the final status negotiations should be. Now, luckily, the Americans are back on track on that question again. But the intermediate phase we had was very little luck, to say it carefully. And I'd like to say to Kristin Halvorsen, who collects the U.S.-critical statements from me and doesn't have a large collection, as far as I can tell her, that she has someone she's missed, so I want to draw attention to it. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1362	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1365	I agree that this has been a very calm debate, and when I look at the assembly, I also believe it has a bearing on the fact that it is the last week that Jan Petersen was in the house. Hopefully, this is the last round when it comes to questions about Norwegian contributions to Iraq: I share the opinion that Jan Petersen had here. One might say that this is a historical situation, but as I said earlier today, not everything in history is equally important, and perhaps this is not the most dramatic event in history. It is possible to have two different assessments of the situation without a new background in Norwegian foreign policy. The question of resources is also a question of whether the Norwegian effort is the most important. We in the Labour Party have assessed it so that we will prioritise Norwegian efforts elsewhere, without being able to tell man how this should be. But it's an assessment that we've done, we want a clearer selection elsewhere. I also understand this in the light of the debate that took place in the press over the spring, that the Government also assessed different options for Norwegian contributions, including the option of not being present, at least this was the case. It is possible that there was a tabloidized variant, that the government always meant that one would be left with these officers, but one could also very easily understand it so that a wanted and considered full extraction. My question is, is this a correct understanding of the Government? In that case, it means briefly that there is a different assessment of the specific situation, and that there was a different assessment of the importance of our efforts elsewhere. If it is also right that the Government assessed this openly beyond spring, the downside will be even less.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1378	Since it was Haakon Blankenborg who had the line, it gives me the opportunity to say that at the bottom of my list of things I was going to talk about, was also that I should comment on his comments about the Balkans. I fully agree with the considerations he expressed. It is very important for us not least to draw Serbia-Montenegro closer to the Euroatlantic structures. I think it could be said that Norway has made a contribution in this area. Now it is important that Serbia and Montenegro themselves contribute as much as they can. They know what the problems are. As far as the second point is concerned, of course, it's been completely open how we were going to deal with the second six months. After the talks in Stortinget, we had the power to dispose of Norwegian forces in the first half of the year, and from there, of course, we have assessed all the options and concluded that it would be right to continue with a small contribution. We came back to Stortinget, but it was clear that nothing was tied up until we had talked to Stortinget. We then got the necessary majority to get it done. Then we are back to the fact that this is a discussion of capacities. Our assessment is that there is a small contribution to Iraq, and that means that, in our opinion, it would not have contributed so all the world to the others by leaving this alone. That is why we thought this should go ahead. I fully understand the argument of Blankenborg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1385	It seems like there's a tone of reconciliation and peace in the air. Then we'll try to hold it, but at the same time ask clear questions. I think it's strange if you just turn the question of twelve Norwegian staff officers in Iraq into a question of capacity. It was alarming that Norway, like the one country that had initially opposed the war against Iraq, later set up a military force in Iraq. I see that as a desire for political support. It's read like this everywhere else in the world. It is read by Bush when he takes Norway to the collection of countries that have supported him all the way. I think it's hard to get away from it. I also find it strange that Petersen, when he sees the way Israel is going forward, with the construction of the wall that prevents Palestinians from having incomes, prevents them from visiting the family and just spreading resentment on the Palestinian side, constantly having so much need to talk about both sides. There is one superior power in this area that can accommodate itself in a completely different way from the Palestinians. I think it would have helped very much if that acceptance were at the bottom of the calls you also need to give to the Palestinians in the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1394	Of course, there is a policy in the decision taken by the Government on staff officers to Iraq. It is important that we do not look at Iraq from a sort of seminar point of view and have turned our backs on 2003 and other things, but ask ourselves: what can we now do in practice to bring the situation into a better rental? The government then said that we are responding to the security situation by making this contribution. That's where I have problems with Kristin Halvorsen's commitment. She has so few thoughts about what to do. Kristin Halvorsen focuses on what not to do, what to do last year could have done differently, but little about what to do in the future. I would repeat: politics is not just a seminar on the past. The seminars are not reality. The reality is what you do to influence evolution in the future. That's the core question itself, and I would like to stress that it's important. With regard to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, I just want to say very briefly: when both parties can do something, we have to insist that they also do something. It's going to be all wrong if you sit down again on the seminar with the millimeter and find out who's the biggest, and then you ease all the shooting that way. Then you don't move the situation forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1401	The Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned that some of us are too bad to give concrete ideas about what to do in the future. To come up with the concrete ideas and ideas about what to do, it is unusually important that the analysis is at the bottom. The Foreign Minister had three very interesting lines, the first three, in his foreign policy statement, where he says: "Unfortunately, the security policy situation has not improved since my regular foreign policy presentation in January." It's very interesting, and it would be interesting to get the analysis at the bottom of it, not least because there is now a major international debate on what is really the consequences of the war in Iraq. Has the war in Iraq helped to strengthen security internationally or to weaken security internationally? What has that meant for international terrorism? It is precisely the analysis it would have been exciting to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs come along, the analysis that is necessary for us to understand what the Government is thinking about in terms of operational action in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1416	It's not hard to understand what the government is thinking. We believe that although the contribution is small, we should contribute to stabilising Iraq. We believe that if the UN is to return to Iraq, it is necessary to contribute to security. It's an analysis that I think very many will agree with. If you're going to sum up the entire Iraq operation with the analysis question, it'll take a little more time than the one minute that's at your disposal. But I want to say one thing, since Åslaug Haga mentioned terrorism, that no matter how many analyses you have, we must never let go of the main point: we must not relieve the terrorists of responsibility for their actions. It's a very basic principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1423	A reason why it's important to hold on to the fact that there are two parties to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we now see in connection with the withdrawal from Gaza, which you can get the impression that Sharon will do completely unilaterally without contact with the other party. That's why I've raised these points that I've done in this debate, to focus on the need to negotiate how it's going to happen. In fact, Palestinian authorities have control in Gaza under the Oslo Agreement. Then it's not just to stand out without having been negotiated with the other party about it, about the conditions for it, how to use the homes and the other physical installations, and not least what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said - which does not conflict with my points - what the international community can do financially through the AHLC, and how else we can strengthen the Palestinian authorities in Gaza, that is the other party. I agree that these are not equivalent parties. But there are two parties that have to try to get the best possible equivalence between, because an international agency is behind, as it is. happened in southern Lebanon. I would say that it was a good method you used, and that you should use it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1430	I readily agree with this. I have to say that from the first moment I was worried about the situation that the Palestinian authorities will face when they suddenly get all these problems caught. It is both practical to operate Gaza but also the security issue itself. It was well covered, as far as I remember, by the NRK just after it came up. They asked exactly these questions, and I got the opportunity to say this. I think in many ways it is natural, especially for Norway, to be concerned about the situation of the Palestinian self-government authorities since we head the donor country group for Palestine. But we have to be very aware that these are huge tasks, so it's important that the Quartet - the UN is part of it - really is within the political leadership that they are supposed to have. I am pleased to note that the Quartet, including the United States, is now very clear that these main questions relating to refugees and where the limits of the seventh and last detail will go. There are final status questions and nothing else. No one can decide on behalf of the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1435	I need a little round back to these twelve staff officers who are left in Iraq. Interestingly, the Foreign Minister confirms that this is primarily a political act. You can see that. The twelve are probably doing a good job, but it's hard to say if they make any difference. This means that Norway has a presence, and it is obviously important for the Government. At the same time, it is interesting to see that these twelve have, as the Foreign Minister expressed it, obtained the necessary majority in favour of the Stortinget. But that majority is very crazy. It is the Progress Party and the Government that are united on these twelve and that agreed on this political hand bill to George Bush and those who want to be present in Iraq. What is my challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether he thinks this is satisfactory. Does he not see that it is possible to imagine that in the broad picture - in view of the reconstruction of Iraq and how the world community can contribute to it - it might have been a more important signal to show that nations like Norway, Spain or other major, important nations have a different and much more critical attitude towards what the Americans do and have done?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1444	What Mr Djupedal is asking is whether Norway should have a very critical position on Resolution 1546. We believe that it has been important and correct that the world community has thus come together and defined what the task is now -- and then we do it. I note that Djupedal is stuck in old and other issues than how we are going to help the Iraqis further in what is a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1449	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1452	Let me say a few words about Palestine, too, which many have been involved in this debate. Clearly, in order to understand this conflict between Palestine and Israel, it is right to respect the fact that there are two parties with two different views and two different starting points. Should there be a solution, both parties must of course be respected and heard. But in international international law, there is a difference between an occupying and an occupied people, and this is basically what the United Nations has said about this conflict and how to find a solution to it. An occupied people naturally have a completely different status in international law than the nation that occupies it. We are pleased that Ariel Sharon is now in charge of a withdrawal from Gaza. But I think a lot of people think like me: how many times before have we not heard Israeli prime ministers say that they should withdraw from occupied areas? And how many times have there been no resolutions about this happening - and that never happened? Retirement from Gaza is now a little over a year ahead of time, the next harvest will happen. There are many practical relationships associated with this, which obviously have to be solved, and which make it not possible to imagine a withdrawal neck above head. But at the same time, I think many, even in the international community, have a profound doubt that this will actually happen, especially with the background of what just happened in the refugee camps in Rafa, where we saw the brutal behaviour of the Israeli occupying power towards ordinary Palestinians and their homes -- with many killed, many razed homes, which naturally escalated the conflict even more. While we hear Israel say that they have a declaration of will to withdraw from Gaza within a year or a little bit longer, the occupation of the West Bank and the construction of the wall takes place just as before. This wall has been condemned internationally and by the UN several times. Of course, it is every nation free to build walls within its own country. That's not very wise, but you can do that, there's no prohibition in international law on building a wall. But international law is crystal clear that you can't build a wall on another man's earth. That is why the UN has so clearly said this. This wall built to build Palestinian villages, to prevent ordinary Palestinian activity and to prevent families from meeting each other, only creates hatred and no future for Palestinian youth. This is perhaps the most striking thing in this conflict: on the one hand, you can see that there are some positive moves - and you have to take care of the positive things that may exist, for example. that you might get a withdrawal from Gaza at some point. But then one sees that Palestinian youth and Palestinian families experience continuous, daily, harassment and repression. They simply feel that their whole life is being ruined, among other things. by a wall built in the middle of their own country. Out of this there comes nothing but hatred and disbelief. There are some people who are big enough to try to reach out a hand, but what's happening is that you just escalate new terror and new hatred between peoples. I'm not sure what the international community can do to bring this conflict to an end, and how to get ahead. The UN has a number of times crystal-clearly said what you want. From the Norwegian side, you've said that a number of times. The international community has said that a number of times. But as long as the State of Israel rests heavily on large American contributions, and American politicians, both Democrats and Republicans, want unilateral support for Israel, it is difficult to see how to get a solution. The paradox is that the Democrats in America are almost even more - let's say - Israel-friendly than the Republicans, so that means that any change of president in the next harvest of the United States will not necessarily contribute in a positive direction. Nevertheless, we must believe that there is hope, and not least hope must lie in the fact that the ordinary Israeli and the ordinary Palestinians say at any other time that now is enough. There must be a peaceful way out, and this peaceful way out must, of course, be in Palestine and in Israel. From the Norwegian side, I do not know what we can do, but it could be interesting once again to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether he sees that there is a role Norway can play. Norway has played a role. This role is parked, it might be over, but it's possible to imagine it can be re-recorded. Norway has an active, positive role to play in peace trafficking in many parts of the world. This role is a good one for Norway, and this role we want Norway to have. This means that there may be a role Norway can play as a small country in relation to peace and peace mediation and human rights in the world community. And if there is, the Foreign Minister knows well that then he will have the Great Britain's warm support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1470	It is well that the role that Norway played ten years ago was quite special, and since it belonged to a different political grouping than mine, I would like to say that I think that role was played with great skill. Although there has been a lot of criticism of it in retrospect, I think it was done as well as possible on the basis of the assumptions that were then present. Now it is the so-called Quartet that has taken over the political leadership - the United Nations, the United States, the EU and Russia - so that our role must naturally be different. But I think that in many ways we play an important role as chairman of the donor country group for Palestine, and that is a work that is trusted by both parties. But I want to say that if you think that Norway is going to play a role along the lines you play in other parts of the world, there are some basic assumptions that need to be in place. One of the basic assumptions is that regardless of what you think about the parties, you have confidence from them and access to them. So if Djupedal thinks we're going to play a role by just going between, he should, for example, be. provide the contribution that he here and now draws the proposal SV has made on boycott. It would directly counteract everything else, it would be a pure protest role, but it's clear that choosing roles means giving up that kind of instruments. I think that would be wise, and I see in many ways a little promise in what Djupedal now said.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1479	I also think it is necessary to say a little about this in the light of the proposal that has been put forward. I believe one important role Norway can have is now to point out the need for no more - what we should say - double policy or double standards in this area by the Western countries, as we have had. For example, we went to war with Iraq 12 years ago because Iraq had occupied Kuwait. But it is necessary to point out that the occupation taking place in the Palestinian territories must now be brought to an end. We want - and it is incredibly important - Iran to stop its nuclear programme if it exists. But the only state in the area that has nuclear weapons is Israel. The reason for going to war in Iraq for the second time was that there were weapons of mass destruction there, but the only country that has such weapons in the area is Israel. So, within a Middle East peace settlement, you could say that there was a nuclear-free zone where everyone gave up their weapons of mass destruction -- another example of getting rid of the double standards that we've had. And then we come up with the question of boycott. If you were to start boycotting Israel, you really have to boycott a lot of countries in the area. What should we do with Iran, such as This expansion is in contact with, with which the Government is in contact, with which we also have trade policy relations - should we continue to do so? Or should we just boycott Israel? Iran is, after all, the country that to date has not recognised the right of the State of Israel to exist, but which has as official policy the eradication of the State of Israel, in conflict, blatant conflict, with international law, because the State of Israel is established by the United Nations. What should we do with Saudi Arabia? I believe that the best contribution Norway can have now is to have a consistent policy - not a policy for Israel and a completely different policy for the Arab countries, not a policy for the Arab countries and a completely different policy for Israel, which I think it has been a major problem in the Middle East that we have had. Therefore, it is not necessary to establish new double standards on the part of Western countries, but to try to create peace based on equal standards, equal rights, equal obligations for all throughout the region. When you talk about Norway's role, there are people who dream that the situation we had in 1993 will come back. Then you had a need for a secret channel. Today there is no need for a secret channel, today there is a need for the reverse - full public debate, negotiations within the UN framework. And then this withdrawal from Gaza gives you a chance, even though it's obviously a danger that it can be used for the permanent occupation or annexation of the West Bank, I understand that very well, and it was the Foreign Minister who actually also said that it can end up like this. But the reverse might also happen, that this retreat starts a new dynamics, that the ball is in play, and we now have to try to get it forward on the track, so that this withdrawal is the first step towards a retreat from all the occupied areas, negotiated between the parties. Therefore, I think it is very important that Norway now has some very clear principles and attitudes about how this withdrawal should be done, so that this ball can be held in play, that a new dynamic can be started. Therefore, I also fully agree that the role Norway can now play is this - do the work we have had within the AHLC, and point out the need for a strong internationalisation of this conflict, among other things. of the situation in Gaza. There was a bit of an unfortunate situation in the withdrawal from South Lebanon, because what you did there was actually negotiating with Hezbollah, who got a tough victory. What you have the chance to do now in Gaza is to give a victory to the moderate Palestinian authorities, instead of winning Hamas, and then you have to negotiate with the Palestinian authorities about this, and I think it is very important that Norway points out the need for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1488	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1492	Just a few brief comments at the end of the debate. I'm sorry that I handed out such a propitiatory hand to the Minister for Foreign Affairs at an early stage, because I have to say that I'm very sorry that what goes like very important, significant debates on international policy in all countries of the world, about, a little contemptible is called "seminars" in the Norwegian Greatness. I think that's actually a bigger problem for the Foreign Minister than it is for us. Clearly, we have to learn from the close story. Here the United States has gone to a war that increases the risk of terror, not the opposite, and it's hard to see what path to go into, how to build democracy in Iraq after many years of dictatorship, with great misunderstandings - in population size - between Sunni and Shia Muslims, with an occupying power present that is quite hated in large environments. It's pretty hard. But in any case, we know that one must have a clear anchor in the United Nations, and that there must be legitimacy in relation to the new regime that will be there, and of the speakers who have spoken today, I am the most concrete in relation to the poles that have been in place. - That's it. So the question of what role Norway can play in relation to the conflict between Israel and Palestine. I think it's right that we don't have the role that we had ten years ago in relation to the back channel, or that Norway can have an independent role here. But there is great frustration among the Palestinians - and also among the Arabs and Muslims in many countries and among all of us who have been working towards solidarity with the Palestinians for a long time - that a state of such contempt can break international law once and for all without any consequences. A discussion of this must be on the road in international society, and that is the background to the proposal put forward today. And then I'm a little bit searching to try to understand what Igland means when he talks about double standards. It is, as far as I know, no parallel to draw to Iran in terms of the occupation of another country, or to Saudi Arabia in relation to the occupation of another country. Well these are dictatorships, well this is the country that violates human rights, but there are slightly different kinds of issues. Now I also believe that the summary of penalties and boycott rates, for example. in relation to Iraq, it shows that they acted against their purpose, so it is important to make this very smart. But at the same time, we are facing Israel, which, after all, is an enlightened democracy, with an enlightened population, and it is clear that if the international community were far more powerful than before behind the resolutions adopted by the United Nations, it would be possible to go into the situation differently than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1501	Of course, there is no comparison between Israel and Iran, in the sense that Iran does not occupy another country. But Iran, as I said, has not yet accepted the State of Israel, and as an official policy - I have asked the Secretary of State about it myself, because I really didn't think it was true, but he said it right out to me - to destroy the State of Israel, and they are financing the Hizbollah guerrilla for that purpose. It's an equally blatant violation of international law to attack civilians, as this guerrilla does. It's not the same crime, but it's a blatant violation of international law to attack civilians, no matter who's being attacked. It is difficult to apply boycott in such a situation, although I also fully agree that the policy that Sharon has pursued is unacceptable. But it must not lead us into the misguided use of instruments under the auspices of the international community, which receive estimates of double standards and double standards. Saudi Arabia is in exactly the same situation. To date, they do not recognise the right of the State of Israel to exist. The UN has, among other things: pointed out the need for it to be incredibly favourable if the entire Arab world recognised the State of Israel - they have been close to the question, but have not yet come to that point. So to another thing that Kristin Halvorsen also brought up. For my part, I have lost faith in the use of boycott, especially after what happened in Iraq. Then the criticism of the sanctions was very hard, and as Minister of Foreign Affairs I worked to get rid of them. But we can't have that attitude one year, and when there's a new situation, we raise the question of boycott again, which we know could have exactly the same implications, not just for Israel, but for the whole area, and for the Palestinian people who are totally dependent on the Israeli economy. I think we have to go forward in another way, in an area that is affected by such a big conflict, with so many contradictions and so many sides. But I would again like to stress that the policy that Sharon, in particular, has pursued is unacceptable. It has to be stopped. The international community needs to do everything it can to get it done, and Norway needs to have very clear views on what is going to happen now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1512	I'm not going to back out on what I've said about the SV's approach to the Iraq issue at all. I have very great experience as a target for Kristin Halvorsen, and know exactly how she shoots, and what questions she is concerned about. And it's not about what we're doing in Iraq now, which has been my opinion. I have full respect for the fact that Kristin Halvorsen wants to put the light on other questions, but I wish that in the political debate she had had something more respect also for my way of approaching these questions. She rarely does. She usually tends to come up with quite ram-salted characteristics related to the ability to say things clearly and clearly, of which she is always very concerned. But it has a little bit to do with which agenda we're going to set. I wish that Kristin Halvorsen had something more respect for another way of approaching this than what she's had. - It was good to be told. The second is the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I see that you can follow the line that Kristin Halvorsen adds up to, but you can also follow the line that Øystein Djupedal adds up to, and I don't think there's anything wrong in that Øystein Djupedal and Kristin Halvorsen travel two different questions. My point was just that it has huge implications which of the lines you pick. So you can ask yourself, how can you help bring about the conflicts in the future? Then my perception is that I think it is still important to play a role as a dialogue partner, but that also means that you have to deal with the situation so that you are in that role. The third thing I want to say is that I think Thorbjørn Jagland is raising a very important debate when he asks questions about whether boycott is suitable as a political instrument. It's all too often something you do because you think you have to do something. There has been no analysis of whether it really leads to what you want, and many poor people around the world have had to pay the price of political symbolism. That is why, from time to time, I think we need to think very carefully about this as a political instrument, and I think it is a very important debate that has been raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1523	Kristin Halvorsen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1526	Just a brief comment before I wish the Foreign Minister and the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee a good summer. I think the discussion about how you can put more power behind the requirements in relation to Israel is very important to take, but maybe we should start in a little more calm form than this. Then the Foreign Minister has to face up to the challenges of what will be the Norwegian attitude and Norwegian tone in relation to the United States. We are in a situation where one sovereign superpower has taken care of itself in the conflict of international law, and then we have to have a clear speech. So I promise that after the summer vacation I will continue with equally clear challenges to the Foreign Minister on that issue. So far, I want a good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1533	On behalf of those of us who at this stage cannot take a summer vacation, I have to say that it is essential that we move the conflict forward and make contributions, so I can promise Kristin Halvorsen that when she comes back after the summer vacation, she will still get the question: What does Kristin Halvorsen intend to do? So far, it's unanswered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1538	The President also perceived this as a wish for good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1541	I don't want to in any way problematize the desire for good summer, but there are two things I feel need to underline because of the course of the debate. One is that you have to look in your eyes that it is not possible to do two things at the same time that exclude each other. You can't add up to one-sided boycotting and at the same time want to play a role that presupposes you're talking with both sides in a conflict. That's not possible. You have to decide for one of the two lines. Since there have been some allegations in the debate that could be understood as if the problem of Iraq arose during the war last year, there may well be reason to recall that the problem has a somewhat longer history, that the suffering of the Iraqi people did not start with the war, and that the security problems associated with Iraq did not start with the war either. If you pull the historical memory as far as 20 years back in time, until the 1980s, there might be reason to remember that when Saddam Hussein did not get to pin himself as unhindered as he had ambitions about, it is because the then Israeli Prime Minister Begin took the burden on the entire international community of destroying the nuclear plant that was then almost finished in Iraq and that would have been able to produce nuclear weapons. It actually belongs to the historical memory as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1548	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3414]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1563	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetition of the individual statements. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1570	I am pleased that the Stortinget found room in a busy spring session to deal with this matter now. It gives the Storting the opportunity to give signals to the Government prior to the next General Assembly held in the UN, now to the autumn. The communication provides, in the Committee's view, a good review of the general meeting and the topics discussed there. The attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee shows that there is broad agreement on many of the issues related to Norway’s participation in the General Assembly and on the issues raised there. The Committee refers to the launch of the Globalisation Communication, discussed in the European Parliament in March this year. The Committee then stated that the inability of individual nations to influence globalisation is a democratic challenge. It is therefore necessary for global institutions which are democratic, representative, open, coordinating and effective, in order to renew democracy. In this picture, the United Nations is at the heart of the process of reform in the United Nations and needs to be seen in the light of the challenges. The Committee is therefore pleased that the important work of the High Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Changes initiated by the Secretary-General last year is now under way. The Committee stresses that the threat picture today is marked by old threats in new and dangerous links such as terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, but also by "soft" threats in the economic and social sphere. A unanimous committee is concerned that, after ten years of work for the Working Party on Security Council Reform, there is still no evidence of consensus. Like Secretary-General Annan, the Committee believes that it is now urgent to find a solution if the Security Council's decisions are to be met with greater respect, not least in developing countries. We now see in the WTO that developing countries are acting more collectively and with greater weight in the important Doha negotiations. For example, countries such as Brazil, South Africa and India are increasingly coordinating their international interests. In the long run, it will hardly be possible to ignore entire continents and new economic powers as fully involved in the decisions of the United Nations. The majority of the Committee also notes that reform of the UN system at country level is of great importance in order to provide more effective multilateral assistance. The main objective must be to contribute to increased national ownership of the recipient countries’ own development processes. Since the Government of the message clearly states that they believe that all the forces must be put in place for the next General Assembly to adopt a decision giving mandate to start negotiations on a Convention on the Prohibition of Cloning of Human Beings, the Labour Party and the Progress Party wanted to re-examine our views on the issue of therapeutic cloning. Like the Government, the Workers' Party is against the cloning of people, and we are facing a ban. However, we and the Progress Party point out that therapeutic cloning has other dimensions that can have a significant impact on the development of medicine, and already research in this area gives great hope of curing diseases that cause great suffering to humans. In multilateral forums, cooperation between countries is often the key to achieving good and stable global solutions. Cooperation is also necessary, especially for a small country such as Norway, in order for us to have an impact on our point of view. This is of course why EU countries are increasingly coordinating their views in the UN. The majority point out that Norway cooperates well with the EU and that Norway relatively often joins the EU joint intervention on a case-by-case basis. The majority think this is positive. The EU has a strong negotiating weight in many cases, and the majority take note of the Government’s view that this gives countries such as Norway new challenges. For my part, I would like to add that within the EU, Norway would be able to influence the positions of one of the main actors in the general meeting. To the extent that Norway was able to provide heavy points of view and strong actors in individual cases, Norway’s view could actually lead one of the most serious actors in the United Nations system. In the case of disarmament issues, SV has its own note referring to two resolutions in which Norway abstained. We do not disagree with SV's view, and last autumn an interpellation was actually raised in the Stortinget to the Foreign Minister from the representative Marit Nybakk, who addressed this very question. However, we will be careful about what Norway is going to vote next time, as it is situation-determined. We believe it is important to keep focussed on the work on disarmament issues and non-proliferation, and we will continue to raise these questions. In that interpellation, the Foreign Minister concluded his speech by saying, "The goal is clear: a world free of nuclear weapons." We fully support this, and the Workers' Party expects our views, promoted in this interpellation, to be included by the Government in the next General Assembly and in the work towards the Conference of Supervisors next year. Finally, I will allow myself to pay tribute to the Minister for the Environment, Børge Burnde. On 8 June, the evening post announced that the Minister for the Environment has proposed to strengthen UNEP and establish an international environmental court. According to the statement, the Minister for the Environment is taking action to make UNEP a new "Environmental Organisation of the World". This is fully in line with what the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs spoke about when dealing with the globalisation communication. The majority show that there is a broad consensus that the UN Environment Programme, the UNEP Authority and the financial situation need to be strengthened and that it is positive that the Government will work to this end. The majority believe that it is necessary in the longer term to consider developing the UN Environment Programme towards the establishment of a World Environment Organisation, as Norway has been working for. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for the Environment here is following up this. The experience of trade is that WTO cooperation has shown us the importance of having legislation to protect against discrimination and a dispute resolution mechanism to ensure compliance. The alternative is the strongest one right. I am pleased that Norway is now proposing that mechanisms for implementing international agreements and breaking down the same agreements should also be established in the field of the environment. The environmental challenges we are facing today are, to a very large extent, challenges where we depend on everyone being able to pull the load if we are to make changes. It is therefore essential to have institutions capable of ensuring compliance with the conventions adopted in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1607	One of the key issues in the general debate at the 58th General Assembly of the United Nations was the follow-up to the 2002 United Nations Conference on Financing for Development in Mexico. The conference gave a lot of praise to Norway for the economic effort and for being among the five largest donor countries. Since then, we've come in first place. The goal of donor countries was to reach 0.7 pst. of gross domestic product, while Norway’s objective is to reach 1 pst. For Norway, it should not be an objective to give the most, but that the funds allocated benefit the needy and do not disappear in bureaucracy, administration and corruption. There is also a need to put a spotlight on the many voluntary organisations that receive funds from the state fund, whether they manage the money properly, and whether the money goes for the purpose for which they were intended. Perhaps the funds could have been allocated to fewer organisations, so that more needed could benefit? Another theme of the General Assembly was a draft by Costa Rica and the United States of America on a resolution that would give a mandate to start negotiations on a convention with a total ban on human cloning, to which Norway also joined. Another group of countries, led by Belgium, presented a competing resolution that allowed for a derogation for therapeutic cloning. The result was a one-year postponement. As mentioned earlier, the Labour Party and the Progress Party refer to their common comments in today's position, where we point out that therapeutic cloning has other dimensions that may have a significant impact on the development of medicine and that are already giving research in this area great hopes for the recovery of diseases. We also refer to comments from the Labour Party and the Progress Party in Innst. O. No 25 for 2002-2003 and in Innst. S. No 238 from 2001 to 2002 on the same theme. The 58th ordinary UN General Assembly showed that there is a heavy-headed organisation that needs reforms, especially in the case of ever-changing threat images that require rapid decision-making. The war in Iraq is a good example, where the UN's miscarriage resulted in the United States losing patience and taking action with England. With regard to the reform of the Security Council, progress was also not made this time in the General Assembly’s Working Party on Security Council Reform. The working group met for the tenth consecutive year without traceable any kind of consensus or outline of a possible compromise. Given that one of the key tasks of the UN is to prevent conflicts, it is alarming that it has been very difficult to achieve sufficient consensus on the role and task of the UN in such a context. Two recurring problems are that many developing countries see conflict resolution as interference in internal conditions, while fearing that focusing on this will steal attention and finance from UN development activities. For Norway, however, it is important to be in a community based on the United Nations, NATO and the United States, in order to secure Norway’s security at home and away, now that we live in the world we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1624	The 58th General Assembly opened with a rampart of violence and terror in Iraq. One month before the opening of the General Assembly, the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad were bombed. 21 were killed, and over 100 were injured. Among the killed were the UN Special Mission in Iraq, Sergio de Mello. The incident shed a gruesome light on a UN that was heavily divided in its attitude to the war in Iraq. Secretary-General Kofi Annan addressed the organisation's challenges in his opening speech on the first day of the general meeting. He pointed out that the United Nations had come to a crossroads. He pointed to the need for far-reaching reforms. And during the session, the general meeting succeeded in agreeing on several changes from the reform plan to the Secretary-General. That's what SV thinks is very good. But reality is far from as positive as the adopted changes can give the impression. Many countries, especially small and poor countries, are concerned about what the reform programme will have to say about their influence over UN work, not least in the area of development policy. We must take those concerns seriously. The UN Security Council must be reformed. Changes are necessary since the representation in the Security Council is neither democratic nor representative of the global conditions of power today. Reform must ensure that all regions are represented in the Security Council. We need global institutions that are democratic, that are representative, that are open, that are coordinating, that are effective. Therefore, SV believes that ambitious reform work within the UN should lead to the establishment of the UN Economic and Social Security Council. Such advice should be added to the ordinary Security Council and should replace both the G8 and the UN Social and Economic Councils. The IMF and the World Bank must be subordinate to the decisions of such an Economic and Social Security Council. International terrorism was a theme of the 58th General Assembly and will continue to be on the United Nations agenda. In this respect, there are two areas I would like to touch on. Firstly, it is necessary to understand and express that terrorism is not a uniform phenomenon. Terrorism has the common feature that it is an extreme, violent and unacceptable instrument, but the terrorists do not have the same objectives. It must be recognised in the fight against terrorism. Secondly, it is necessary to make it more difficult for terrorists to obtain the means to commit terrorism. Not least, we must prevent terrorist groups with sufficient cynicism from generating so-called dirty bombs, where explosives are combined with radioactive waste. Non-proliferation must therefore be given high priority, and this must also be done to bring about disarmament and the abolition of nuclear weapons in our own alliance and in the other nuclear powers. In the discussion of nuclear disarmament in the General Assembly, two resolutions were promoted in which Norway abstained. The two resolutions focused on the precisely Non-Proliferation Agreement as well as rocket defence and tactical nuclear weapons. Norway voted in favour of the Japanese-Australian resolution on nuclear weapons, but not for the other two. "Situationally," said the first speaker. In the fight against nuclear weapons, it's in place to be principled. I can see no reason why Norway should not have voted in favour of all three resolutions. It would have been in line with Norwegian policy in this area. I therefore hope that Norway will not abstain from voting for similar resolutions in the UN General Assembly on later occasions. I am familiar with the discussions that took place around the wording of the resolutions, and I wish to congratulate you on any future discussions. To-day I am a Norwegian teacher, and the degree bending of adjectives is important, but I am also a social teacher, and next year my 10th graders are going to learn about the Non-Proliferation Agreement. If I have to drop one of those two hours, I'm probably going to drop the hour of adjective deflector bending, because the Non-proliferation Agreement is most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1654	The war in Iraq has put the UN to serious trials, and the UN has been through a very difficult political period. The United States believed that the United Nations Member State made the UN irrelevant by not following the Americans and giving mandate to the war in Iraq. The UN headquarters in Baghdad was seriously attacked in August 2003 and several key UN staff were killed. Now, however, we see that the occupying powers in Iraq have recognised that they need the UN to help solve the crowd they have taken. They have asked their knees for the legitimacy and competence of the UN to be used in the further handling of Iraq. We have again been proved that the UN is necessary and relevant. The organisation has many weaknesses, but the UN never becomes anything other than what the member countries make the organisation. After recent trials, it is more important than ever that Norway wholeheartedly support the UN and the UN Secretary-General. The Committee's suspension underlines the need for reform of the UN and places considerable emphasis on reform of the Security Council. Yes, reform of the Security Council is important and necessary for the Security Council's decisions to be met with maximum respect, and we shall not give up that work. At the same time, as we know, this must not be a shadow for other important reform work in the organisation. There is progress in the reform process in the field of development, but it is slow. In order to improve the effectiveness of UN assistance activities, the various UN organisations need to act more coherently at country level, under a single management. We see steps in the right direction, but Norway, as one of the biggest contributors in the field of development, must be a driving force in this work. We cannot allow loss of power as a result of a lack of cooperation between different UN organisations. Without uniform management and close coordination, the UN will lose momentum, and the recipient countries will need to use unnecessary administrative resources, which are often a scarcity factor. The centre party is concerned that not only do UN development organisations have to act in a uniform manner at country level, but UN policy activities must also be part of the unified management. It is a significant weakness of the UN as a system that the bulkheads between political work and development work are far too dense. Norway must contribute to closer links between development and policy. It is often said that the fight against terrorism cannot be won by military means alone, and that political, economic and environmental issues need to be seen in the context. And that's usually right. It has been repeated in this hall many times today. The problem is that we are far too rarely able to do just that in practice. Institutional barriers must not further complicate already complex contexts. Therefore, more attention is needed on the need to bring down far too marked a distinction between policies on the one hand and developments on the other. Closer integration of the UN work could be a small step on the road. The centre party is pleased that the entire committee wants to pay greater attention to the UN conflict prevention work. This is a challenge for the Government. During Gro Harlem Brundtland's time as Prime Minister, a fund for preventive diplomacy was set up, attached to the Secretary-General. The idea behind the fund was right: more of the UN's work and resources must be directed towards crisis prevention. The time is more than ripe to evaluate why this work has not received greater attention in the UN, and initiatives need to be taken to further develop the organisation's work in this field. In this setting, as in most other positions in the field of foreign policy, many parties are susponsive that we are not EU members. We may disagree as to whether Norway should be an EU member or not, but I am surprised that, in all respects, Norway should be concerned with the challenges of not being an EU member, and that it is never possible to look at the opportunities it provides for Norway to have a maritime voice in foreign policy. It is striking that there is no reference to the limitations of EU coordination, and not least to the limitations that will exist when the EU's new constitution will be passed after all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1680	I drew myself late in order to catch up with the challenges that had to come, and just have to notice that there has been no one in this round. It does well indicate that there is broad agreement on our policies in this area. Whenever I take the floor, it is just to underline the very important thing that is now happening in the group of prominent people who are looking at the particular challenge facing the United Nations. The initiative taken by the Secretary-General at the opening of the harvest session last year was very timely. Many have probably assumed that this work should be completed now, so that it can affect the next general meeting. It won't happen. It will come later in the autumn. However, I think it is clear that the debate itself is going to shape the main assembly. It is very important that not only is there a expectation that there will now be a major debate on the Security Council, but that the debate is precisely linked to how the UN's role in the world society will be shaped in the future, and also to all the other valuable reforms that are taking place. The most difficult of all is the Security Council, and it is important that you manage to move the agenda forward without being frustrated that the most difficult thing is perhaps difficult to move.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1689	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3414]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1697	We are then ready to vote on the matter no. 2-5 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1754	Before we go to voting on case No. 3, the President will point out that the Committee's position has not been beyond the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget vote on this matter now. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1769	It is the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party that are behind the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1800	The President proposes that the foreign policy statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs be annexed to the minutes of the Grand Duchy meeting on 14 June 2004. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1828	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1836	I just want to say, for the sake of order, that in case no. 3 had the Center Party announced that they would support Roman I. It wasn't said, so maybe we could take it up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1843	There's nothing wrong with the President taking it up again, even though it's obvious from the number of votes cast that the Central Party voted in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1846	Then it's okay!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-16.ana.ud568e1853	No more people have asked for the word.
