ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e28	Representatives André Kvakkestad and Julie Christiansen, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. From the delegation of the European Parliament to the 110th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Mexico City, there is a request for a permit signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr. Karin Andersen. The application concerns a period of leave from 21 April to 23 April for the representatives of Karin Andersen, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Ola T. Lånke, Thore A. Nistad and Finn Martin Vallersnes. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave:For Hedmark County: Helge BjørnsenFor Uppland County: Morten Ørsal JohansenFor Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad and Change SjørestadFor South Trondelag County: Tora Husan3. Morten Ørsal Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e84	Morten Ørsal Johansen, Inger Lise Aarrestad, Endre Sørestad and Tora Husan are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e89	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e94	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e99	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e122	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Odd Einar Dørum State Council Kristin Clement State Council Ansgar Gabrielsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Rolf Rekvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e141	I have a question for the Minister of Education. In the newspaper the other day, there was a big suggestion that the secondary schools lacked 5 000 places to study. In other words, the county councils have not established enough educational places for our high school students. This development is due to two things. This is due, inter alia, to: the selection of a number of professionals, and that is where the deficiency occurs. So there's a great transition from general to professional. The second is that there aren't enough spaces combined. My question goes to the Council of State: Is this a challenge that is not just the responsibility of the county council, but something that the Minister of Education is also taking on board? When the Storting dealt with the resource situation some time ago, we saw that this situation could arise, and we asked the Ministry to be obsessive about this and go in and see if the income system caught up with the evolution we have, which means that there are more in the 16-18 age group. My question is: will the Council of State come back to this in the revised, as the Storting asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e154	The representative Reikvam points here to a real challenge. We know that we're getting a big student growth in secondary education in the years that are coming. We also know that this challenge does not spread equally across the country. Some states are facing greater challenges than others. However, it is too early to draw any conclusions on what states will possibly face the challenges and problems of meeting that pupils’ growth, in the light of the statement in the newspaper. The challenges outlined in Dagbladet do not differ significantly from the challenges referred to at the same time in the second year, so we have to wait for something. But it's clear that this is something that the government also has an eye for. It must be reflected in the local economy, and it is clear that it is also a challenge in relation to the counties to establish different types of offers, even in relation to the extent possible, to give students the opportunity to take on what is their first choice. Of course, then, it also indicates that higher education offers vary in terms of costs, and this is a further complication. But we have mentioned this in documents for Stortinget, and it will be mentioned in future documents where appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e161	I thank you for your answer. I'm a little surprised that this is something we're going to wait for, because we've known that this situation would come, and this is a situation that we've wanted. We want more students to choose a professional course. We want us to get a twist away from general to professional, because this is something that business and employment need. Then it's very important that we are now on the verge of making sure that the students who want this education get this opportunity, and that we don't turn them over to other people's desires, that is. pushes them back into the general course of study, because it might be cheaper. We also know which states are particularly affected. It's the growth groups, the counties around our larger cities. It is very important that the Council of State is now on hold and not waiting, but intervenes and is very clear in relation to the revision. If there's a need to add extra resources so that these places can be created, we have to put it in place. This is, as I said, a development that has been a broad political consensus that we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e170	As I said before, in the context of the definition of the local economy, in the context of the State budget, in the context of the documents of the Education Committee on the resource situation in school and, of course, in the context of the revised national budget, the Government will also be concerned with the pupils' growth, whether in primary or secondary education, in the years to come, and in particular with regard to secondary education. We have been, and we will be. But there is no reason to intervene today, regardless of these documents, as a result of a look-up in the newspaper, because the exact picture that was drawn there does not differ significantly from what was drawn at the same time in the second year. It is too early to draw the bastant conclusions on the basis of a headline in the newspaper. I also do not think that the representative Rikvam believes that it should be intervened via a spontaneous questioning session based on a statement in Dagbladet – after all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e177	There will be three follow-up questions – first Lena Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e180	5,000 new students are a large number of high school students from the fall. In an answer to the question from the signatory about a drop-out in high school in a Question Time, the Council of State said that she believes it is worrying that only 63 pst. by students completing secondary school at normal time, while over 20 pst. not completed in five years. The educational centre has conducted a survey of students who have discontinued their schooling. There are three points that stand out in the answers. The first is that the students were out of school, the second — which is important — was that they did not get into their first choice, and that they had made wrong choices. From the fall more students than before will probably not get into their first choice, and I think that's very worrying. Is the Council of State concerned about what seems to happen, that more students do not get into their first choice, and does the Council of State think that the motivation to complete higher education is related to being able to get into their first choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e189	It is the case in Norway that very many students come to their first choice. It is too early to draw conclusions on whether fewer pupils will be able to meet their first wish for the harvest. Then we have to know the search pattern better, and we have to know the numbers better, as I just have the black representative Rikvam. But in general, as the representative Jensen here also says, only 60-70 pst. by students in Norwegian school have gained professional or study competence five years after they began. Some of this non-response is completely unproblematic and perhaps even good, but some of the non-response is unfortunate. There are no good reasons or good explanations behind that. We also know that those who do not complete secondary education have a greater tendency to be excluded from the labour market, a greater tendency to become unemployed and not enter the labour market again. But this affects a much more structural problem in relation to our education system than exactly the economy. I will then refer to the message I have submitted, where we are trying to simplify the supply structure of higher education, to create broader education programmes, so that it is easier to re-select within the programmes, etc. This will ensure that more students will be able to meet their first wish near where they live. It'll probably lead to more motivation and less apostasy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e199	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e202	A good tool to ensure better dimensioning and greater user involvement and influence is to do something about funding, simply to raise the economy and dimensioning out of the local government and out of the county halls and let the state pay school money for students directly. Neither in the resource message previously addressed by the Stortinget nor in the new growth message that has just been presented, is there any particular willingness from this government and from this council to look at the financing issue itself – to move the funding from the two subordinates directly to the state. Will the Council of State look at the funding mechanism and ensure that there is a funding mechanism in which the state pays school fees for the students, so that users can be more involved and manage the dimensioning and content of the education?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e211	There is no lack of willingness to look at the funding systems – I have looked at them quite a lot, studied quite a lot and investigated quite a lot, but I simply disagree with the Progress Party! I believe that the schools should be financed in a general way, and that responsibility for schools – those who are school owners and responsible for school development and quality development, etc. - It should be local. I do not think it would be a good thing that a department in Oslo should be responsible for almost 4,000 schools in Norway, ranging in size from two students to 2,000 students. I don't think that would be appropriate. Among other things, I think it is very important that the financial responsibility is linked to the other responsibility, otherwise there will be a different weight and asymmetry in this which is not lucky and which will lead to the powdering of responsibilities and the transport of responsibilities. – So the result that I have looked at the funding systems and investigated them is simply that I have come to the conclusion that the schools should essentially be framework-funded and left to local self-government and local democracy. I therefore have a different position from that of Mr Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e220	Vidar Bjørnstad - till last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e223	I can confirm the need for more places of study in higher education and that it is divided differently across the country. Akershus e.g. needs 1000 new places in the next four years. It is obvious that the income system does not take that into account. Now, state councillor Clement is not known for being concerned about the resource situation in school, so it is possible that government councillor Solberg is a better address. I have a question related to this with several places in higher education, and it concerns the formal right of adults to initial education. We know that many adults are also in line for secondary education, but in today's situation with a lack of finances, the county councils naturally prioritise the youth groups. I ask whether the Council of State is aware of this and is willing to take this into account in the assessment of funding to ensure both that there are places in secondary education for young people and that adults are satisfied with their formal right to initial education?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e232	Let me just say about the income system: it is clear that it should capture such developments as: strong pupils growth. No one should claim that the income system is perfect at all times, that it cannot be adjusted or improved. I expect that you can have profound discussions with the local government minister about that. In the case of adults with a right to secondary education, we do not have a full picture of what the situation is, how much the demand is and how large the queues may be. But what I've told you here in the Chamber before is that we've launched a survey project to find out if there's a lot of adults in line, and what's possibly the reason they're in line, and how long they're standing there. Because it's clear that the adults who are right should of course also be able to retrieve that right within a reasonable time. It is also mentioned in the recent communication on quality in initial training.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e239	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e242	The race in Stavanger and the killing of a policeman have shaken us all. The cruel act shows that we are getting a more brutal criminal environment in Norway as well. In the wake of this case, there is a discussion about the need for more police surveillance and more weapons. The Labour Party believes that this is an important debate that we must take. But we don't think it's useful to give the police access to more surveillance and more weapons if the basic methods for fighting crime are not working well enough. The risk of detection of many criminal acts is low. Criminal cases take too long before the criminal gets his judgment, and the restitution queues have only gone longer and longer. If we are to succeed in combating brutal and even less serious criminal acts, this must work much better than it does today. My question is, When will the Council of State start introducing measures to reduce cows for housing and not just stagnant growth? And when will he come up with measures that will give us a faster criminal procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e253	It was a good day to get questions about the pay queue on, because it has per. March 31, decreased by approx. 240, from approx. 2 600 to approx. Two hundred and three hundred and three hundred and fifty in line. There's a decline, and that means that the measures we've taken are starting to work. When it comes to dealing with criminal proceedings, important steps have been taken. The Ministry will already have a meeting on Friday, based on the excellent report from Langbach and Groseth, which shows how far we can get by putting more effort into a judicial trial rather than a party-led criminal trial, and which goes a lot on the culture of cooperation of judges, prosecutors, lawyers and other actors in the criminal chain. But I would like to go back to what was the main entrance to the representative, which is what happened in Stavanger. I think there's reason to take inward that what happened in Stavanger was similar to a regular military command line. There is also reason to take it inward that what we see is a policeman who, in order to use words that are also used by others, is actually executed in an armed mission. There can be no doubt that the police will have all the support and all the opportunities to pursue this until it is resolved. There's a need to say from the Great Council. So the representative was in on two other important questions, including: Armed with the police. The police directorate has started work to look at police equipment, based on the fact that the police are still unarmed as usual, but that in situations where there is a need to be prepared, the situation is based on what has happened in Stavanger. I think it was reasonable to address it when the question was asked. In the case of important methods, for which I have been involved in implementing and gaining broad agreement in Stortingen, both the police and the prosecutors agree that this is important. Proposals for new methods will soon be put to the consultation and will be subject to a thorough assessment. However, there is no doubt that we are open to considering new methods to protect ourselves from estimates that affect democracy and fundamental human rights – especially when it comes to preventing and combating terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e266	I fully agree with the Council of State that it is important that the police have methods and competences that are in line with the criminal environment. But it is also important that we stop the recruitment of young people into these tough criminal environments. The need to do something about the fundamentals of the criminal chain is just confirmed by the violent scientist Ragnhild Björnebeck, who believes it is fundamentally important to do something early in the criminal career of the violent people. She believes that the suspected perpetrators of Stavanger bear the mark of having a long violent career that started early, and that prisons simply function as educational institutions if you don't do anything about it. Here we're dealing with something absolutely fundamental. In addition to the fact that we have to do something about the pay queues, we also have to do something about the content of the ransom, otherwise in the future our prisons will also serve as purely youth recruitment institutions for such cruel criminal acts as the one we have experienced in Stavanger. My challenge to the Council of State is: what will he do to help us get more funding for criminal services to avoid such actions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e273	I don't want to wonder, as opposed to the violent scientist, who is who in connection with what happened in Stavanger. I'm going to find out that it's investigating the police, and they're going to have full support for that. But, of course, I agree with the violent scientist that if we take our eyes off Stavanger – as it may be challenging enough to do, but let's do it – we are quick to agree that we know that young people can lose their feet and end up in a criminal career. Just in Stavanger, all exemplary work has been carried out in cooperation with child protection and conflict councils. You just follow young people who start to slide, in such a way that if you lose your foot fast, you are simply visited at home by your father and mother by child protection and the police about at the same time. The police told me the same night I was out with Arne Sigve Klungland, that this gave results. In the city where we have just seen some of the roughest things that have happened in Norway in the area of organised crime, there is also exemplary work, with the guidelines that the representative has taken up and which are important to follow – because we agree that in order to avoid anyone becoming a criminal, we should do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e279	There will be three follow-up questions – first Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e282	With regard to the fight against crime, perhaps what is causing the greatest concern among both the Norwegian population and our justice politicians is that today more and more convictions are going out and more of which have to wait longer and more for their criminal reaction, because the instruments we want to put in place to change behaviour are not actually being put in place in time. In 2001, when the Minister of Justice joined, it was more than 2,000 in line. In 2002, the figure was 2,422, and in 2003, at the turn of the year, 2,500. We hear today that it's gone down a little bit, to 2,350. Is the Minister of Justice satisfied that this figure is so high, so stable for so long, or does he see that exceptional measures must now be put in place so that we can just get rid of the queue that in many ways creates the greatest insecurity?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e289	With respect to reporting, it seems that the first part of the article did not take over the answer I gave to the representative Gjul, namely that the reconciliation queues are decreasing. So they're down to approx. 2 350, and that was 2 057 at the turn of the year 2001/2002. This means that measures aimed at strengthening the capacity of criminal services, with broad support from the EEA, deliver results. But it also means, of course, that we have increased the use of both community and conflict councils for those who can deal with them that way. I fully agree with the representative that it is important to get settled early, and that you should not wait long. That's why it's very good that the nesting cows shrink. But that's why it's important, as I experienced, among other things. in Tromsø yesterday, that the Council of Conflict works closely and actively with the police to catch up with young people — including under 15 years of age — where it just tells us what this can do to deliver results in small and dense environments. I return to Stavanger as an example, for there we have an illustration of the police's work: on the one hand, the fight against the most brutal form of crime we have, and at the same time a very exemplary work on the north of Europe to do just what it takes to ensure that young people are swindled in time, and that reactions other than prison are used.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e298	No Marte Thorkildsen for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e301	I'm going to follow up on this one with soaking cow issues. There are now between 2000 and 3000 queues, and it has stabilised at a very high level. We see this as a concrete expression of passive justice policy by a passive government. The answers given by the Ministry of Justice to this problem have been partly a strengthening of the problems and partly a direct failure. Duplicating and temporary disposal sites have been quite concrete examples of this. Had the Council of State really been effective, he would have done something about the main problem, namely that six out of ten prisoners have drug problems, and the majority of them receive an offer of treatment in alternative institutions or in measures such as: The Stifinner. 70 pst. It is clear that we would have done a great deal with crime if we had taken action here. Therefore, I would like to ask if the Minister of Justice now sees that it is absolutely necessary to do something about both drug prevention, drug treatment and, not least, post-protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e310	The representative of Thorkildsen will, through my answers to a number of excellent initiatives and posts she has had, know that I see several things at the same time. I'm gonna have to bring down the reconciliation queue, and it's gonna decrease. That's what I think we're going to enjoy instead of being concerned about maybe wishing it had been bigger for possible political reasons. Let's enjoy it decreasing. At the same time, I've been very busy working together on people who are struggling with drug problems, so that the justice field actually has to face the health and social field in such a way that people who are rushing get a chance. Much of the work that is developing in Oslo is an example of that. The work on the Drug Court, which is a safe way to ensure that school authorities, labour services, child protection and police go in at the same time, so that a negative spiral of crime and drug abuse can emerge, is important, which shows that I am just thinking about it. Preventive work among children and young people under the guise of ‘student young criminals in time’ by looking at situations in time, for which we have many excellent examples — for example: What I referred to from Stavanger, but we also have other Norwegian examples – is an expression that I follow different strategies to combat crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e321	Jan Arild Ellingsen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e324	It's always interesting to hear the Minister of Justice's answers to challenges in the UK, as well as today. I record that the Minister of Justice spoke of support in all possible ways in terms of intervening and clearing up what has happened in Stavanger, but also in terms of the settlement queue. He shall refer, inter alia, to: to look at equipment, and it is interesting to note, at least for my part, that one of the problems facing the justice sector is the consequences of a budgetary settlement between the government parties and the Labour Party, where the justice sector does not at least appear to be a winner. It is also the case that some sometimes accuse the Minister of Justice of being involved in formal matters and perhaps of being quite circumstantial. If there's one thing the criminals aren't concerned about, it's formalities and it's being cumbersome. They're acting. That's why my question becomes to the Minister of Justice here: Isn't it time for the justice sector to act? We're on arrears. We're going to put in extra pardons, we're going to have investigations about yours, and we're going to have investigations about your date. Isn't it time for the Minister of Justice to show action instead of just being verbal in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e333	It's a wonderful world. I don't show any action here. If we get on the outside, I'm accused of being too vigorous and almost raw. I was accused of that when we promoted the law to ensure informants in the fight against organized crime. Then Ellingsen was a good supporter with others in Stortinget. As far as the situation is concerned, I acknowledge the budgets we have. But I would say directly in Stortinget that when we also had a deal with the Advance Party, it was approx. 50 million. NOK of approx. 5 billion kroner were spent to strengthen the police budget. So there has not been a significant race to make sure that the budget I manage is particularly large. That's why I have to deal with the budget I have. I am proud of police officers who manage the budget in a good way, for example. with good results in the fight against violence. I'm proud of the police officers who are throwing themselves in and helping colleagues in the way that's now happening in Stavanger, and I'm prepared to sort this out. And I am glad that I myself have made suggestions, including: to combat organised crime last year, which allows the police to use police methods to prevent organised crime, namely the tightening of the penal code, § 162(c). So I'm going to continue with activity, and we're probably still going to have meaningful discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e340	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e343	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. The first generation of seed funds in Norway is now almost fully characterised, and thousands of Norwegian enterprises with good projects have no possibility of accessing seed resources, and thus no possibility of creating hard-to-required jobs. I am aware that there is an agreement between the Government and SV on new funds for underprivileged areas. But what the heavier environments want is a new nationwide seed fund, where what is crucial is how good the projects are, not whether they are located on Dombås, on Dokka, in Hammerfest, in Nord-Trøndelag or in Oslo. Will the Council of State go in to establish a new nationwide seed fund and present it in conjunction with the State budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e351	First, I would like to say that seed funds can be a very appropriate instrument for starting operations. Because there is no doubt that in parts of the market there is a restriction on obtaining equity. There's a lot of reasons for that. I'm not going to go into the whole tax problem that's behind us, but it hasn't exactly been the Grandfather's overall task trying to create private capitalists. If you are to get hold of private capital, you must also have private capitalists. It's a problem that Oslo Børs is made up of company 5 pst. owned by private investors and 50 pst. owned by the Norwegian State. We're getting very distinct. Now we have six funds that are already established, and that have taken out almost all of the 400 million. kr in state capital as they should, and it is invested in 140 projects around the country. Now there is also a discussion about whether it is that there is primarily a lack of capital, or whether there is a lack of good ideas. If you go in and look at the 140 projects in which these seed funds have invested, it is so far that no exit has been made with profit. There are significant problems in some of these seed funds, and we may have to note relatively large losses in not too long. Then, as the representative said, we are setting up four regional seed funds. I have said in the past, and I can repeat, that forward to the budget for the autumn we will assess the basis for, the need for, and not least the arrangement of seed funds, and then of the category of nationwide seed funds, i.e. in particular, it shall cover those areas which are not covered by the four regional funds. An assessment of it will be submitted in connection with St.prp. No 1st week in October 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e360	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I feel went in the right direction for the many thousands of companies that will be able to open up the possibilities if this can be realised. A consultation group has evaluated the five-year Seed Scheme for the Government, and it is recommended not to link these funds to economically weak areas, rather to established and robust environments in research and university environments. Others believe that funds should be linked to fund managers based on heavier industrial environments, for example. our natural resources. Does the Council of State wish to assess another device and binding, against special areas of Norwegian industry and business, in order to make more use of the funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e367	It is quite clear that one of the reasons why we have carried out the great evaluation we have done is to gain experience in how to set up new funds. There are several ways to do this, and at least I can see that the device on those who are established has, to varying degrees, been successful, in the sense that I might think it would be wise to link this a little bit differently in the future. I think it's important that we involve private investor environments along with private capital, so there's an obvious risk also on the private side and it's hard to make decisions that lead to loss on the government's hand, because it will also have consequences on the other side. This I will come back to in St. Prp. No 1st@item: I would nevertheless have said that, in principle, seed funds are a sensible device.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e372	There will be three follow-up questions – first Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e375	There is no doubt that the seed funds set up have contributed significant capital to Norwegian industry. But we who are concerned that we are going to grow across the country must realize that most of the capital has ended up in the big cities. Of that fund, such as: is in Middle Norway, the so-called Seed Fund for Middle Norway, some twenty investments have been made in Trondheim, while in my own county, which is a district state, one investment has been made. Therefore, there is no doubt that the existence of the seed scheme has led to a significant capital injection into the large cities, while it has not gone beyond rural areas. Now there are new seed funds targeting the districts, which we in SV are very pleased with. Does the Council of State think that the new district funds now to come will make a significant contribution to stopping the relocation from District Norway by being able to create new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e382	What I feel absolutely convinced of at least is that if we are to achieve the entire will of the Greatness in terms of settlement throughout the country, we must assume that we must strive to establish profitable jobs throughout the country. I also feel very sure that we are going to be able to establish these regional seed funds, and I also feel sure that the model we have set up will be such that it will not in any way lie behind for the nationwide ones we have, as far as success is concerned. I was in Namsos last night and had the first meeting on the acquisition of such capital – it was from the counties of More and Romsdal, South-Trundellag and North-Trundellag. I have very good faith that there is an enthusiasm around the District Norway for this. We know that there are many good projects also in District Norway that have not been realised, but that will have an opportunity through these seed funds, and we will be able to establish them during this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e387	Olav Akselsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e390	It is true that the philosophy of today's government is that if a given tax haven, as one has done, there should be greater access to private capital. At the same time, a choice has been made to cut public solutions such as SND and Lending Fund, and one has not recapitalised the Seed Fund. When we engage in industrial policy, we travel around the country, one of the most frequently encountered issues is the lack of available capital. It's also true that the banks are in a situation where they keep going. Now the government's policy has been working for almost three years. Large tax haven't been given. My question is, what time will these funds be put at the disposal of the local entrepreneurs via private capitalists, as the Right and Government claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e397	This is already a significant reality. We have quite empirical evidence of the proportion of the tax burden that goes to reinvestment in companies and the development of new jobs and further development of existing ones. It's billions that have gone into it. I just want to remind you that the seed resources under different governments before this accession, including the government in which the representative Akssen himself was in, totaled 400 million. kr. So this district system alone includes 800 million. kr. But it is quite obvious that the largest pre-Norwegian business now has, of course, the released capital is linked to tax relief, because nothing is easier than building up equity at its own profits. Secondly, there are about a third of billions of minor interest expenses, which are, of course, used and invested to secure jobs. Now we've got a dollar price in place that means we have an explosion in the export. So it seems to go absolutely brilliant!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e402	Odd Roger Enoksen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e405	Holdings in different phases need different types of capital. Seed capital goes to companies that are in such an early stage that they have not yet achieved commercial results, or where you don't even know if it's possible to commercialize the business idea you're working with. In such a phase, it is often difficult to obtain private capital, and neither tax relief for existing business, nor retained profits, nor low interest rates are necessarily necessary to assist these enterprises. When the Minister of Economic Affairs says that he will look at the device of seedlings in the future, where also a significant risk must lie on his private hand, I have to say that I am a little worried, because in my opinion you should go the wrong way if you really wanted to get innovation and risk-based business, where there can be a yellowing among many. Doesn't the Minister of Industry see that maybe you should go the opposite way and take a bigger risk on the government's hand to really get innovation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e413	I note from the press that both venture funds and others point out what is called a lack of good project, a project that deserves a lot of money. I feel very sure that it is also important for the government to balance the interest between taking obvious risks, which will in reality appear to be a grant, and getting innovation. I feel that it is quite important that business and the state together do the assessments of which projects to go into. It's been based on what we're doing now, through Argentum, for example, where we invest in funds. There are professional people in the industries you're in. I think you also have to base that on the future. It must not be misunderstood that way, in reply to Hedstrøm, that we are now going to transfer the entire risk to private individuals, and then we are going to appear from the state's hand as lenders – that is totally out of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e418	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e421	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. It has been completed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. State axles and state companies have most of the day been fined for sale. According to the media, there have been many good offers and money to spend on those who have turned on. One of the companies that according to the media has gone to cheap is SND Invest. What worries the Labour Party more than the price, however, is that at the sale of SND Invest, the Minister of Industry has done a good job in the workshop. SND Invest was an important tool to secure capital for small businesses and entrepreneurs. SND Invest was a long-term investor and deciding for many companies its existence. Several entrepreneurs and business owners have made contact with me after this sale and are now concerned that the new owners will take their capital and disappear. This could lead to a risk of loss of holdings. Does the Minister have any countermeasures to prevent that from happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e430	I will first take absolute distance from the use of words like "cleansing" in relation to what might have been said in the media about how specifically two companies, Arcus and SND Invest, have been mentioned. In the case of the two sales that have been promoted in the media, I have to say that there is a significant degree of difference between the two. In the case of Arcus and that sale, it happened because the then government, of which Akssen itself was a member, chose not to sell the entire company, but sell a two-thirds control, which made the sale price of the remaining third what it became. Schjøtt-Pedersen also said in his statement to the Stortinget that they had gotten less because they had chosen not to sell the entire company, and the consideration was Norwegian potato growers. When it comes to SND Invest, you can discuss whether to sell SND Invest or not sell SND Invest. But let me say, before I answer the actual question, that I think time will show that it's done in a way that at least maximizes the value when you first sell. In the case of the active substance SND Invest itself, it is a company that has been operating for 11–12 years, has made investments and had a portfolio before the sale of approx. 120 companies. I can't see any signs in the time to, nor have any idea, that the new owners should be less suitable to impart competence to the companies in which it was invested. When you look at the average return on SND Invest during the period they've been through, it doesn't seem like a brilliant business. That means I can't say that I'm worried about the 120 projects it's invested in, and I've realized that the new owners are now willing to set aside an amount of 200 million. kr to make follow-up investments, in order to take them further and secure the enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e441	It's because it's not necessarily a brilliant business to go into all small businesses around the country, as SND Invest has done, that it's important to keep this up as a tool. We all know that in a start-up phase it may take a long time for a company to make money. We also know that a lot of private investors have a much more short-term horizon and want to get their money back much faster than what happened to SND Invest. What is the concern of many of the companies that today have SND Invest as one of their largest owners is that the new owners will now take their capital and disappear. Then my question is again: does the minister have any prescription to prevent that from happening, or is it such that one takes the chance to carry out his ideology that the state should not be inside the Norwegian business community?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e448	I cannot see that this sale is anchored more ideologically than the sales of the representative Akselsen himself. I can't see that any of these have been considered and justified in just that. Now it's not that a minority shareholder in these 120 companies can, as the representative says, take the capital. What's that supposed to be? What you can sell is the shareholding to other investors who may be interested in being owners of this company. In this way, I can't say that there's any reason to fear the development of the 120 companies. Nor is it the case that this was an instrument for, like, spreading around to small businesses around. This was a company that had income requirements, and that both the representative Aksensen and I have been involved in defining, and that is not exactly such a philanthropic department in the state. This was an investment company that would have a return to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e457	There will be two follow-up questions – first Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e460	I have a brief question to the Council of State: The investments made by SND Invest were those made mainly in central and urban areas, or were those made mainly in rural and rural areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e467	Now, of course, I don't have a full overview in my head of the 120 who were in the portfolio at the moment we sold, but at least it's not such that this only applied to small businesses in rural areas. As far as I remember, a significant part of the portfolio was also in listed companies. The biggest amounts, as far as I remember, were in one of the Smoke companies. And without that I want to guarantee the percentage, I think that about 90 pst. the investments were made in what can be called the most central ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e472	Morten Lund - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e475	In this case, the media has revealed that the Council of State has sold chickens in rainstorms. It could have been a brilliant business. Now it's the other thing that makes it very good because SND Invest was sold the way it was. There was no reason for panic, and it is of course critical that the administration and the board of SND Invest were not asked and taken on board when it was the way to sell it. The central party disagreed that this was to be sold because in SND Invest it was a long-term state owner. There was a state owner who was in the boards of the companies they owned. It was another way of being state-owned than what the state is in other companies. It was important to be able to have State ownership in the discussion of the way in which the State should act as owner in the future. SND Invest was also central to the small shareholders in the context of the forced redemption in Norway Seafood, just as the People's Security Fund was central to other forced redemptions. Doesn't the Council of State see that someone here has sold chickens in rainstorms?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e485	As far as I remember, it was one day when the sun shined – absolutely. All of these characteristics and false statements that Lund makes are so many that I can't answer them in 1 minute. It is wrong that SND Invest was not asked. We had an innumerable meeting with them. It is not that they were not taken on advice. They have a broad documentation of what advice they gave us, a documentation that has been sent to Stortinget, and that Morten Lund, if he were interested, would have come to know. It's not like, as Lund says, the companies that SND Invest went into were long-term investments, unlike much of the other state ownership, which is long-term. This was an investment company that had a horizon of five to seven years, usually, like the private companies. I strongly reject the fact that in connection with the sale that took more than 22 months, this is something that can be characterised as urgent work of some kind. It was a significant amount of interest in that, it also shows the documentation I sent to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e501	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e504	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Focus documented by DNA tests yesterday killed on the wolf in Norway. One of the wolves that had been killed was even the radio brand in Sweden. Norway's leading wolf researcher, Petter Vabakken, says that approx. 25 wolves disappear without a trace in Norway and Sweden every year. Few of these wolves are in Norway. The wolf is the rarest mammal we have. Murder on the wolf is therefore an attempt to eradicate the wolf in Norway and a very serious environmental crime. In Focus, Ecokrim says that these killings cannot be investigated, and it is repeated by police in today's newspapers. Will the Council of State ensure that this very serious environmental crime is investigated so that it can be prevented from trying to eradicate the wolf in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e515	First, something basic: the prosecution authority in Norway is independent. It is governed by the Riksadvokat, and it would be very special if I were to add something to the Riksadvokat. But I can say the following: I believe that environmental crime is a serious crime, and I assume that it is being investigated. I heard an interview with the representative of Økokrim on the radio this morning early on, where he says that you can do what you can, but that these are sometimes difficult and very demanding things. This is also evident from the report why he feels that you are doing what you can. As for the debate meeting at Elverum yesterday, where, without naming anyone, it was the closest thing I found that someone was almost in the vicinity of civil disobedience or encouraged it since my own participation in Mardøla in 1970, I have to say that the police work is not easy. What I'm going to do is I'm going to include this in the regular conversations I have with the National Attorney. When, for example, the Riksadvokat have ordered a central investigation to follow the animals' liberation front or others who might be engaged in regular warfare and damage to those who are engaged in a legitimate industry, i.e. the fur industry, I am also concerned that environmental crime is being combated. So I'm going to take it with me in natural contexts where I have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e522	I thank you for your answer. I know Odd Einar Dørum as one who has been concerned about taking care of biodiversity in Norway, as well as the wolf. But it is not foreign from other countries either that preventing sniping and killing endangered species is a very demanding task of police, and we cannot discharge ourselves from that responsibility. Had the effort in India to preserve the tiger and south of the Sahara to preserve the lion, the elephant and the hippopotamus been such that we should be so backward in taking those who are trying to eradicate these species, it would not have looked good for the world's biodiversity. We also have an international responsibility to take the lead in combating those who are trying to eradicate an animal species such as a large majority of the population who think it is important that we take care of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e529	Norway is bound by the Berne Convention, and all the conventions that we have and the laws that we have, I have to base my compliance. It's my impression that the prosecution authority also takes up serious crime in the way they're going to do. But it is also the case that the crime described here, which I think was well reported in the interview with Økokrim’s representative today, is demanding. I am given the following reasons: agreements must be followed, legislation must be followed, what is serious, it must be reacted to, and those who disagree with the laws must have their influence on the Stortinget, which I note is happening in these days in the case of a wolf debate. Then, as a representative of the Government, I want the SV's representatives to keep a bold, higher profile in the debate on the matter, but it is a different topic than the one that the representative raised with me now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e534	There will be two follow-up questions – first Gunn Karin Gjul.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e537	It is said that it is a difficult task for the police to investigate animal crime. It's a fact that over half of the wolf's juvenile disappears every year, and you have to ask the question, where do they go? I think it's pretty serious that the police don't take animal crime any more seriously, not least given that the government and the Stortingen for not so long returned the state's nature oversight and assigned it to a police authority so that these supervisors were just able to combat animal crime. Then we experience that crime is not prioritised and taken seriously by the police in relation to the kind of predators that are most threatened by everyone, the wolf. Governments and his party have a tradition of real environmental exposure, and what I want to challenge the Council of State is: Will he ensure that the police are allocated the resources needed to investigate animal crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e542	The resources of the police are, as the representative is well known, included in a budgetary settlement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties. When it comes to combating serious crime, it often requires specialised competence. Ecocrime has such competence, and they do what they can. I will not go into the prosecution's work, nor on how it should be. Of course, I'm going to engage in dialogue with the police authorities in terms of competence, and in terms of the dialogue I have with the National Attorney, I'm going to deal with the issues I find right there. I would also like to express – and I allow myself to be so free, since the representative has raised another question before today – that the representative has the same intense commitment to combating predators on two legs, which she has in order to protect them on four.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e549	No Marte Thorkildsen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e552	SV is satisfied with the positive attitude of the Minister of Justice towards this. But we are nevertheless concerned about the overall situation of Ecocrim. We expect the Minister of Justice to talk to Ecokrim also in terms of their resource situation. Ecocrim has previously been involved in other types of cases and has announced that they now have too narrow a framework for them to be able to properly follow up their responsibilities. It is not sustainable in Norway. So here we're going to have equality for the law, and it's not going to be like that, for example. White-collar offenders are more likely to escape than other sections of the population because it requires more resources to investigate their affairs. This is why the question of the Minister of Justice, among others. in the context of the revised national budget, consider the economic situation of Ecocrim and not just the fact that it is up to the Police Directorate to distribute the pot. Because it can be thought that it is actually the pot that is too small, and then it is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice to ensure that both white-collar crime and animal crime are given the necessary priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e558	Now there must be no misunderstanding: white-collar crime, as it is called, is actively combated in Norway and with good results. Fauna crime is also being combated. At all events, it is expected that the police will fight all forms of serious crime, whether organised in one way or another. As far as the prosecution is concerned, it is a fact that lies below the Advocate General. As far as the competence side is concerned, there is something in the governance dialogue I'm going to have with the Directorate of Police, and in relation to the resources, it's up to the Stortinget and the budgets that are adopted. It is absolutely right that there will be a revised national budget. In general, I would like to say that the challenges facing the police include: after the event in Stavanger, will be taken up to a special and thorough discussion in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e565	Let's move on to the next main question. It seems that we can raise another main question, from the representative Karita Bekkelem Orheim, but that means there's no follow-up question to the question from Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e568	I want to ask the Minister of Justice a question. The Commission that examined the accident to ‘Utvik Senior’ in 1978 concluded yesterday that there was no misnavigation and a breakdown, as the first Commission stated, but that, on the other hand, it was probably due to a collision, which I understood the Minister of Justice confirmed yesterday when he received the report from the Commission. This means that the survivors, who have lived for 26 years with claims about navigation errors by their family members, have now been told that this was not the case. My question to the Minister of Justice is short and good: Is the Minister of Justice, in view of what has now happened, going to take an independent initiative in restitution and compensation in relation to the survivors?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e577	For my part, I was pleased to note yesterday that the report submitted after the loss of the ‘Development Senior’ – and the Commission started its work in 2002 – states that the probable cause of the loss is collision with another ship, probably on the starboard side, and that the ship – to say the public – was where it was supposed to be. The last thing I understand is of great importance to the survivors, because they don't believe that someone has made a mistake on the sea. Seafarers and coastal people have great respect for it. As for the other pages that have been raised, I would like to ask for respect in the storeroom for the fact that I have to get involved in what is in the report. I will review the report and the various questions that follow in its wake – in this context also the questions raised by the representative. I will provide preliminary information on that work in the context of the revised national budget, because the Stortinget has previously stated that they want to be informed about what is happening in relation to the Utvik Senior Research Commission. In addition, I will take the initiative that the questions that have not yet been answered by the Commission to other countries, I think there are eleven countries in all, will be reminded by the Ministry of Justice, and that the Commission will be used to assess the answers received. What happened yesterday was a very important event, where a commission of great nocturnalness has done a job, based on a work for which I want to praise firesellers, namely that one found the engine, because it was the one who determined where this loss took place. I am also pleased that the survivors have received an important confirmation through the Commission's work that their loved one has not acted in a crazy way at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e586	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer, and I have a great deal of understanding that the Minister of Justice needs time to get into this matter. I also hear the answer that was given, that we also have the same approach to this matter. My concern is that the survivors, who have lived with these claims for so many years, must now at least have a hope of not going the long way about a legal case in order to get the uplift that I believe they are legally entitled to after the claims they have lived with all these years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e591	I can see that the question has been raised. I would just like to say very carefully that I found reason, after the Commission was set up by the Ministry of Justice in May 2002, to provide a one-off grant of NOK 150 000 to the support group, which could be used for purposes that would best care for the survivors and their work. Regarding the question raised by the representative, I commented on it in the main response and have no more to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e598	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e601	My question goes to the Minister of Education. The Workers' Party has found that the Government has focused most on and allocated most resources to private schools as far as this ageing period is concerned. Now we can hope that our public schools are on their way. We are, as the Council of State is aware, of the notion that there is a close link between quality and resources. It is true, as the Council of State has repeatedly argued, that Norway has a high level of resources compared to other countries, and in some municipalities we can probably also get better use of resources. But at the same time, our dilemma becomes the image we get from Kommune-Norway. There are principals who have to go to the flea market to buy furniture and curtains, there are students who don't get pencils and laundry clothes, and there are also students who are sent home because there are not enough teachers. We are simply seeing a development where there are greater differences between our municipalities. We believe that there is much that can be done to improve initial training. Quality work in the school has been ongoing and must be ongoing. My question is whether the Council of State really believes that it is possible to implement the measures contained in the Quality Communication without addressing the resource situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e612	The answer to the last one is no. There are, of course, concrete indications in the communication of the cost of the various measures. This Communication is unusually concrete in terms of the numbering of what it will cost to increase the number of hours and to develop new curricula, and not least contains a historical commitment to the competence of teachers and school leaders who are about ten times more than the Workers' Party ordered in the context of Reform 97. So, of course, it will cost. In addition, when it comes to the resource situation in Norwegian school, a very wrong idea was given in the question here. The grant to the private schools is exactly the same now as it was when we took over the government offices. They get 85 pst. of equivalent in public schools. They receive nothing for capital grants. When you look at the resource development in public schools, we have the KOSTRA figures. They can probably be processed and improved, but the most recent figures show that there is a resource development in Norwegian school where the number of dollars per person is. students increase. Most of the increase has been paid to teachers in the last year, but there has been a deliberate policy, and the cost of teaching material shows a relatively stable trend. In the case of construction, we have, for the first time, been given more qualified information than what we have had to trust from the press. ==References== 70 pst. by the municipalities and approx. 80 pst. by the counties believe that they have a very good building mass. The municipalities rank the school buildings as the second best buildings. The counties rank the school buildings as the best buildings in their history. I don't have any evidence to say that there are any major differences in School Norway with regard to resources. The vast majority of Norwegian municipalities use about the same in school. There are a small number of municipalities that use less, and a small number of municipalities that use more, and most of it has completely natural explanations like demography, etc. So there's a remainder there that we can't explain, and that's one of the reasons why I've chosen to conduct a direct supervision against those who use extra little.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e619	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Now it's quite right, as the Council of State says, that in the big news she chooses to be very specific about the training of teachers. But the question is whether one can be just as specific to some of the other measures that need to be put in place to increase the quality of school. I hope that the Council of State takes these examples seriously. It may seem like small things in the big context, but we see that in the municipalities the picture is quite different, and we know that many people are struggling to get their budgets to go together. The Council of State has provided an important message, for which I believe the Workers' Party could provide a lot of support, but this will have no value if the Council of State does not get its Finance Minister – that it will be tax and not school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e626	These are strange questions. I expect the representative, who himself has government experience, to know that you don't control on the basis of examples and anecdotes. You just have to get into the real numbers and control the best knowledge you have. I have tried to explain the economic situation in School-Norway. Of course, it doesn't rule out that there are single schools that can feel that it's intrusive, or that you can want more, but we have to relate to the best number material we have. With regard to the economic impact of the communication we have been promoting, I would recommend the representative, Mr Orheim, to read the last chapter, on the economic and administrative implications, and compare it with the economic impact of Reform 97. You'll see that there's a huge difference. The difference is about ten times, as I said, and it's in the present government's message favor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e634	The time for the oral question procedure is now over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e639	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. Question 8, from the representative Arne Lyngstad to the Minister for Education and Research, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 10, from Mr Svendsen's representative to the Minister for Food and Trade, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative of Mr Hedstrom to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Food and Trade, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e657	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘U.S.A. has endorsed Sharon’s divisional plan to separate the Israeli and Palestinian populations. This will mean that six colonized areas with nearly 100,000 residences will be integrated into Israel. The Israeli settlements in occupied areas are international law-enforcement, and their maintenance will create crucial obstacles to the establishment of a Palestinian State. What is the foreign minister's view on this, and how has Norway responded to the support of President Bush to Sharon on the issue of settlements?'
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e666	The Israeli settlements on the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem are built in violation of international law. In principle, therefore, there will be a step in the right direction for Israel, as proposed by Prime Minister Sharon, evacuations the settlements in Gaza and some settlements on the West Bank. We are now awaiting a formal decision on this in the Israeli government. Retirement may create new momentum in the peace process if some essential prerequisites are met. Firstly, the withdrawal must take place according to the Roadmap for Peace and be based on the vision of a two-state solution. Secondly, withdrawal must take place in close cooperation with the Palestinian authorities so that they can take control of the areas left by the Israelis. Furthermore, it is a prerequisite that the residents of Gaza should not be moved to the illegal settlements on the West Bank. Pending a permanent solution to the conflict, Israel must continue to halt the expansion of the West Bank settlements. A final definition of the border between Israel and a Palestinian State and what will happen to the Israeli settlements are issues that can only be resolved through negotiations between Israel and the PLO. However, Resolution 242 of the Security Council basically provides for Israel to withdraw its armed forces from the occupied territories in 1967. I have spoken publicly here at home and in connection with talks I have given in the United States this week after Easter, that no one on behalf of the Palestinians can or should tie up such a question outside the final status negotiations. As chairman of the donor country committee for assistance to the Palestinians, AHLC, Norway will now look at what the international donor community can do to create the right framework conditions for the success of the withdrawal from Gaza. A constant feature of several events in the area in the past is that they make it even more difficult for the Palestinian self-government authorities to fulfil their role. It further complicates a peaceful solution after the road map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e683	I thank you for your answer. I also see the positive in it that an absolute must withdraw from Gaza. But perhaps the most interesting question of international law is that one now actually confirms that one wants to base six constructions with 100,000 inhabitants. Isn't this contrary to international law? What measures does the Minister of Foreign Affairs see that Norway can propose in international forums to press — I would like to use such a strong expression — the United States not to give the Israelis support for such radical and international law-enforcement measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e690	That's what I answered in my main response, that I'm quite clear – and was it several times when I was in the United States last week – that these are issues that can only be resolved in the final status negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians. It is important that no one on behalf of the Palestinians should prescribe another solution. As I said, Resolution 242 of the Security Council states that Israel should withdraw its armed forces from the areas occupied in 1967. The very fact that we are paying so much attention to the fact that there are real negotiations to take place will govern what we say in all international forums on this issue. I want to add that my final point in the main answer, that a number of events now make it almost impossible for the Palestinian self-government authorities to exercise authority and leadership over their own people, is very much concerned. I have expressed this to several American actors lately, including Minister of Foreign Affairs Powell.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e699	I thank you again for your answer. There is no doubt that the Palestinians are today extremely isolated, both politically and humanitarianly. I am very pleased with the answer the Foreign Minister gave first, that a now supports and activates the work in relation to humanitarian action. But political support for moderate Palestinian forces is also important. What does the government do? How does the Order follow up on this? We've got a lot of things to do. has proposed that a wholesale delegation should be sent to meet both parties. What does the Government do to maintain frequent contact with the political environment outside the Israeli government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e706	I can say that lately I have probably met more representatives of the Palestinian self-government than the Israeli government. Last time we visited Oslo by the Palestinian Prime Minister. Immediately before, we had a visit to Oslo by the Palestinian Minister for Foreign Affairs, so there is no doubt that we have extensive contacts that way. We emphasise that we should have good contact with both parties in this conflict, precisely to have positions of the kind that I have now advanced. But, as I said, I would like to stress that our channels to the Palestinian self-government authorities are very open and very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e716	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘Recently, the conflict between the occupying powers and groups of the population in Iraq has escalated sharply and the security situation has seriously worsened. Very many, both civilians and soldiers, have lost their lives in the last few weeks, and the danger of full civil war seems to be present. What is the foreign minister’s view of the US occupying power’s handling of the current situation in Iraq, and can Norway take some initiative to strengthen the United Nations’ role in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e725	The security situation in Iraq has become significantly more difficult over the past few weeks. The situation is particularly difficult in the cities of Fallujah and Najaf. It is the occupying power that is responsible for maintaining peace and order in Iraq. This responsibility is American and conscious. During Prime Minister Blair's visit to Washington last week, he and President Bush underlined the importance of stopping the acts of violence and of sticking to the timetable for the transfer of sovereignty to the Iraqis themselves, June 30. Recent developments in Iraq show the importance of the non-stopping of the political process and the transfer of sovereignty to the Iraqis as planned. This will be essential for the establishment of an Iraqi government. The danger of an extension of unrest to other parts of Iraq is present. It is therefore very important that the occupying power act in such a way as to reduce this hazard. At the same time, we can state that there is still a great need for international stabilisation forces in Iraq. The Iraqi capacity built up in the security sector has proved insufficient. Both the UN Secretary-General and members of the Governing Council have warned that coalition partners are withdrawing their troops now. The UN needs security to carry out the tasks that we want them to do. This impression is even clearer for me after the visit to the United Nations headquarters in the Easter week. I share the assessment that an extraction as a result of the difficult situation in Iraq will send an unfortunate signal to the rebel groups. With regard to our own military commitment, it's the way that decisions apply out this six-month period. If we don't make any new decisions, our engineers will leave Iraq for the summer. From the Norwegian side, we have long pointed to the need to have a stronger role for the United Nations in Iraq. We have stressed that this is necessary to ensure that an Iraqi transitional government obtains the necessary legitimacy and credibility. This applies not only to the international community but also to the Iraqi people. I presented this in conversations with representatives of the administration in Washington and at the United Nations Secretariat in New York just before Easter. It is therefore gratifying that the American side is now in favour of a strengthened role for the UN, as President Bush and Prime Minister Blair recently stated. We are facing a crucial time in Iraq against the transfer of sovereignty. The support of the international community will be absolutely necessary to succeed. The Government will continue to support the work of stability and peaceful development in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e746	I thank the Minister for a thorough answer. This is a very serious situation in Iraq at the moment. In Fallujah many American soldiers have been killed, but also a significant proportion of Iraqi civilians. The big paradox is that these losses are not counted, so we really don't know how many civilian Iraqis have been killed. I would like to challenge the Foreign Minister to give an assessment of the American handling on the ground, i.e. of the situation itself. Does the Foreign Minister think that the way in which the United States is now dealing with the situation in Iraq is wise in relation to the situation that is now in Fallujah, but also in relation to the hunt they have launched on al-Sadr, which in a way is creating an enemy image, which can also contribute to a serious situation in the long term? What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about the way in which the United States is now carrying out its occupation of Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e755	Providing an assessment of the military handling of this situation, it is very much beyond what I think I have a professional basis for, from Norway. It's also a special perspective to make an ongoing comment on that question. What we need to do now is take care to get the security situation under control. Not least, the role of the United Nations in Iraq is very dependent on the fact that there is sufficient security around it. Sharing a character book, which I understand Kristin Halvorsen is looking for, I therefore think is a little bit on the side of the challenge we are facing in Iraq. There must be another perspective that is the basic one: how to get maximum security in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e764	I don't think it's unreasonable that the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs has an idea of how the United States is doing its tasks as an occupying power in Iraq, and in particular because Norway has a contribution to the stabilisation forces and is part of the very serious security situation that is now there. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is aware that the role of the United Nations must be further strengthened in the future. It is quite obvious that military power cannot make a solution if there is no legitimate path to a political solution, where the United States must actually stay much more away from what is the political solution. If not, you will not have a regime in Iraq that has legitimacy. I'm glad the Minister for Foreign Affairs is very clear on that. I can then ask if it is such that the Government's assessment of the possible extension of the presence of Norwegian forces has been made, as it has worked in the Prime Minister's public statements, or whether it is still to be assessed whether the Norwegian contributions should be extended for another six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e778	First to the basic premises. I think we have to stress that here there is a close link between security and political progress. It's here, like anywhere else, so that the political momentum depends on security, among other things. that the UN will be in place, and vice versa. Security and military forces in Iraq are therefore necessary. It is not for nothing that the Secretary-General of the United Nations warns against the withdrawal of the coalition forces. It's a very important message, because it has something to do with the future role of the United Nations. When it comes to what we're going to do in Iraq, I imagine we don't want the engineers there in the second six months. I do not conceal that my experience from Iraq suggests that there are good arguments for having them there still. Not least, the safety situation is an expression of that. But it is also important for us to ensure that resources are used on priority No. 1, which is Afghanistan, so that it is possible for Norway to do its job in that area. It's like unless other decisions are made, we're going to end after this six-month period, and there's no such decisions. In that case, you would have changed in relation to the timetable we set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e790	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘When a relative calls the patient’s phone at Haukeland University Hospital, the telephone bill for the relative is charged $3.27 per person. minutes. Many find this system expensive and untimely. Does the Council of State think it is right that it costs so much for relatives to call patients at Haukeland University Hospital?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e799	Telephone contact between patients and relatives, and the outside world, is important during a hospital stay. There is also a background for patients’ phones becoming self-evident in hospitals. I am aware that several hospitals are struggling with old systems, where relatives via a central desk have to call the watchroom in the department, and where the caregivers have to go with messages and telephones to the patients. This is time-consuming, it's inappropriate, and it takes care not least of the caregivers' attention away from their actual duties in the hospital. Technologically, it is now not only possible, but almost necessary, with patient phones at each hospital bed. However, this presupposes a telecommunications network that not all hospitals have today. However, technological developments also make it possible and desirable with a greater degree of integrated services at the patient’s bed, i.e. services which include, inter alia: monitoring of patients and communication between patients and watchrooms in the department, as well as telephone. Such a network is not reasonable for the patient to pay, in whole or in part. I have clear expectations that healthcare companies through the development of such networks will achieve the possibility of a satisfactory solution in relation to patient phones. My opinion is that one finds solutions that make it cost no more to call a patient admitted to a hospital than what it costs to call a phone booth or a mobile phone. The question from the representative of Frøiland is based on the situation in Health Bergen. Health Vest has informed me that in January 2003, Health Bergen HF entered into a five-year operating and operator agreement on patient and coin telephony at Haukeland University Hospital with the company ICT Diensties AS. This supplier offered lower exit rates than the previous supplier. Health Bergen prioritised getting the lowest possible rates for outgoing calls for patients. Between 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. 18 costs outgoing calls NOK 0.43 per. minute, while between 2:00 a.m. 18 a.m. and a.m. 08 costs NOK 0,27. Ringers calling the patient telephone's main number are given the following message: «Welcome to the patient telephone system at Haukeland University Hospital. The service is open between 7 a.m. and 2200 p.m. and costs NOK 3 and 27 per cent. minutes.’ So there is information about how much this costs, every time a phone is called. I have been told that this is a purely self-financing system, and that Health Bergen HF does not have any net income from this scheme. If the tariffs for talking to patients were to be lowered, either patients would have to pay more to call out or Health Bergen would have to subsidize the patient telephones significantly. The system is in place to provide patients and family members with the best possible facilities to maintain contact during hospitalisation. Health Bergen has received feedback that the priorities should perhaps be different. They will therefore now take the initiative to evaluate the entire telephone system for patients to look at possible changes. As part of this, Health Bergen is in the process of conducting a questionnaire among patients and related patients' phones. The results of the survey will be available during this six months, and Health Bergen will then assess whether there is a basis for changing the price structure, i.e. the price ratio by calling in and out of the patient phone. Finally, let me remind you of the importance of telephone contact for patients admitted to hospital, and what needs this meets. The solutions adopted include: in Health Bergen, is done to meet this as quickly as it has been technically possible to obtain.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e826	I thank you for your answer. Of course, I agree with the Council of State that it is absolutely necessary to be able to communicate with a patient at the hospital via telephone. The hospital in Bergen is a university hospital, which receives patients from all over the country. Therefore, it is very often that a patient cannot be contacted by any other means than by telephone. Then it's totally untimely, I thought, to be charged 3.27 kroner per minute, because it's going to be a lot of money. In addition to the burden of hospitalisation, it is a financial burden to keep in touch with a patient in the hospital. I think it is very good that Health Bergen takes the initiative to do something about it, because I believe that this investigation will lead to that we are forced to do something. What I also hear, because I have also called this phone and have received this information, is that the caregivers now get a phone with a message to go to the patient, so that the patient can call out. Then there will be a heavy burden on those who work at the hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e835	I don't have so much to add to my main response, except that the user survey that Health Bergen will now undertake, supplemented by the user impressions that Frøiland's representative expresses, will be an important basis for the hospital to see if you can do this more user-friendly and patient- and family-friendly than the scheme is today. I trust that Health Bergen has this in focus when they develop their arrangements, and that they will provide feedback from those who are involved, the users, relatives and patients, on the basis of the development of this system in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e840	I understand that the Council of State agrees with me, even though he does not say directly that this is something expensive. I also hope that the Council of State will take this with it, in relation to both Health Bergen, Health West and other regions, in order to hear if there are now agreements for other hospitals with such companies that think money, big money, that there should be contact between patients and relatives. It is important that Health Bergen does the job they have told them to do. So I also hope that the Council of State will follow up with the others, because it must not be the case that the scheme should be a dairy for some companies that can make good money that people who have to lie in hospitals must have contact with the relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e847	I fully agree with the representative of Frøiland that there should be no dairy cows, neither for the hospital itself – that is not the case in this case – nor for companies offering services. They shall compete for those services and there shall be normal conditions of competition for the provision of such services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e855	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The health oversight of the health director has recently identified major deficiencies in many public hospitals in the emergency plans required by law. In a time when, in part, global terrorism is serious, this is worrying. What will the Council of State do to ensure that hospitals have the necessary contingency plans in case of a possible crisis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e864	I share with the representative Alvheim’s view that it is important that health care is well prepared. Strengthening the crisis management capacity of healthcare is therefore one of four areas of government health preparedness in 2004. The other three areas of activity are to strengthen preparedness for nuclear, biological and chemical events, so-called ABC events, to work towards robust health care security of supply and to strengthen international health preparedness cooperation. The health sector is a standing preparedness organisation, where general preparedness is most important, including in extreme situations. The general knowledge and experience of the emergencies in dealing with different situations will also be essential for the management of any terrorist attack. We know that the health sector in general and hospitals in particular are very well trained to deal with emergencies, because this is part of everyday life's events. The focus of health oversight on emergency plans is an important contribution to ensuring that we have a rolling and up-to-date plan in this field as quickly as possible. The follow-up to the Health Authority is a study carried out by the Directorate for Social and Health in October 2003 on behalf of the Ministry. The aim was to obtain information on the status of preparedness work as a basis for further follow-up of municipalities, health enterprises and regional health enterprises. The deadline for preparing emergency plans for both health enterprises and for municipalities under the Health and Social Protection Act was set at 1 July 2003. The results of last autumn showed that there was a good start, but that, to put it that way, there was still a potential to improve the work on contingency plans, and a good deal has been done during the six months since the survey was carried out. Let me briefly explain and comment on some of the findings of the study that were the starting point for the question. In October 2003, all regional health enterprises had a health and social preparedness plan. One RHF informed that the plan was preliminary and would be further processed. It was approved by the Management Board of the health business concerned in November. Nearly half of the healthcare companies, 41 pst, had the plan ready. The others had started working on the plan. Many health businesses are new organisations that include several former hospitals. Hospitals and county councils had their emergency plans before the reform. However, these had to be reworked to cover entire health establishments and had to be upgraded in relation to changes in functional and task distribution between hospitals within the health establishment, including, where appropriate, between health establishments. All RHF had procedures for updating the plan, while only half of the HF had it in October 2003. I would like to stress that emergency plans cannot or will not be drawn up once and for all, but need to be revised continuously as changes occur, whether in the healthcare system, in cooperatives or in the community around them, and the plans need to be continuously updated in relation to changes in the threat picture and the risk conditions that we are planning to meet. The restructuring of the hospital sector is a change which necessitates a recast of the emergency plans. The regional health establishments have given priority to completing the regional emergency plan, which is a comprehensive document and defines the overall structure to which health care establishments are to align their plans. I have, to make sure that there is also a systematic review and update of, among other things. emergency plans, required regional health establishments to draw up and implement plans under the law. Feedback now received by the Ministry confirms that this is progressing well in the implementation of the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e887	I thank the Council of State for a thorough and positive response. Hospitals have been required for a very long time to draw up contingency plans in relation to both war situations and civil disasters. In this context, hospitals are also required to hold significant stocks of various medical supplies and medicines. I myself have been the head of a public hospital, where we had these imposed plans, as it turns out now that many public hospitals do not have the power to implement. The main reason, I think, is that no funds are allocated or prioritised either for planning contingency plans or resources for stockpiling important medical supplies and medicines. Is the reason from hospitals still the same? Is the lack of resources to ensure that the emergency plans required by law are not satisfactory per year? current date? Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e896	My opinion from the material I received from the study I referred to is that the implementation of emergency planning has been demanding primarily because of the significant restructuring of the hospital sector that has taken place. This applies not only to the hospital reform itself and to the transfer to state ownership, but also to the restructuring of health businesses, where several hospitals have merged into one enterprise. So hospital emergency plans are available, but there is a need for a set of plans at the level of health enterprises involving several hospitals. I refer to the emergency plans of regional health companies being in place, and I expect that when health companies are going to report to the Health Authority now per year. 1 May, we will get a different and far more satisfying picture than what the Health and Social and Health Directorate had on their table a few months ago. I expect these plans to be in place within a few months at the level of local health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e903	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. As I see it, the contingency plans must be rolled annually in terms of equipment and in relation to the threat picture, in particular in terms of annual exercises. Access to disposable equipment to hospital operations may be most vulnerable during a crisis or disaster. Health professionals are no longer qualified to produce health care supplies, infectious fluids, etc. themselves. So you're totally dependent on external supply for these articles in hospitals. For how many weeks is the operation of public hospitals permanently in stock? Have special efforts been made recently to ensure water supply to public hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e912	I basically agree with the representative Alvheim that it is essential that the plans be continuously rolled and that they be practised. The value of the plans is that they are up-to-date, that they are known, and that they can be practised by the personnel to deal with them. In this respect, I assume that the need for the type of material asked by the representative Alvheim is also being identified. I cannot answer specifically here and now the question of how long the consumption is in, but I want to look into it in more detail and let that information get Stortinget and the representative Alvheim to knowledge in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e922	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «A time ago, it was found that war criminals from the former Yugoslavia should zone here in the country. The fact that Norway takes international responsibility is all right, while leading to some issues that may be of interest. Are foreign war criminals as zones in Norway to zone according to the same criteria as other prisoners in Norwegian prisons, or are there specific regulations to which the criminal justice system has to deal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e931	The starting point is that war criminals convicted by the International Criminal Court in the former Yugoslavia, who are to serve as zones in Norwegian prison, are subject to the general rules governing the execution of criminal offences in this country. There is an agreement between the United Nations and the Norwegian Government on the enforcement of judgments given by the International Criminal Court in the former Yugoslavia. This agreement states that the conditions under which the compensation is to be paid must be governed by the law of the State which executes the penalty. However, in two areas, the agreement entails certain modifications in relation to Norwegian law. This applies for the first time to parole before the end of the atonement period. It follows from the agreement that the general rule for the settlement of crimes committed by the Court of Justice of the former Yugoslavia is that: ‘the competent national authorities of the requested State [must be] bound by the length of the sentence imposed’. This departs from the rule of the Penal Code on the possibility of parole after two thirds of adjudication. It is not, however, such that access to probation under Norwegian rules is completely curtailed. If the prisoner qualifies for parole under Norwegian rules, the court shall be informed accordingly. The Court then decides whether release before the end of the period will be correct. If the answer from the Court is negative, the Norwegian authorities are obliged to comply with the agreement. Secondly, there is a similar arrangement for the granting of a pardon to the one I have now outlined concerning parole: if the prisoner under Norwegian rules fulfils the conditions to be pardoned, the court shall be informed, and it shall decide whether a pardon can be granted. Norwegian authorities are also obliged here to comply with the decision of the Court. These rules follow from Article 8 of the Agreement. In conclusion, I mention that under the agreement, the Court of Justice may at any time decide for itself that the execution of the requested State shall be terminated and that the judgment shall be transferred to another State or to the Court of Justice. Subject to the clarification, the rules on compensation for the foreign war criminals do not depart from the rules applicable to persons sentenced in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e951	I thank you for the answer, which I think sounds positive and reassuring. That's probably a reason, but there have sometimes been incidents in the direction of the Criminal Service that both myself and the Minister of Justice have stumbled over, in order to use a mild expression. That's why I think this sounds good. I understand that the Norwegian authorities accept this co-responsibility in relation to international obligations. I think that's positive, while also challenging the criminal justice regime and the way we think about it here in the country. Yet I see it as positive. But at the same time it is a paradox, I think, in relation to the capacity we have. The Minister spoke earlier today in the spontaneous question hour about reconciliation capacity and the challenges there. When we assume these obligations, it will affect the rest of the pay queue, even if it's a marginal number. Nevertheless, I want to go back to what the question is essentially about, namely the settlement of these people who are from other countries. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice if he can assure Norwegian citizens who live near the prisons where the settlement will take place that they will not meet these people on the open street.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e960	As regards the punishments imposed in the context of situations in the former Yugoslavia, I have explained it. The rules otherwise applicable, where appropriate for leave, etc., are subject to a safety assessment at all times in Norwegian institutions. That safety assessment is strict and it has led to few escapes. There are few avoidances from open institutions. The same stringency will of course be practiced here. It is simply the history and the content of the judgment that will be evaluated for each and every individual. That is what also makes it more stringent in two respects, in the sense that the individual assessment of a possible parole may in fact be excluded for these persons because of the seriousness of the war crime crisis. The same applies to pardon. But those who come here will be judged on the basis of what they are convicted of, and the safety assessment will be based on that. In that case, the conditions for these will be those which can be expected to be met by any other Norwegian citizen. Fortunately, few escape, and fortunately few escape.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e967	I thank you again for the answer. I believe to recall that the Norwegian authorities signed an agreement with the German authorities regarding the implementation of the last part of the settlement for Sohaila Andraves here in the country. I also believe to remember that the media claimed that the Norwegian authorities had gone beyond their regime with regard to the agreement that had been concluded with the German authorities, without me having any concrete knowledge of it. But I hope that was not the case. In conclusion, I just want to assure the Minister of Justice that the agreements in place are actually to be complied with, in any case, without any special reservations regarding the settlement here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e976	There is no strange reservation. Norway holds the agreements we conclude. I can just verify that there's an incredibly small number of people there, but that's our part of an international burden sharing. We also act internationally in other contexts, for example. in the case of prison cooperation with Russia and some of the Baltic States. There I can assure the representative that the settlement conditions are different from those in Norway. In this respect, we have seen it as a point of contributing to the general good of legal certainty and the properness of the conditions under which we are going to zone. But the conditions in Norway are regulated by the agreement with the United Nations, and we, as a state, of course, have every interest in following it. I also have a personal commitment to this, in the sense that I perceive the war criminal court of Yugoslavia as the civilised society settlement of brutal ethnic cleansing in a central part of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e988	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e991	I have the following questions: ‘In Cicerone 1-2004, Eirik Schrøder Amundsen, professor of social economy, says that ‘A market for trade in green certificates may, in worst cases, result in less production of green electricity, contrary to intention’, inter alia because the combination of green certificates and a trading system can also lead to ‘unintentional results’. He indicates that price changes in the two systems may have neutralising effects. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that this issue is thoroughly addressed to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1000	I will answer the question on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is working to establish a mandatory certificate market for renewable electricity in cooperation with Sweden. In connection with Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 9 for 2002-2003 on the domestic use of natural gas, etc., the gas notification, the Government was asked to initiate, preferably, a common Norwegian-Swedish compulsory certificate market, cf. Inner. S. No 167 for 2002-2003. A compulsory certification market can become an important part of the energy policy and, in the view of the Ministry, is a useful tool for increasing the production of renewable electricity. The Ministry attaches great importance to good progress in work and aims at the creation of a single Norwegian-Swedish certificate market from 1 January 2006. During the spring, the Ministry will present a major report on, for example: the common scheme of renewable electricity certificates in Norway and Sweden. The necessary preparations for the establishment of a certificate market in Norway and for the certification market in Sweden will be prepared. This must include, inter alia: there is a law on the licence market and there is a need to make important clarifications with Swedish authorities. In the notification, the Ministry also intends to have a review of the relationship between a certificate market and an allowance trading system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1009	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Green certificates shall be issued on a planned basis to producers of renewable electricity, where consumers have to buy a certain proportion of green energy. Thus, it is required for sellers to purchase green certificates corresponding to this required proportion. The system is scheduled to enter into force from 2006, as the State Council has just confirmed. Eirik Schrøder Amundsen, to whom I referred in my question, shows that there may be many pitfalls in the trading of allowances and the certification market in order to increase the share of green power. An allowance system will indirectly increase the production of green electricity because the costs of non-green electricity production will increase. Will the Government take this into account and, where appropriate, any other effects that may be counterproductive, when developing both the allowance market and a green certificate market?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1018	I refer to my answer. There will be a big message, and of course all aspects of the matter will be highlighted here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1023	I thank you again for the answer. I'm just going to have a little, concrete problem. If the allowance price rises due to more stringent emission requirements, the incentives to invest in green power will not be strengthened but weakened. The reason for this is that in such a situation the licence price will fall much more strongly than the force price increases, so that the sum of the two prices falls. So in a market fit, the gain of producing green force is going to fall. Can we expect the Government to take this into account, and if this would also help to further reduce our powerful industry, does the Government think this is a price you have to pay for once again being the best in the class?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1030	I thank you for the supplementary question, but the representative is probably here a little in advance, as there is actually a big message coming up where these things will be highlighted. So far as work is concerned, the Ministry of Oil and Energy is of the opinion that there is no reason to say that an allowance trading system will work differently from the existing instruments in the sector. Much can point towards — so far — an international development with both certificates and climate allowances. But again, all sides of the case will be illuminated when the staging message comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1038	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘In the latter period, child-restraint workers are hanging out on Internet pages with some serious accusations against them. It almost stamps an entire profession with cynical accusations of such a nature that it is impossible to defend itself against it. This may affect the important job that needs to be done in the field of child protection and prevent the recruitment of child protection workers. These employees only do their job and follow Norwegian legislation. What will the Council of State, as an employer for many of those involved, do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1047	I would first like to say that, in my opinion, the lists are those that hang out people who have had custody of child protection matters, on private websites, both unprofessional and pointless. I find it sad that some people feel the need to use such methods to try to swear to child protection employees and other professionals who have had child protection issues. If most people don't see how unfriendly and unhealthy the lists are, the lists could damage the legitimacy of child protection and scare people from working with or engaging in child protection missions. I would also like to stress that I find it very regrettable and unfortunate that employees in child protection and others who have had custody of child protection matters are being subjected to heavy personal burdens by being suspended on such lists. Through their work on child protection, these people do a very important job for society. The work on serious and difficult child-restraint matters may be burdensome in itself if they are not also to be subject to this kind of personal additional burden. The lists compile a large amount of personal data and provide one-sided assessments and accusations against a large number of persons. I believe there is a need to clarify whether these socially unwanted lists on private websites are covered by the Personal Information Act. To date, the Data Protection Act has not been applied to private websites, as these have been considered to fall outside the scope of the Act. Last year, however, the Court of Justice of the European Communities concluded that the websites of individuals with information on other persons are covered by the Data Protection Directive. This means that more websites on the Internet will be considered to be covered by the Data Protection Act in the future. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs has been in contact with the Data Protection Authority. In the light of several requests for the removal of personal data from the lists, the Data Protection Authority is now in the process of clarifying whether the lists are covered by and, where appropriate, subject to the Data Protection Act. The Data Protection Authority has announced that the clarification will take some time, because it addresses several very fundamental issues. I have to wait for the Data Protection Authority's clarification in the first place. I have no reason to assess whether there is a need to propose changes to legislation or other measures that can protect us from this type of online lists until this clarification is available. The Ministry is aware that some persons included in the lists have been notified of a criminal offence. I believe that it is up to each person on the list, if necessary in cooperation with their employer or organisation, to assess whether there is a basis for and wish to go to criminal prosecution. It is necessary to assess, in relation to the individual, whether the opinions and the listings are intimidating and/or infringing privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1060	I would like to thank you for a comprehensive and good response, which shows that the Council of State is concerned about this. This applies not only to child-restraint workers, but also to other employees. The most serious thing is that children are hung out on websites with pornographic images and used by the porn industry. To compare them with the police: they are also often in a difficult situation where their intervention is not always welcomed, just like the protection of children. The courts have drawn a line on how we can appeal to the police in action. The work to be carried out by the police shall be met with respect. We are quite clear on this in Norway. I wonder if the Council of State could think anything in those lanes also in relation to the employees of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1065	It's an interesting follow-up question, which I actually discussed yesterday, when I met with the head of the Joint Organisation, Reese. Now we have to wait and see what the Data Protection Authority is doing in this case. But it's clear that we can't have a system where child-restraint workers can hang out this way. Therefore, we need to consider further measures if it turns out that we cannot use the Personal Information Act to stop this kind of suspension of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1070	I would like to thank you again for your answer. I might have been even more satisfied with the answer that came now. I think this is a problem we have to take seriously in our committee in the future, and also the Council of State, not least in relation to the issue of children. It's going to be interesting to see developments in the future. As far as child-restraint workers are concerned, I am concerned about the recruitment process. Is there any immediate action in relation to training here, i.e. what can be expected in the first line service when a person is in such a exposed position?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1077	As the representative is well aware, we have a number of measures in place in connection with the conversion of the child protection sector, not least the large and new guidance work to be done against the professional teams, against the individual municipal child protection workers. In particular, in the municipalities where we have few employees, we believe that such a guidance task, such a training task, and the help they will receive in individual cases of great difficulty, will help both keep child-restraint workers longer in individual jobs and make them feel safer. But I believe that in this matter, on which the representative has the main questions, we fully agree that something should be done here. I am also satisfied that there are indeed several people who have already gone to the notification of these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1093	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1100	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Recently another new crab species, the snow crab, has been reported. This could mean strengthening the ecological problems that are already in the Barents Sea. The new crab species will be managed in the same way as the king crab, for example. the expulsion order and Russian participation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1109	Of course, when new species such as the snow crab can be found in Norwegian waters, we take it very seriously. Introduced species are a threat that we have to deal with. The first findings of snow crabs in the Barents Sea were made by the Russians as early as 1996 at the Gåssbanken east of the Barents Sea. Until 2000, Russian researchers have recorded a total of 19 findings of this crab. All findings originate from the eastern part of the Barents Sea. The Marine Research Institute, on its side, has so far been able to detect three findings of the snow crab in Norwegian waters. These have been beamed and distributed on Mehamnleira, Tidlybanken and two to three nautical miles outside of Båtsfjord. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea has good cooperation with the Fisheries Directorate's monitoring service for fishing grounds, which systematically records any catches of snow crabs in trawl fisheries. So far, the records made indicate that the extent of the snow crab is very limited in Norwegian waters, and that it is far too early to have any clear formation on any effects on the ecosystem of this introduced species of crab. However, as I said at the outset, we are of course taking this very seriously, and it is therefore necessary to take some measures already now to limit the spread and to get a better overview of the spread of this crab. Therefore, as an immediate measure, a ban on drafts in the Norwegian economic zone will be introduced. Thus, the crab must be taken on land and recorded in order to follow developments. At the next meeting of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission, we will discuss with the Russians new steps in an attempt to stop the spread. This is a species to be managed, in line with all other species in our common area, in the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1124	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's reassuring that we get a landing order from the snow crab on the same lines as other fish, except the king crab, where we have draft orders. At least we have been confirmed in Stortinget on several occasions. I have to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question, because the introduction of new species and the Government's attitude to the introduction of new species into Norwegian fauna are being discussed in the Government. I am aware that this is not easy. When new species are introduced into the sea, they usually become there. It's impossible to eradicate them, almost impossible at least. You can reduce them, but you can't eradicate them. What is the fisheries minister's attitude towards introduced species in his area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1133	With regard to the reference to the royal crab and draft injunctions, I would like to stress that with the limit that we are now drawing at Mager Island, the regime is such that there are draft bans west of this border, in the area not covered by the common administration that Norway and Russia have of the royal crab. It's precisely here that we're separating from the policy that's been in place for the last 30-40 years in terms of the royal crab, where there's been an agreement between our two countries to manage this as a resource. Now that snow crabs are observed, as I explained, in three findings in Norwegian waters and 19 in Russian zones, we have a different attitude to it, namely that this is an introduced species, which we must monitor, and which we must try to prevent the spread of. But as I say, it's too early to say something blatant about the spread and possible effects of it. We are now imposing a draft ban, and we are going to bring this into the negotiations with the Russians. Once again, it is important that we relate to the regime that we have on common management of all species, including discussing introduced species like this. But we have an offensive attitude to it, which I tried to express in my main response.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1140	I thank you again for the answer. I have another question. Ballast water from merchant vessels is not below the Minister for Fisheries' territory but below the Minister for Industry's. Nevertheless, the ballast water goes into the sea managed by the Minister for Fisheries. It's nothing new that new species come with ballast water. I suppose the snow crab has come with ballast water. What is the position of the Minister for Fisheries on this? What does he think to do with ballast water being pumped into the sea, and containing new species, which introduces new species into Norwegian waters? What does the Minister for Fisheries intend to do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1149	We have no reason to claim that the snow crab has been brought into the ballast water area. I have no idea about that, and the researchers have no idea. That's the one. The second is that it is forbidden. So if there's going to be a spread through this, it's an international ban on the deployment of new species. In the case of ballast water, there is a major and complex issue related to international shipping. The IMO has taken this into account. One of the measures discussed is: the vessels crossing the Atlantic shall switch ballast water several times during the crossing of ballast, precisely in order to prevent its spread. There is a need for international legislation here; it is not enough for us to have a Norwegian legislation. In part, these vessels move in international waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1167	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1174	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Food and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1177	I have the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Food and Trade: ‘Entrepreneurs have not noticed any reliefs in the form load since the Bondevik I government launched the ‘Simplify Norway’ project in 1999. Figures from the Brønnøsund registers show that companies used 6,560 annual works to fill in 677 state form variants in 2003. It's a decrease of less than 1 pst. and half of the government's objectives. Will the Council of State go to work more offensively to alleviate the burdens on traders?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1186	The work of simplifying and facilitating business is a priority task for the Government, and we have an offensive attitude to it. Work is important both to promote innovation and innovation and to maximise interaction between the public sector and business. Through the Action Plan A simpler Norway, the Government has put this in focus. Reduction of business loads related to State reporting requirements is one of several important areas. The average time spent by a trader to comply with State reporting requirements was reduced from 37 hours in 2002 to 35 hours in 2003. By comparison, 1998 was 41 hours. The result must therefore, fortunately, be said to be better than the representative Hedstrom refers to in his question. Of course, we had hoped that the number would have been even lower, but here we just have to take inward that this is a long-term work, and the government has patience to stand on in a long-term work. Through our work with a simpler Norway and other bets, we have to note that we are in a good trend with high pressure on simplification in large parts of the administration. We're working on several fronts to find new, good simplification measures. Here, cooperation with business organisations and input from individual enterprises is important, and they are active in this work. In the Action Plan A simpler Norway, we have also established a number of basic principles for this work that applies to the whole administration. In the reporting area, this means that the public should never ask for more information than those actually needed, that the enterprise should never have to report the same information more than once, that the enterprise should be offered the simplest possible way of reporting, and not least that there should be a reasonable relationship between the utility of the public sector and the burden on the enterprise. The numbers from the Task Register show that we're on the right track. The transition to electronic reporting is an important part of the simplification work on forms. AltInn, a common solution for reporting from industry to the state at a key pressure, was opened in December by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry. This channel delivered almost 40 pst. of the sole proprietors' task in January. That, in my opinion, is a brilliant result. Further progress can be made, for example: VAT returns, business returns, statistics to the SSB and accounts for 2003 are transmitted electronically. It's working actively to get more agencies to use this solution, and there's a lot going on here. Pending the completion of AltInn, there has been a certain restraint in some departments, but now AltInn is in full operation, and it will therefore be easier to get more in the future. The aim is for AltInn to become the preferred electronic channel for anyone who obtains information from business. Businesses will have a common and simple system to deal with, which will help to make everyday life even easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1199	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As he himself pointed out, AltInn is intended to help coordinate reporting from the tax haven, the Brønnøysund registers, the Central Statistical Office, etc., so that the results can now be seen further by sending a large number of forms electronically. I guess that's good. However, some companies are still not satisfied, and in particular the small and medium-sized enterprises still have to deal with different electronic solutions. This is complicated, you don't have competence, and it's also resource-intensive. Secondly, the problem at the root of the problem, the number of registration obligations or form variants have not been reduced in particular. This 2-hour reduction in the burden on reporting requirements is good, but the government itself had a target last year to reduce this by 100 years of work, and only 52 were successful. Can we now assume that the government with the new things coming in – there will always be some other means – is now able to reduce by 100 years of work and the 48 in addition to the ones you couldn't do last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1206	Yes, I think we're going to take inwards into the government that many companies have experienced our forms as looting and debriefing, and it's been hard to get an understanding of the benefits of it. Therefore, the objective is that we should not ask for more than we need, that business should feel that what we are asking for and that it is easy to report. We're in the process of doing that. Then we have to take inwards that the goal of 100 annual works was almost achieved in 2002. Then we reached approx. 90 years of work, while the result was slightly worse in 2003. The result in 2004 is too early to say anything about it, but now, AltInn will be fully effective, so we are optimistic. The important thing is probably not the number of annual works, but that we're in the process. As the questioner notes, this is complicated, but from the government side, we want to be measured on this. That's why we've set ambitious targets. We have established a good dialogue with the business community and the organisations, in order to create understanding both ways is central to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1213	I thank the Council of State for the additional response, and I am sure we agree that it is pointless that many companies should spend so much time working on the form. What they should do is spend more of their time on value-creating work and developing competitiveness, and, as some other countries, perhaps reduce the form burden and make it a competitive advantage for Norwegian companies. I know that the NHO has had a program for a simpler Business Norway and said that you could reduce this burden by a relatively high percentage – it has been suggested 20 pst. within a limited time period. Will the government now set more concrete targets to really reduce this burden, have something to stretch after?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1220	With the introduction of an electronic reporting system, I think we get a completely different working day. From business it will be felt that reporting is faster, and reporting procedures can be simplified as well as the recipient routines. The quantification of this in terms of percentages and targets must be a continuous assessment. But what is very important is that we listen to the management, listen to the advice and assessments that business has. This dialogue has contributed to an improvement; the goal achievement is better than we could have expected if we had not established this good dialogue. The questioner himself stresses that the NHO is an active party to this, and other business organisations are also an active party to it. We have high targets and view this as a continuous process, because we will not be finished either this year or next year. We have to press this all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1230	I have a question for the Minister of Defence: «The Ministry of Defence has previously rejected on two occasions a request from Halden Municipality and Østfold County Municipality respectively to restore the position of commander at Fredriksten fastening in Halden. This despite the fact that there is still military activity at the fastening and the position is assumed to be occupyable by the local chief and without additional costs for the defence. Can the Council of State consider reconsidering this decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1239	As a result of Storting's treatment of Innst. S. No 342 for 2000-2001, cf. St. pp. No 45 for 2000-2001, Fredriksten fastening is no longer part of the Defence Military Organisation. The fortress is now managed by Defence Building at Shifte Eiendom. The change of Property takes care of the maintenance of the fastening works and the further development of the fastening. Change Property cooperates in this, among other things. with Halden municipality, Fredriksten fastenings friends, Mansbach Foundation and other organisations and individuals. Thus Fredriksten fastening can still be a living cultural historical monument. The need for a commandantship on the fast was lost by a decision to collapse in the spring of 2001. Changing the location of Eiendom at the fastening today provides for the management and coordination of the activity, which was previously carried out by the fastening commander. In the recently submitted St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004 on the modernisation of defence over the next four years, the Government proposes that the management school's activities in Halden be brought together to Base Sessvollmoen and the Defence Staff School at Akershus fortification. The proposal means that there will not be military operations at Fredriksten fortification in the future either. The decision taken by Stortinget in the spring of 2001, after which the Ministry of Defence has decided, is therefore firm. With regard to the future of Fredriksten, the Ministry of Labour and Administration is today responsible for assessing the future management of the country’s cultural-historical properties, including national fortifications and cultural memories of which the defence sector currently owns. A working group, chaired by the Ministry of Labour and Administration, has been set up, with the participation of a number of ministries, including the Ministry of Defence. In order to ensure that traditions are kept in the best possible way, it is important to be open to new ways of continuing the traditions. The military-historical cultural heritage is preserved until further notice by Defence Buildings at Shifte Eiendom and will be preserved in the long term in the framework of the work of that working group under the Ministry of Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1254	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which unfortunately was discouraging for those who are working for the fact that there is still to be a commander at the Fredriksten fastening. But it's once that it per. date is military school activity at Fredriksten fastening, and proposals for its continuation are dealt with in the Stortinget. Therefore, I do not see that the basis for the commandant function should have expired. It is also the case that, despite a reduction or closure, several of the country’s attachments have retained or established the command post. I can mention Bergenhus, Oscarsborg as well as in the proposition available, Kongsvinger fastening. Is it not unreasonable for the Council of State that the Fredriksten fastening is then standing without a commandant?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1259	In the case of Halden and the fortifications there, it was already decided in the spring of 2001 that the commandantship would cease. The background was that there was no longer enough military activity in Halden. So it happened independently of the administrative school's presence in Halden, and so the proposal to move the administrative school from Halden is not relevant in resuming the need for a commander. In the case of the example of Bergenhus, it differs significantly from the example of Halden by the fact that there is considerable military activity in Bergen. It's the Maritime Defence Main Base, it has a large Homeland Protection District, and there's a number of activities there that make Bergen one of the leading municipalities in terms of defence activity in the future structure. Thus there is a different reason for the need for a commander of Bergenhus than in this case in Halden.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1266	I thank you for that. As a final supplementary question, or if we're going to call that comment, we can at least say that Fredriksten fastening is one of the largest fortifications in northern Europe, and that the fastening has had a very big impact on our country's history and is also one of the things mentioned in our national song. For those who are attached to the fastening, it is therefore, as I see it, historically and emotionally very regrettable that the institution that a commandantship represents has been removed. Finally, it will only be for me to send a request that you can reconsider this and perhaps look at this matter with new eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1275	I would like to stress that I fully agree with the representative Red that this is a very valuable historical fastening plant, and that it has a significant interest in our roots as well. I myself have visited the fortress in Halden, and am very impressed by the way it is taken care of, and the role it has played in Norwegian history. At the same time, I would like to stress that my main concern in the future is to afford to operate the military units that we need in the structure of the future. I therefore believe it is a good solution that under the Ministry of Labour and Administration, we have got our own working group to find new creative solutions to preserve cultural memories, without imposing sole responsibility on the Ministry of Defence, which, as I am sure the representative Red and his party are also familiar with, has no more resources than is fully capable of being used in relation to today's defence tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1286	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘In the context of the annual National Guard Board, many HV soldiers are ordered to assist the event. This seems to be too much misuse and the wrong type of training of the HV soldiers. Is the Council of State in agreement with this, and will she change this practice, so that the individual soldier receives the training he is entitled to?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1295	Defence shall ensure social security and other key societal tasks and support civil society. It's enshrined in the law. Support from the Heimevertet for civil events is provided for in Section 13 of the Heimevertet Act, which states: ‘Within the framework of the mandatory duty period, home-defence soldiers may be assigned to civil events serving the interests of Home-defence or Defence.’ As noted in response to the President of the United Kingdom on 19 April this year on questions raised by Mr Kjetil Bjørklund on the support of the Heimevertet to this year's national shooter's staff, the Defence Committee in Innst stated in 1994. O. No 18 for 1994-95 in relation to civil events that «Landsfoeting Board is a good example in this regard». That comment from Stortinget has been addressed by the head of defense. The Defence Manager prioritises support for a very limited number of civil events each year. Several events previously supported by the Defence have lost support as a result of such a strict priority. And in 2003 and 2004 it is the Ridder River and the Landsfoetal Board that have been prioritised by the Chief of Defense. In addition, in some cases, the Home Office has supported civil events with individual teams who have been exposed to regular practice and training. That practice, I believe, is the defence manager's intention to continue. The next natural opportunity to review today’s policy will be in 2005 in the context of the Defence Policy Action Plan for 2005, which will be available around the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1311	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a good answer, but not exactly the answer I wanted to get, of course. First of all, let it be said that the National Guard Committee is positive, and that is very good. We're still going to have the National Guard's staff in the future. That's not what's in doubt. But when you call 600 soldiers to this year's event, at least that's the number I've heard, from the HV Jären area, many of them are asking the question whether they get the relevant training, practice, checking equipment, etc. as one is entitled to be a HV soldier. And that's when you ask the question of being on a national shooter's staff, being on different tasks there, gives exactly that type of training, exercise, control of the equipment, etc. That's the question. When you know at the same time that there is a limited amount of money in HV, so that not everyone gets trained once a year, then the question is very relevant, we think that this is the correct use of HV's resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1325	It may sometimes be a challenge for any chief of defence to deal unambiguously with comments from the Storting. So in this case, the Storting in an attitude has used a formulation that emphasizes that the Landsschütterstyt is a good example of the support that Home Security should give to civil society. Here is full access for the Defence Committee in the position of the present Stortingsproposition, No. 42, to give new signals. I am open to what I believe the questioner is concerned about, namely that the Home Guard soldiers should have as much relevant practice and training as possible. Part of the modernisation of HV that we propose in St.prp. No 42, it is precisely aimed at modernising HV and providing them with increased access to relevant training. Therefore, at the turn of the year, when the activities for 2005 and the support to be provided by HV to civil events are assessed, it will be possible to take a new course in line with the practices that have been followed so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1332	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was more the way I wanted it to be, that we should look at what HV is still going to spend time and energy on. It is clear that this pronounced the defence committee in 1994, i.e. ten years ago – it has had a lot of water in the rivers since that time – so it is probably time to look at this practice again. When you're in St.prp. No 42 looks at HV and perhaps reduces from 83 000 to 50000 men — if that is the result — it is clear that the 50,000 have to get an exercise that is relevant to the service you enter. It's not certain that being on a national shooter's staff is just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1339	First, a little defense for the relevance of the Sniper's staff. The concept of home security is that you can both participate in the detailed planning of the Landsschütterstigent and that you can train the crews in sanitation, communication, utilities, transport and shooting training. However, I take with me the signals from the questioner that in a future HV structure that puts more emphasis on modernised units and relevant training and practice conditions, some of these activities may be re-evaluated. Of course, I welcome the new signals of the Defence Committee in the setting of St. prp. No 42.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1350	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Norway has ratified the Aarhus Convention on the Right to Environmental Information and last year the Stortinget passed a new law, the Environmental Information Act (Ot.prp. [[2001-2002]] No 116 According to this Act, can the SFT refuse public access to which chemicals are released at Snow White, and in that case how has the Council of State intended to ensure that the zero emission target is enforced and verified from the installation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1359	The new Environmental Information Act and simultaneous amendments to the Product Control Act mean that the public is granted an extended right to information on the environment both from public bodies and from public and private enterprises, to which the representative was also subject. In principle, information on the release of different substances from an activity will be environmental information to which the public is entitled to have access. However, exceptions exist from this general rule. In particular, exceptions may be made to the transparency of information which is subject to professional secrecy, such as: because of business secrets. The publication of the exact composition of a product may be such a business secret. Derogations from the general rule on transparency must always be justified. In their application for an emission permit to the State pollution control authority, Statoil has identified the chemical products they wish to use in their operations at Snow White and their expected marine emissions. This application has been made for consultation. The consultation required detailed information on the chemical products used to be provided. Therefore, during the transmission of the hearing opinions to Statoil, SFT Statoil requested to make the information available to the hearing bodies, for example: by publishing the HMS data sheet of the products concerned. HMS, i.e. the health, environmental and safety data sheets, provides, for example: information on the content of substances in products and their health and environmental hazards. As a result, Statoil has now published the relevant HMS data sheets on its website, which provide more comprehensive information. The government's objective of zero emissions from the petroleum activity means that, as a general rule, no substances that are hazardous to the environment should be emitted and that the risk of environmental damage caused by the release of other chemical substances should be minimised. Through its treatment of emission permits from the petroleum industry, SFT has good knowledge of emission conditions. The work on zero emissions is followed up by the annual emission reporting of operators and as part of the oversight work of the SFT. Annual reporting by companies to the SFT provides information on the substances or categories of substances emitted to the environment and are publicly available. If a request for further information is made to the SFT, it will be assessed by the SFT. Decisions may be appealed against to the Ministry of the Environment. As mentioned above, information on the release of chemicals as a general rule will be publicly available information.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1372	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I would also like to congratulate him on the Sellafield winner, although I think it is a little paradoxical that it seems that we have better control of emissions in England than what we have in Norway. I see the point of the general information made available from the SFT, but this is a special case, and it must be possible for the public to know explicitly which chemicals are released at the Snow White field. Can the Council confirm that the type of information, on the chemicals released at Snow White, will now be made available to the public, in line with the intention of both the Aarhus Convention and the new Environmental Information Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1379	First of all, I would like to thank the representative for also stressing the importance of the fact that the United Kingdom has today established that they will end with their radioactive emissions of technetium 99 from Sellafield. I think, with all due respect, that the representative's comparison here with what is to be provided by information on the use of chemical substances was not quite good – at least not when I also found in my reply to the representative that Statoil has now met the request from the SFT to make available information that was not previously available, also information that was not available at the time the representative asked the question. The health, environmental and safety data sheets provide, inter alia: information on the content of the substances in the products and their health and environmental hazards. This has now been posted on Statoil's website.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1386	I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear that this kind of information is now to be published. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State a question: Is he going to follow this practice in the enforcement of the Environmental Information Act – that emissions of chemicals and their exact composition should be made available to the public – because this is a matter which can further constitute the precedent for interpreting and understanding the law that came into force from 1 January this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1391	It is quite right that the Ministry of the Environment has placed great emphasis on getting to know the rights of environmental information provided by the Environmental Information Act and the Aarhus Convention. That's why we've also gone out with a campaign, even on TV, in relation to the new rights that you have. The Environmental Information Act has also had a positive effect on the case in question, where Statoil has provided significant increased information on its websites related to chemicals such as: used on Snow White. In the case of purely business secrets – that is, how the different chemical substances are put together, it may be a product on which you have almost taken a patent – I hope the representative understands that Norwegian companies cannot go out with it. The environmental impact of the emissions that are shall be known.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1401	I will ask the following questions to the Council of State Burnde: ‘Skibladner’ is cultural history and an international cultural memory, and its fate occupies many. Therefore, an application for exemption from the regulations on discharges from boats in watercourses has been made for the ministry. What is the Council of State’s assessment of this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1410	«Skibladner» has been temporarily exempt since 1999 from the ban on the discharge of sewage from ships in watercourses and coastal areas. The Ministry of the Environment continued to grant a derogation from the ban in 2000 under the condition that the sewerage from ‘Skibladner’ was to be treated hygienically and fairly by 2004. It was clarified that this condition provided that a technical solution which satisfies both hygienic and antique considerations and which has an economic framework allowing the continued operation of «Skibladner» could be found. As the representative refers to, an application for an extended derogation for the discharge of sewage from «Skibladner» has been sent to the Ministry of the Environment. I have noticed that in line with the current decision, the company has in recent years sought solutions that are both hygienic and antiquarian, without success. ‘Skibladner’ is an important and living cultural memory – for the Mjøsregion, national and international. The importance of continued operation of ‘Skibladner’ as one of the country’s most important protection vessels is an consideration that must be given great importance to the assessment of continued exemption from the emission ban. At the same time, consideration of water quality and the fact that Mjösa is an important source of drinking water must be considered in view of the potential impact of the release of ‘Skibladner’ in this respect. When examining the application, I would like to look for a solution that ensures both the protection of cultural memories and water quality in a good way. The Ministry has also carried out a consultation with the relevant authorities, and I will ensure that the matter is finalised as soon as possible. An explanation of the case will be available at the latest before the beginning of the year's sailing season.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1423	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I understand that he cannot give a final answer to that application now. However, I would like to make a recommendation to the Council of State. Both the answers and the statements that have come from interested parties, i.e. municipalities and county councils, I ask him to pay particular attention, not only to the technical answers that have come from the county officials. I am aware that in such cases cultural protection is balanced against environmental protection and emissions, but the release of «Skibladner» is described by environmentalists as de minimis, and I ask the Council of State to note that. A technical device in the "Skibladner" will destroy the ship, and I think the Riksantikvar is ready to save the ship if that results. So I'll come back with a recommendation to the Council of State. Very many people are concerned with the fate of 'Skibladner'. Thousands of hours are spent in restoring the ship and getting it as it is today. Many volunteers have been involved, and many are waiting for a positive response from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1428	I have noticed the recordings that the representative here makes, including those that have come from the relevant municipalities and county municipalities in that context. So we hope for a wise decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1433	Just one last recommendation from me. Will the Council confirm that he will take an overall approach to the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1438	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1443	Then it'll be all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1449	My question is the following: ‘According to the Nations on 1 April 2004, the Ministry of Environment considers that ‘a comprehensive plan for wind power generation in Norway is not appropriate in view of the time and resources that such work will entail’. Reference is made to the adopted 3 TWh wind energy target of the Stortinget. On what basis does the Council of State consider it appropriate to sideline previous focus on the importance of the precautionary principle and the need for impact assessments on wind power deployment, while investigating the ‘infinite’ for example. hydropower?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1458	In the Sem Declaration, the government has set the objective of expanding wind power equivalent to 3 TWh by 2010. This target is firm. Today there are plans for wind power projects corresponding to 12 to 16 TWh. All notified wind turbines undergo extensive treatment under the Energy Act and the Planning and Building Act. For all wind power projects, there is a requirement for impact assessment to highlight all the important aspects of the development plans that the representative is concerned with. Therefore, the NVE as a concession authority will have a good basis for assessing which projects are socially acceptable. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy have found in consultation that it would not be appropriate to draw up an overall plan for wind power generation. The development of such a plan requires an almost unlimited number of potential sites along our coast to be assessed, with significant additional work and red tape involved. In order for such a plan to provide a basis for deciding on specific projects, it will be necessary, first of all, to carry out thorough wind measurements on the ground. Secondly, it is necessary to clarify the capacity and costs of transmission from the installations. In addition, the assessment of infrastructure such as roads and berths will be required before adverse effects on other areas of society can be assessed. Such work will be very time- and resource-consuming. The question of a comprehensive plan, with the implications it would entail, was already assessed under the government of Stoltenberg, and it was drawn the same conclusion that I draw in this answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1474	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In a number of other issues we are debating at Stortinget with the Council of State present, emphasis is placed on the importance of preserving and protecting pristine nature, and of course I fully agree with that. I find it strange that we should have such an easy-to-use treatment for wind power generation, when this leads to so much interference, and especially when there are applications for 12-16 TWh. In any case, in my view, you should have a comprehensive and comprehensive plan for this. Now it's like in other areas and other issues, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, I just want to mention here the impact assessment of the Barents Sea, which has been going on for 25 years. You've spent over $1 billion on the Barents Sea, but when it comes to wind power production, you don't. In comparison with the Barents Sea, this is also a distortion of competition in different ways of producing energy. Doesn't the Council of State think it's a problem that you have a distortion of competition here?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1483	In my reply to the representative Korsberg, I concluded that all notified wind turbines are subject to a comprehensive treatment under the Energy Act and the Planning and Building Act. Then I said that for ‘all wind power projects there is a requirement for impact assessment where all the important aspects of the development plans need to be highlighted’. So the starting point is that the current and concrete wind power projects must be assessed in a consistent manner. What's the government's goal is to realize 3 TWh, and it's also got the Storting's approval. Wind power plants are subject to the legislation under which the representative wants them to be covered, and I thought the representative was very satisfied with this response.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1490	Whether or not the representative is satisfied with the answer will be shown. But at least the feedback we have received from the energy industry is that some projects in the field of wind power blow about right through the department in express travel. But when it comes to the expansion of hydropower and micro- and mini-power plants and that kind of thing, it takes a lot longer. And the argument is the same: environmental considerations. I record the answers given by the Council of State, and it might be interesting to ask a question later about treatment time: How long do you spend on wind power, and how long do you spend on hydropower, on environmental considerations? I record that we have a somewhat different view of this, and we will pursue this matter further. I really don't have any general follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1499	The starting point for the question was whether wind power plants should be subject to impact assessment before they were started. I explained that this is the starting point for wind turbines today. As far as the comparison with hydropower development is concerned, according to the information I have received, it is now minimal with investigations related to the overall watercourse plan. The operation of the plan itself has been substantially simplified in recent years, and the planned conversion from the sorting of hydroelectric projects to the sorting of watercourses and watercourse sections suitable for hydropower will contribute to further simplification of the hydropower industry. In addition, the Minister of Oil and Energy has taken the initiative in simplifying the processes associated with the realization of mini- and micro-power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1506	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-21.ana.ud2627e1517	There is no record.
