ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e25	The representative of Inger S. Enger will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e28	On behalf of Ola D. Glötvold, Morten Lund, Rune J. Klülaaen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to exempt VAT from the sale of alternative energy for domestic use.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e33	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e46	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e53	Today, the Stortinge deals with a proposal by May Hansen and Inga Marte Thorkildsen on the establishment of crisis centres for children in the five child protection regions. The debate on children in crisis involves and affects many. There is broad agreement on the importance of providing rapid assistance to children in acute crisis, due to various forms of abuse or social problems. The proposal may have good intentions, but the majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, do not see that it can solve today's challenges. The majority of the Committee does not see what the crisis centres, as proposed by SV, should be able to offer as the municipal and intermunicipal services do not already provide. There is likely to be a need for lowthreshold services for children that is the most central reason for the proposal. The majority believe that five regional centres will not provide a better offer, with the exception of those living near these five centres, because the travel distance of the regional centre will be too large for many. On the other hand, the majority record that the Ministry of Children and Family will have a proper review of today’s system to monitor the functioning of child guards and that, at such a review, the centre will be a monitoring of the availability of children in need of emergency assistance. The majority take it for granted that national child protection is able to cooperate with local authorities to ensure a transparent information that is widely known and is provided with a consistent offer, so that children in need of help get the help they need. As I said, the majority does not see that the proposal of the Socialist Left on five regional crisis centres for children will improve the situation for those in need of help compared to the offers we already have locally today. These are the ones that need to be strengthened and improved rather than introducing new, comprehensive and poorly accurate measures. That is why the majority is in favour of the proposal being rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e70	Today we are dealing with Document No. 8:85 for 2003-2004 by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen and signed on the establishment of crisis centres for children in the five child protection regions. This proposal was promoted by the undersigned in June, together with the proposal for a new child interview model, the children's home. I have been in a group of the Nordic Councils who have had a mandate to look at children's growing-up conditions in the Nordic countries, North-West Russia and Greenland. There is a negative trend in our countries that shows that many children and young people are struggling and need public intervention to improve their everyday lives and future. I have visited crisis centres for children, and I think it is very sad that the committee is not in favour of an investigation of and support for this necessary and good offer. This is an offer where children and young people can get help on their own initiative and on their own premises. The proposal envisages the establishment of a low-threshold offer of high-skilled staff, which can assess the situation of children and refer them further to the child’s needs. This is an offer that works very well in other countries. I myself have visited such a centre in Riga, which was a good offer of high competence that many children visited for various reasons, for example. street children, children who were subjected to assault and children who needed some rest to find out different issues. We need different offers for children and young people, because more children and young people need help. Children are different, and they have different issues. A lowthreshold offer as a crisis centre had been a good addition to existing services. A child crisis centre is not intended to be associated with child protection. This should be a lowthreshold offer that children can visit themselves. Here you should be able to stay from a few days up to a few weeks as you need it. There shall be a prevention action in which the child meets a multidisciplinary team that goes in and assesses further what the child needs. There may be children who have been traumatized, or children who live in a difficult situation and need a break from home. They will, as I have said before, have their situation assessed and talked to professionals. This should be a place where children and young people can get help on their own initiative on their own premises. This isn't a babysitter, as most places in the country are just a phone. It is not the case that child guards around this country are a destination. I come from a big city with a lot of problems, and the babysitting guard is only a phone. It is a high threshold for many children and young people to address child protection – children are loyal to their parents, and many experience it is difficult. Nor can the offer be compared to a crisis centre for adults, as the case-rapporteur has written. This should be a study and treatment provision for children and should further channel the children to the most appropriate offer for them. It may be child protection, but there may also be other offers. The five child protection regions are selected because we have to start somewhere and see how much this need is. So it's supposed to be like this, just like at the Children's House in Iceland, that professionals can go out into the districts of the children who address them. This offer works very well elsewhere. The children's home in Iceland is another model, which targets children and young people who are sexually assaulted. It is also a proposal that is now under consideration. We need different measures in Norway to meet the difficult situation of many children and young people. We have a negative development, with violence, more mental illness and more alcohol among children and young people, who need a variety of auxiliaries. One cannot say that this is not a better offer than what we have in Norway today for children and young people. This is an important and necessary supplement in other countries, which works very well, which the Committee should have considered in its consideration of this proposal. I want to address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e85	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e90	I want to read a letter that has been sent to the entire family, culture and administrative committee. I think it's important that we think about what this means for individuals. The letter is from a woman who made contact with us, without knowing that we had proposed to set up a crisis centre for children. She writes: «As a child previously abused and sexually abused at home, I would insist on the most insistent that this is necessary. Not all children are so lucky that adults detect or suspect the abuses. It's big numbers of darkness. Adult women in Norway have now had crisis centres to attend for many years. Children have nowhere to flee to, despite being far more seriously injured than adult women who experience abuse or rape. If child abusers experienced that society gave them real protection, it would clearly result in fewer social problems and different types of anomalies both in childhood and youth and later in life and alcohol. [[trying]] In addition, I was very depressed and was afraid all the time. Of course, it is the responsibility of adults to detect child abuse, but we know how difficult this is in practice, and that adults often hesitate to address the problem. I refer you to a debate on this in Dagbladet 4.10 this year by psychologist Turid Moen. As it has been up to today, many children live in pure concentration camps in their homes, and this may still apply in institutions for some children. I have spoken to other adults who were being assaulted as children who have been able to tell that they were going street-side in the evening or night because they did not want to go home and lie down, since they did not get to lie alone in their bed. When the most vulnerable children in our society are to be taken seriously, adult society must be able to take up the fight against the unfortunate aspects of family life, such as that home and family are not always the place where children feel "natural" they belong." I believe that these are strong and serious words that the Committee should really think about even more carefully before choosing to reject this as resolutely as the Committee has chosen to do. Many children live in a similar situation and do not know where to ask for help. After we have also incorporated the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, we believe that Norway has an extra great responsibility to take children seriously. Then we also have to facilitate the conditions for that to be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e106	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e114	We then go to voting on case No. 1 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e121	During the debate May Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The Socialist Left proposal conflicts with the budgetary procedure in Stortinget when we are now in the final phase of this debate. Section 19 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure states that the draft budget of the Scientific Committees must not derogate from the framework adopted by the Stortinget. Moreover, the proposals must be comprehensive and cannot be contested by any part of such a proposal. In the view of the President, the Socialist Left proposal is affected by this provision. It would undermine the budgetary procedure if proposals which have implications for the next year's budget were dealt with independently of the Committee's budgetary procedure. The proposal of the Socialist Left will therefore not be admissible for voting, and will be considered to be obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e135	The President shall put the vote to the vote, which shall give rise, inter alia, to the request for an early vote. the proposers to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10.ana.ud230e154	There is no record.
