ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e50	Honourable co-representatives! Former Stable Representative and State Council of the Christian People's Party Bergfrid Fjose fell asleep on 13 May. She was 89 years old. Fjose was born in Ullensvang in Hardanger in 1915. Here she grew up in a living and cultural home. She got rich impulses from the environment around the public hill where her father was the principal, and she was impressed by the cultural values represented by the public hill. Fjose himself took educational education and worked as a teacher in several places. She was at the same time active in municipal policy, and in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s she represented the Christian People's Party in the Municipal Government of Kvam, Årdal and Fana. Fjose had a long line of public relations. She was among others. Member of the Board of Municipal Schools and Culture, the Council of the Vinmonopolet, the Council for Crime Prevention and the Council of State for the Elderly. She was the director of the State Attractive Institute in Bergen from 1977 to 1982, and she was vice-chairman of the 1980 Daily Press Committee for two years. Both before and after she was a stammering representative, Bergfrid Fjose was strongly involved in various voluntary organisations, particularly related to the entertainment case, the target case and the mission. Through many parts of her adult life, she was, besides, a pedigree. Fjose also made a great effort in the fight against nuclear weapons and for peace. She had known for herself the consequences of the war on the body as a refugee in Sweden from 1943 to 1945. In 1969, Fjose was elected to the Stortinget. Fjose was the first woman to be elected to the permanent place of the Christian People's Party. She was also the leader of the Christian People's Party Women. In addition to fighting for the place of women in the party, she was an inspirational source for the young people in the Christian People's Party, and she opened many doors to them. Bergfrid Fjose was a staging representative for two periods. From 1969 to 1972 she was a member of the Protocol Committee. From 1973 to 1977, she was head of the Administrative Committee. Fjose was the social minister of the Korvald government from 1972 to 1973. It extended a clear line from the commitment that shaped Fjose outside of politics to the initiatives that she took as the Council of State. Among other things, the ban on alcohol advertising was carried out in her time as a social minister. Eight years at Stortinget is not a long stretch in a life of 89 years, not one year as a government council either. But with his untruthful commitment, his good mood and his solid political craftsmanship put Fjose striking traces behind him. In the course of the year as a state council she was allowed to become popular, and broad layers of the people got to know her disarming self-irony and friendly beings. Few had so many friends in all political camps. The struggle for women's place in politics and society, care for the weakest and work against war had a strong voice in Bergfrid Fjose. We remember her with great gratitude and shine peace over her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e82	From 9 June to 11 June, for participation in a Wilton Park conference in Dubrovnik, Croatia, application was submitted by Mr Henrik Rød. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Ulf Leirstein, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e110	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 20 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e121	The Municipal Committee asked in its comments at the beginning of the budget. S. No 5 for 2001-2002 on a Communication ‘On labour market and employment policy in the 21st century’. In the message that has now been presented and is being processed, it has been added to such a broad discussion. There must be no doubt: The fight against unemployment is the struggle of this Government. 1st@item: inlistbox And this Communication mentions the longer-term challenges of promoting a well-functioning labour market. The challenges associated with countering the exclusion process in the labour market are given high weight. A well-functioning labour market is also a flexible labour market, which adapts rapidly to changing demands for different types of labour, without creating a high level of unemployment or high levels of unemployment. A well-functioning labour market shall contribute to the ability of persons wishing to provide their labour force to obtain and maintain employment in a long professional career. It requires qualitatively good jobs, where enterprises facilitate the long-term management of the use of labour by the employees they employ. The distinctions in Norwegian policy are very good in the treatment of this communication. Government parties are in favour of the Advance Party. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are largely united in their glorification of the public sector. The labour market is the country's most important market, and people are Norway's most important resource. Unemployment is wasted on resources and unemployment must be reduced. It is therefore very satisfactory to see that the government's policy is working. There is nothing as important as the company's framework conditions in the fight against unemployment. Neither will anyone put their hands out of work without profitable businesses. The majority of the 20 billion tax relief during this Government has been facilitated by corporate taxation. I would like to challenge the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left if their tax reforms would lead to more or less unemployed people. My answer is clear: tax increases are less profitable for businesses, and the same companies consider not as many as would have been if they had had better results. In the worst case, employees are cancelled because the company is taxed in full and does not have profitability over time. In the case of Norway’s Bank’s foliorente and the krona rate, both are partly political. A tight fiscal policy, as this government has led, and leads, has contributed to the record low level of interest rates we have in Norway. We have met the three most prominent requirements of employment policy: lower taxes, lower interest rates and a weaker dollar rate. However, it must be said that the latter has recently strengthened, strongly assisted by a sky-high oil price. All lots, with government experience at least, know that unemployment is fluctuating. The Norwegian labour market has declined every year since 1998. In particular, in the years 2002 and 2003, the unemployment rate increased sharply. Weak international economic conditions, high dollar rates, higher interest rates and higher cost developments than our trading partners have contributed to this weak development. I am satisfied that the time off seems to have reached a peak in the autumn of 2003 and since then something has fallen back. It is also gratifying to see that the Statistical Central Bureau, the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway in their forecasts show an improvement in the labour market. However, my starting point is fixed: unemployment is too high and must be brought further down. It is very relevant here to quote the Statistical Central Bureau: ‘Unemployment increased less in this recession than in other recessions since the 1970s. From this point of view, stabilisation policies have been successful through 2003. This is taken from economic analysis No. 1st of 2004. Every year, about half a million jobs are available. At the same time, 1997 figures show that an average of 11 pst. changes in work during the year. It is lower compared to the countries that are naturally comparable. In the case of government parties, it is a good labour market policy to facilitate the least possible availability of jobs in the event of a job change and to combat long-term unemployment through targeted measures. When the large majority manage themselves in the labour market, public policy must not be targeted at everyone but at the minority outside. In clear terms, it means a stronger targeting of public actions, such as Aetat. However, it is clear that the individual himself is responsible for obtaining work and for his own professional career. It must be acknowledged, however, that not everyone is able to do it alone, and needs the help of either private intermediaries or Aetat. Aetat is the main instrument of labour market policy. It is important that the establishment operates in the best possible way at all times in order to contribute to low availability, good user service and efficient resource use. It is gratifying that considerable efforts have been made to develop the working environment and to reduce sick leave in Aetat. Organisations and competences of Aeta must reflect the tasks entrusted to it. Good interaction with other public establishments and external providers of labour market services is important in order to ensure optimal and comprehensive follow-up of users. With this Government, the Stortinget granted funds in 2003 to 420 annual works in Aetat, which is the largest annual supply of ten years. Aetat must be further developed as a modern establishment and must be developed and improved together with job centres in order to allow job-seekers to take up their own activities and to improve them. This will allow further efforts to be made towards groups facing enhanced Aetat assistance. I would also like to point out that previous investments in new economic and procedural systems need to be monitored so that more of the human resources can be transferred to user-oriented activities. Together with results and activity-based funding for some of Aeta's services, this could further improve and improve the follow-up of job seekers and disabled people in need of assistance. It is clear that a large proportion of the most vulnerable jobseeker groups use services from several welfare agencies, the social security system, the Aetat and the Social Agency. The follow-up of the individual user may be unsatisfactory and there is a need for assistance from several instances at the same time. It is important – and here the Committee is united – that the auxiliaries act as a whole. It is therefore very little satisfactory to register that St.meld. No 14 for 2002-2003 on the coordination of Aetat, Social Security and Social Services, SATS, has not been implemented. Government parties are pleased that Norway has among the highest occupational rates in the OECD region, and that three-quarters of the population between 16 and 74 years of age are related to employment. Compared to EU countries, Norway also has a high level of participation among the elderly. Two thirds of Norwegian 55-64-year-olds participate in the labour market. Nevertheless, long-term labour market developments are worrying. The number of economically active persons per year is still lower. pensioners will put increased pressure on welfare goods and the tax system. I also see room for concern that so many people are outside the labour market. The special doubling of the number of disability pensioners, from 160 000 in 1980 to 300,000 in 2003, is alarming. In addition, record daily work in sick leave disappears, and the AFP brings additional resources out of the labour market. Sick leave has a huge social and human cost. There is reason to be concerned about the development of both self-reported and medically reported sick leave. Long-term absence from the labour market, either as a result of sick leave or unemployment, causes many to find it problematic, and perhaps even very problematic, to return to work. The fact that 620,000 people of working age are out of work means that this is one of the main challenges. This residual ability of all these people must be used. It is a major social resource. I'm glad the government has started a systematic work to change this. Finally, I would like to say that a general access to employing workers temporarily for up to 12 months over a period of three years is a contribution to getting as quickly as possible into work. I hope the Government will take this with me in the work further. The Government Parties support the I of the Decision and will vote against the remaining Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e176	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e179	Since the government of Bondevik II took over government responsibility in October 2001, unemployment has increased sharply. At that time, there were at least 70,000 unemployed, counting those who were on the job. Since October 2001, more than 17 000 people with disabilities have been unemployed. The total number of jobseekers registered with Aetat has increased from about 163,000 to 236,000 since October 2001. Thus, over 73 000 people have been put entirely or partially out of the labour market during the period of government responsibility by Bondevik II. At the same time, we have had a sharp increase in the number of disabled people. In other words, a lot of people have fallen out of work in the time that the Bondevik II government has been responsible. Is it true that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark believes that the Bondevik government has so far been closed down in labour market policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e186	Unemployment is too high. The unemployment rate shall be reduced further. If one compares to previous periods and looks at figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, one sees that this recession has actually been managed in a very good way. In that way, I would say that the government's policy is working. If we're going to get unemployment down, we're going to have to enable companies to employ people. It's not done by taxing the whole business. This is done by giving them tax relief, and it is done by changing public schemes, so that the individual who falls outside a self-regulating labour market actually gets help. Then Aetat is the most important body, and Aetat has been strengthened by most annual work of ten years during this government. So this government's labour market policy is offensive, and it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e193	In several areas of labour market policy, the Right and Advance Party have very similar views, with the exception of some areas where we disagree. Government parties have for a long time insisted that we will have a shortage of labour in Norway in the future. In the Progress Party, we do not agree with the government parties in it. We believe that increasing technology and such things may make the need for labour smaller and not bigger in the future. Does the Right believe that the ageing wave is the main explanation that there will be a shortage of labour in the future, or does it have the other explanations? I would also like to congratulate the Right for joining the Progress Party's remark to legislate for the right to be unorganised in the labour market. I hope that this remark from the government parties and the Progress Party can lead to some kind of legal attachment according to the content of the comment. I am asking for a comment from the Right regarding this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e202	The majority in this hall consists largely of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party. I would like to commend the Progress Party both for its willingness to cooperate and for finding good compromises in a number of areas. The policy must be firm. I am pleased with the agreement that the Progress Party has shown. Then to economically active per. retired. One sees the alarming fact that it has gone from 3.6 per person to work. a pensioner at the end of the 1960s until the present day around 2.6 working persons per year. retired. The forecasts show that up to 2050, which is just about the worst year, there will be 1.6 active people per year. retired. There will be unnecessary pressure on both the tax system and welfare goods if we do nothing. This government has put forward a number of points in order to bring more people into the labour market, but we also have to take inward that we need a certain amount of work immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e209	I'm a little surprised that the representative Gitmark in his post does not at all know how important the welfare state is to the most important resource, namely the labour force. The way we handle it, so that employees can use all their resources for the benefit of their sea and society, is incredibly important. But instead, all the forces are used to attack the welfare state, as if it were useless to business. That's what I think is directly eye-catching. So until that government says they're most concerned about, that's to help those who have the worst. What does the Government do? Well, it goes into what we know works, that's re-introduction and an individual-adapted re-introduction. The government has made proposals that have led the scheme to be governed by rules rather than by objectives. There's going to be limitations on who's going to get it in terms of length, etc. Can the representative Gitmark explain why it makes sense with more rules, but not with more target management?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e218	There has been a long tradition in Norwegian politics that the welfare state is firm, independent of the party. The welfare state has a number of benefits that we're all taking part in, and that we're all going to need at a given time. The security network is established. Nevertheless, I would like to say to target public action: there is no point in wasting money on people who are basically doing themselves in the labour market or in other ways. Public services and goods must be targeted at all those who do not manage themselves, at those who fall outside. It is in this way very happy to see that this government has had the biggest investment in Aetat in ten years, precisely because there are so many who fall outside, and who need help. That target correction will continue. We also see the same target correction on a number of other fields, for example. on the residential area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e225	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e229	The announcement of a well-functioning labour market in the 21st century has a red thread in it, namely that the Government will have a labour market policy that will increase privatisation, poorer and fewer areas of action, lower benefits for the unemployed and a weakening of professional rights for workers. This market liberalist thinking is to stem the fact that more and more people are falling out of the labour market, that the number of reintroduction cases is rising, and that the number of unaccompanied pathways is increasing. Furthermore, the number of unemployed is high according to Norwegian conditions, and last but not least: the absence of sickness is stable high, which at the same time gives an indication that the negative developments in this area will not stop with the first. My claim is that the medicine of the Government is too much influenced by measures that will provide more poverty, poorer follow-up of the unemployed and probably even more sick people than we have today. I will come back to this. In the message, the Government says that they want to strengthen the working line in relation to the social security line of the working people – and possibly for other groups as well. This isn't hard to agree with, but I can't see that the government is taking up this challenge and so this challenge is taking it seriously enough. The wrapper around the workline can quickly become a flake, and has become so in many cases. It's not enough to express a desire for people to work and to support themselves through it, saying that a bet on the taskbar. The geometry must have a content and be a sun-ready alternative to inactivity. The Labour Party believes that a policy consisting of a number of elements will give more employment opportunities. Aetat's on a lot of competence devoted to getting people to work. It is about skills in clarifying needs, guidance, knowledge of the labour market, contact with employers, provision of measures, knowledge of occupation and education and of legislation relating to the provision of services for the maintenance of life. The overall competence is a supporting function and a means to implement the taskbar, but the content itself is given by the policy that is always being pursued. The unemployed need rapid and good assistance for clarification, guidance, action and communication, as well as financial security for their homes and homes, while continuing to enter the labour market. For this reason, it is important that employment becomes more inclusive and that sick leave should be prevented to a much greater extent than it is today. Such a platform is, in our opinion, a much better starting point to say that one is really busy on the workline. In the early 1990s, the OECD recommended its Member States to organise their labour market policies in Norway. The OECD emphasises that the Norwegian Labour Market Act was very effective because it had full control of the four key functions: Day money, action, dissemination and re-introduction. The arguments included: such knowledge provided both transparency and full control, but also good efficiency. I have reason to believe that these relationships have not changed to a particular extent. The government and the majority of the population have a vision of making the labour market as self-regulatory as possible. This means that the labour market itself is to be settled without such a great deal of involvement of the governing powers. This is an expression of a desire to allow the market to operate freely, with the consequences that this will have. Similarly, the Government and the majority claim that in a well-functioning labour market employers and jobseekers will find each other without the involvement of the public in the connection itself. This must be seen as a desire for everyone to be kind and approach each other – and for peace to exist on earth. It cannot be interpreted at other times. One of the most important factors that makes Norway a welfare state is the effort made by the government to ensure low unemployment. In addition, the Norwegian trade union movement has taken a strong focus on the fight against unemployment. They have demonstrated this through the solidarity option and through contributions to ensuring that the political will has been in place to take active action in times of high unemployment. My claim is that the will of the government to intervene in the labour market has been ours and should continue to be a commitment to high professional participation, low unemployment and low poverty. No one should tell me that a self-regulated labour market takes social care. Market forces will, on the contrary, use and throw labour at people's skills and performance. As a result, there is a great danger that older workers, sick people, disabled people, young people without education, immigrants and perhaps even more groups will have problems getting to work or retaining their jobs. One should be aware that these groups represent a great deal of human beings, and if the Government Party and the Progress Party seriously believe that the labour market will be able to regulate itself freely, the result will probably be a major deterioration in today's situation. All parties should have the aim that everyone who wants to do so should have a job to do, and that anyone who wants to take advantage of the necessary means to achieve that goal must have the opportunity to do so. The Labour Party and the Left are blamed by its political opponents for being against renewal, against reform and against change. I think it is alarming that the Council of State Meyer in today's VG has a reading post where he goes to the left-hand side of Norwegian policy: ‘More of what has not worked is the answer from the opposition side when they systematically vote against any proposal to get people to work, rather than being passive recipients of social security schemes.’ And on the other hand, ‘The complexity of the challenges we face indicates the need for innovation. Both Jens Stoltenberg and Kristin Halvorsen have so far lacked this ability for innovation." I have to say that this is quite freshly indicated now in the cold water of the revised budget and the proposal that the Government made, where one had cut in research and development, in innovation, in innovation Norway, in action areas, in changes in the legislation on permitting the worse, etc. So we have a Minister of Industry who says that the suitcase is empty. This is historyless! The vision and the news must be that society must help to support those who do not manage – and those who need it the most. The Government Party and the Progress Party want reforms to go back decades, back to the time before the movement of labour for a welfare state for all. Everyone who's read history knows what it was then. At that time, market forces were in place, and the care was the answer for those who did not act on their own. Usage and renewal are not reverse developments. The same party demonstrated the same hold when they cut the daily money of those who went unemployed. There is no doubt that cut-offs in daily money have led many to a more difficult economic situation, where they become clients rather than job seekers. It is a bad argument to say that one has great concern for the weakest, while at the same time pursuing a policy that creates more of them. It is no accident that we need reforms and adaptations to the reality of the day. Many reforms have been carried out and others have to be taken, but the Labour Party's answers can never be the same as the Government's answers. Destroying the welfare state instead of reforming it will become another’s project – not ours. The government and the majority want to make Aetat a stockbroker and leave it to the market to produce the services in question. This is a trend we have seen since the government took over Bondevik II. More and more tasks are still being laid out on offer. Such a policy makes the competence of Aetat confused. Thus, after some time the initial competence will no longer exist, and the ability to make qualitative good decisions will be weakened. This is, in our opinion, equivalent to destroying a good and solid professional environment, and of course in harmony with the big business message about a more self-regulating labour market. This and the whole of the staging message say no to the working party. We want to strengthen Aetat as a competence base for labour market policy, set up several action areas and improve daily pay. In addition, we will introduce a youth guarantee for all under 25 years of age and establish a long-term unemployment guarantee that has been available for two years, increase the government contribution to apprenticeships, establish more training jobs in the public sector and, not least, strengthen the right to work and follow up the IA agreements. I will further address the relationship with the labour market companies in my post. The government says in the message that they want to facilitate an increase in the number of permanent job creations over the years to come. This is the measure VTA, where participants are disadvantaged and receive a symbolic salary. The use of AMB, i.e. labour market enterprises, is, after all, more controversial today, and we may face major changes and challenges here. I know that there can be a debate about having an AMB system, or about the tasks they carry out, on offer. I would like to make it clear that these companies provide about 20 000 job-seekers each year. A large part of the funds forreduction measures are currently being used on screen measures, much of which goes to AMB. I understand that this is perceived as a structural problem in Aetat, by making the part of the screen measures too heavy compared to so-called integrated measures. Although AMB companies have done a good job by streamlining and renewing themselves in recent years, this is clearly not enough. It is claimed that costs are too high. Here, however, one should also be aware that pay for the action participants in Phase 2 is being financed over the top. 1594, while life support goes beyond other budgets. This may not be the problem for Aetat when they express a desire for something more freer use of funds? The AMB provides a concept that can hardly be replaced if it is dropped. They have a solid practical professional competence. They've appointed a lot of employees who only work on resettlement. They've added one per. 5th Action Participants, and they pay the tariff quota to the Action Participants in Phases 2 and 3. I've heard a lot of arguments that you're going to be stuck in the action if you're thinking too much. This is a known argument, both from the Government and from Aetat. While this may be discussed, it is also important to have a pay-off that allows policy-holders to cope financially during the period of action, so that they do not become social clients as well. Exploiting AMB's responsibilities on offer may provide short-term financial savings on Aetat's budget, but at the same time this will lead to an increase in the cost of social security when the enterprise no longer pays the employees. The savings can provide room for increased numbers of action places, the wage gap disappears, and the individual is likely to be shorter in action. But there is also little doubt that we get a much worse offer for the users. Suppliers of more or less serious measures will pop up like toad hats, and they will not have them to help with strong re-entry skills. Furthermore, such private providers will hunt for surplus that they can return to their own pockets, unlike the AMB, which controls all excesses to the company. Of course, there may be a need to develop and streamline labour market enterprises as well, but to remove the AMB as a system would be to shoot itself in the foot when it comes to the practical and targeted work carried out by these enterprises. I would also like to remind you that these companies operate with many other measures, including for the disabled, where the main objective of most people is to get people into the usual working life. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the project Work Life Phone. Mental Health and the Labour Inspectorate are in the process of completing the cooperation project Phone for Work. I am aware that the Ministry has received a new application to extend the scheme for three new years. A large majority in the committee believe that this telephone service is important in today's working life, and asks the government to ensure that the work-life phone can be further driven, as requested. I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on this later in the debate on how the Ministry intends to handle this application.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e294	I am concerned with increasing user orientation in public services. The Government Parties state in a note that they agree that user involvement is strengthened by obtaining legal rights for users of labour market services to participate in the planning and evaluation of Aetat services. This will strengthen the position of users in Aetat and will provide more room for local adaptations according to the needs of users. This means that organisation and task management could vary from office to office. It will provide better individual service and may increase the possibility of faster job transition for the individual. In a note, the working party is more concerned about the need to initiate user involvement at the system level in Aetat. How does the representative Upbebøen Hansen see that user involvement at the system level can best be achieved? And who, in the view of the representative, is responsible for meeting the diverse needs of users at system level?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e301	I don't think anyone here in this room is against getting users involved in a democratic process to do things for themselves and for their own good. When it comes to user involvement, my claim is that the party that I represent, and also the other party on the left, has been a driver for this. We are now discussing a growth report on the labour market in the 21st century. This means that one should have views, thoughts and ideas about how the labour market should work for everyone, both for those in the labour market and for people looking for the labour market. In this context, it is also important to take a closer look at the discussion on how to improve user involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e310	The representative, Oppebøen Hansen, was in his intervention concerned with welfare schemes, regulations in the labour market and a high degree of professional participation. It is such that more and more people fall outside the ordinary labour market by increasing sick leave and increasing disability access. Of course, all batches are concerned with slowing down and reverseing that development. In 2001, the Stoltenberg Government concluded an agreement with the social partners on a more inclusive working life, this IA agreement, which will last until 2005. Now we see that sick leave has not gone down. The objectives of the IA Agreement have not been met. Then one might ask: Why does the IA agreement not work after the intentions, in the view of the Workers' Party, and what will the Workers' Party do if sick leave continues to increase further after the IA agreement expires in 2005? Will the Workers' Party just stick your head in the sand, or what do you want to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e319	The representative Torbjørn Andersen represents a party that wants to weaken its employees' rights. The Progress Party wants to make the labour market more self-regulatory, and they want to extend the use of temporary employment, i.e. a market liberalist labour market. In that context, I still agree with the representative that it is important to bring down the sick leave. It was the intention when the IA agreement was signed on 3 October 2001. I believe that the government may have been too weak to introduce measures to reduce sick leave. We have a municipal minister who calls the IA agreements "voodoo", and as I see it from the government's side, they don't want to take this agreement seriously enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e326	The Labour Party has a long and proud tradition of introducing political guarantees. Health guarantees, such as: processing guarantees have proved to be anything but a success. This time, the Labour Party is trying, well to notice now in opposition, to introduce a youth guarantee, the same youth guarantee as their own finance minister in the mid-1990s said was a bad idea. The Working Party promoted this as a Document No. Eighteen last year. The experience gained from the intensified youth effort between 20 and 24 in the previous low economic cycle has now led to reduced geographical mobility and reduced mobility in that age group. The expectations of the unemployed in this group that they would be offered after six months also led to the likelihood that, in some cases, labour market measures delayed the transition of the participant to normal education or work. The Labour Party does not see these problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e333	A very large number of young people today face a closed door when they meet the workplace. The second truth is that unemployment is increasing quite a month among young people between the ages of 20 and 24. It is important not to get caught up in unemployment among young people, and therefore the Labour Party is taking an initiative towards this group: if you have been out of work for more than six months without a follow-up offer, you should be guaranteed either challenge, apprenticeship, job or action. It needs to be seen in context, as a heightening of competence in which young people themselves can be motivated on their own initiative, through training and training, to search for employment. The Labour Party hopes that we will be able to obtain the benefit of such a proposal in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e340	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e343	The road to high levels of public and private welfare and prosperity in Norway will always go through the ability of the people to work in the labour market. For this reason, we are very dependent on being able to maintain an efficient and functioning national labour market for the future. The fact that about 85 pst. the country's national wealth consists of our overall labour force, making very clear the importance of having a conscious policy for a well-functioning labour market. The value of the labour force is estimated to be 15 times higher than that of the oil industry, and the labour force is therefore of vital and crucial importance for many important areas of society, such as welfare benefits, general well-being, the quality of life of individuals and the ability to realise itself through education and vocational training. But we also know that many of the jobs we're going to base on our future prosperity and well-being are, in fact, not yet created, and there are major challenges here. The Norwegian labour market and industry are in a process of continuous change in which old traditional jobs disappear and new industries and jobs are established. This permanent natural transition process in the business and labour markets is important and will continue into the future. From this perspective, it becomes very important to design national framework conditions that stimulate and provide room for transformation, innovation and innovation, skills development, productivity and value creation in the Norwegian business and labour markets. We must realize that we cannot be locked in a notion that it is possible to preserve everything that has always been, in terms of public welfare and professional rights in the Norwegian labour market. There is little doubt that everything from professional rights and tax policies to public welfare benefits will have to be put under scrutiny and examined in the future and that some adjustments in these areas may become relevant. Today we have to note that some developments in the Norwegian labour market have been somewhat alarming in recent years. No political party or social partner can be indifferent to the increase in disability access, the dramatic increase in sick leave and persistently high unemployment. It is worrying to note that the total number of people outside the labour market is increasing. It can't go on like this. This will have major negative social consequences if we do not manage to reverse this trend. Preventing exclusion from the labour market represents an important future challenge for the Norwegian labour market. Norway has a workforce of 2.4 million. However, in relation to the population and the participation rate, Norway is at a rather good time. But here, as mentioned, there will be major challenges in the future, which we cannot in any way ignore. The future labour market will be a great deal of that a sufficient number of new jobs need to be created to replace those disappearing. Since 1970, Norway has been strongly deindustrialised. Today, we have more disadvantaged people than we have industrial workers in Norway. In 2001, the industrial share of GDP was below 10 pst. Few other countries have had similar strong deindustrialisation. So we haven't succeeded that far enough, as we should, in compensating for the loss of industrial jobs with new growth industries. Much of the growth in employment in recent years has occurred in the public sector, not in the private sector. Despite large state capital surpluses, we do not have the power to develop effective financing systems that support innovative activities, nor have we developed new, large growth industries as a substitute for the decline of industrial jobs in Norway. Today, large parts of our oil wealth are placed in foreign enterprises and generate growth in other countries, while our national wealth cannot be used for domestic investment to create new growth industries and jobs in Norway. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get This inability of the country to make better use of its financial strength by creating new jobs in Norway thus provides less basis for optimism in terms of our nation's future ability to achieve full employment and high value creation. Another very important prerequisite for a well-functioning labour market is good infrastructure. Norway needs better infrastructure in the form of a much better road network in order to reduce the geographic distance constraints that exist. Using a larger proportion of the country’s financial surplus to invest in a better road network is a very effective measure to facilitate a well-functioning business and labour market in Norway. In this way, the Procedural Party is in complete ignorance that there is so little investment in a more efficient transport system in the form of a better road network in Norway. There's still a big national promise to be made here. A well-developed transport system is an important framework for a well-functioning labour market. The Progress Party believes that we must have a strategy for what the labour force should be doing in practice. The Progress Party believes that employment must be concentrated mainly on contributing profitable, productive and value-creating work. Creating artificial jobs in the public sector or subsidising specific industries in a way that creates overproduction and overemployment is a very unfortunate use of the labour force. In an increasingly globalised world characterised by market orientation, internationalisation and liberalisation, our national labour market will be constantly marked by change and international competitive pressure. The countries that can distinguish between the best conditions for capital investment and production will be the winners of the future in the competition for job creation. In the future, Norway will not be able to afford to have a strange, high tax and tax level or a curious, strict environmental regulation that removes the foundations of employment and production in Norway. However, Norwegian wage and cost levels will not be a competitive advantage for Norway in the foreseeable future, but too large a difference in cost levels compared to our trading partners should not be too competitive. The country’s main strategy for maintaining national value creation and high employment in the future is to focus on research, development and education, focusing on quality and competence. The old industrial nations of the Western world are today in the process of being competitive by people-rich low-cost countries such as China and India. This is a country with a staggering economic growth, targeting schools, education, development and research. In addition, these countries have almost unlimited access to cheap labour. These countries have also little developed expensive welfare schemes. The population is growing strongly, the population is relatively young, and there is a low proportion of older people. In the West, it's the opposite. Population growth has stagnated in western countries, while the ageing wave is in the process of inwards, including Norway. There is little doubt that, as a nation, we are facing very wide-ranging problems in meeting all of these challenges that we now see are becoming increasingly global. From 1972 to now, employment in Norway has increased by a total of 650 000, while the number of pensioners increased by only 280 000. But over the next 50 years, it's going to be the opposite. This doubles the number of old-age pensioners, to approx. 1.3 million, while the labour force is expected to increase by only 300,000. So we see major structural changes in demographic and employment developments in the future. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the use of high-technology and productive enterprises, with value-added jobs, by slowing down growth and employment in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e375	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e379	The Progress Party is united with the Right and Christian People's Party in the desire for the most flexible and self-regulatory labour market. At the same time, we see increasing competition and market pressure, which means that the labour market is getting tougher and tighter. There's more of them going to be eroded, and we're seeing a sharp increase in the number of misfits. In many occupational groups, disability and early retirement are now the most common means of leaving the labour market. What are the consequences of Andersen’s representative thinking about the absence of sick leave and disability when the labour market is to be as self-regulatory as possible? Does the representative believe that the labour market will be more or less inclusive when he/she is a self-regulatory labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e386	It is enough that the Progress Party strongly disagrees with the Labour Party, which seems to believe that it is best to regulate, govern and control business and labour market as much as possible. Here, there is a difference in the way we look at a modern labour market policy. After hearing the introduction to Opbebøen Hansen earlier today, it is clear that I perceive much of what the Workers' Party stands for, such as the labour market policy of the past and not the labour market policy of the future. We are united with the Right and the other government parties in the view that a self-regulatory labour market without too many public intervention will be the most flexible option in the future labour market, and what will best capture the migration needs that we are still seeing in the Norwegian labour market and industry due to globalisation, internationalisation and competition from other countries. In fact, I don't think there is any way out of having and facilitating a flexible, self-regulating and dynamic labour market in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e393	I will leave it to you that the Progress Party clearly believes that both the welfare state and the orderly pay and employment conditions in Norway have always been there. Such a lack of history is rare to meet. Nor do they understand that the monetary policy they stand for, which was conducted in Norway for a long time, with a one-sided focus on price increases and not on unemployment and the price of crowns, destroyed thousands of industrial workplaces in Norway. I'll leave it, but focus on what the Progress Party is occasionally on, and that's when it comes to helping the so-called worthy ones. In the case of people with disabilities, we know that there is a greater chance of them coming to work the longer the period of vocational retraining. It shows Aeta's own studies. If you have been taking action for three to five years, the chance of getting a job is 61 pst, while for those who have not taken this long, the rate is 31 pst. Can the Progress Party provide one reasonable explanation as to why they have been involved in tightening up these rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e400	There is no doubt that there are major differences between the SV and the Progress Party in key areas of labour market policy. However, for the most part, in the case of people with disabilities, the Progress Party is an absolute supporter for introducing measures to help them enter the labour market. I do not particularly appreciate this line, because I believe that it is a party that has stood on the barricades to help the disabled and to return them to normal working life or other more organized jobs, it is the Progress Party, in the front row. In fact, I do not fully understand what the representative means by his line in this area. I think it is more important to organise a labour market that has and can offer jobs, so that everyone gets a real alternative in the ordinary labour market, and so that we avoid the high degree of unemployment we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e409	As the Centre Party is concerned about the increasing absence of sick people, the party is progressing. All reports show that efforts to ensure fewer sick people must be made primarily at work. Only 23 pst. of the private enterprises have concluded an IA agreement. A report shows that companies are more concerned with conversion and downgrading than with including more. The same is happening in municipalities and hospitals, where more and more people have to do more work. There is no way to focus so much on interventions for individuals. The current pressure for privatisation and postponing competition reinforces such a development. Isn't it really to stick your head in the sand to focus one-sidedly on the pathology?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e416	The representative of Meltveit Kleppa of the Central Party claimed that privatisation and competitive outsourcing strengthen sick leave. I must say that I absolutely do not agree with the representative in this area. It is worth remembering that we have an active competition policy and a competition law for the whole of private business, and it should only be lacking if the public sector too should withstand the same competitive outlook that one has to endure and has had to endure throughout all years in the private sector. So what was said here from the representative of the Central Party, I actually completely disagree. I really don't think competition and maybe some sort of privatisation is the main explanation that we see it in part very high sick leave that we have in the municipalities and in the public sector today. I certainly don't think the explanation is there. It's somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e426	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e429	First, I would like to address the suggestions in the vote. A well-functioning labour market or a good and sustainable society is, of course, two different approaches to the big issue we are dealing with today. For SV, it is important to stress that we want the objective to be a good and sustainable society. A market is good at providing us with goods and services, but it cannot solve major societal challenges. The welfare state is new, it is a very modern phenomenon. The pure market governance and mercantilism flagged so high on the right are actually the old-fashioned solutions that were abandoned, because they didn't produce a good result for people most or for business. Therefore, there is a need for innovation from the right in Norwegian policy where one is willing to take over the fact that Norway is actually one of the best countries with a very high productivity, thanks to a well-functioning welfare society, which has set up a large part of the most important resource we have, namely the labour force, to contribute to the best both for itself and for the majority. The government, with its proposal, makes it clear that it wishes, for example: a much larger stretch of the team in terms of pay differentials, it wants more power for those who have large capital in their backs, the well-educated and the healthy, and it wants tougher conditions for unskilled and less able to stand with others in the same situation and thus get a little more balance of power. The result of this will be a much more two-part labour market, a labour market where you have all the opportunities, of course, and great opportunities for those with good health and high levels of education, but where there will be several tougher opportunities for many others. SV thinks it's a wrong strategy. We believe that society as a whole will be poorer by it, and that it is much wiser to bet on a strategy with which everyone is promised. Cut into benefits, more rules, less opportunities for customization is the government's recipe. So people have to work more for lower wages, in more precarious jobs, at more uncomfortable times and with less support from the trade union movement. And people don't get healthy or get a job getting more insecure and poor, according to SV. It's true that we live in a globalized time, and that we are under pressure in all of these areas. Then, of course, the question is whether we're going to lay flat for this, or whether we're going to fight for what we think is right, and what we think is good for the country. How to create and distribute values in a global and market liberalised turboeconomy is a big question. Are there counter strategies, and is there political will to use them? Globalisation is not just a new thing and not just a negative thing. The new is the massive deregulation of financial markets and the enormous strengthening of financial capital at the expense of industrial and commercial capital and at the expense of countries' ability to make their own choices. The consequence of this is a marked change in market conditions. Our strategy towards this must be to keep up the values, that everyone is equally worth and therefore has equal rights to participate both in society and in well-being. The rational thing about it is that such a strategy will also give us the most resources when we're going to produce. Our strategy must be to bet hard on more education and research. It is a major contribution that we can make that is not affected by rules on distortions of competition, but that it may be difficult to finance if one is forced to reduce taxes further. Human beings are far more important than oil, and we don't know which jobs are going to give us livelihoods in 20 years. Therefore, SV has considered that the focus is on children and young people. The school should be so good that not a single talent is lost, not one apprenticeship is killed, and one goes out of school with faith in himself seas and wants to learn more. Students should leave school more equally in terms of being able to succeed in their own lives than when they came in. It's not always like that today, because school reproduces inequality, and it's an unacceptable loss both for individuals and for society. Research and development will be crucial to our success in the future. The private sector must contribute more, but so must the State. On the world scale, Norway will always be a small country, where most enterprises are small. Therefore, the State must assume a far greater responsibility for contributing to research than it is doing today. SV has been a strong champion for several years to contribute both to research and innovation. Unfortunately, the right-hand side moves in the other direction. There are several suggestions and comments in the vote to which there might be reason to come back. I've been in a couple of lines at the point of recovery, and I'll say a little bit more about it. One of the really sad suggestions made by this government is to tighten up the rules that prevent individual adaptation of the reintroduction cycle. For example, one seat. This pointless limit of three years and a very little urge now, as we now know from practice it is almost impossible to get through to get a longer run. We know that it's a fit that works. All the studies show that this works, and why on a global scale does this government not trust that Aetate naval, which is to approve the reconnaissance courses, is able to make this individual assessment, but must make some rules so that it becomes difficult for those who have the most difficulty? There can be no sense in having such rules, since it works when we are able to adapt the courses of education and competence to the individual. SV has also been very concerned about issues such as equal pay and working time in this setting. Equal pay is very important. We still see in Norway that there is a great difference between women’s wages and men’s wages. There's no reason for it to be. It's a theme that we think the market is not the only thing to regulate away. And that's a question of justice. The problem is that the right-hand side clearly seems to be fine. It doesn't seem like SV. It is quite clear that the public sector's own wage and working conditions will be very crucial for our success. With regard to inclusive working life, SV, together with other parties on the left, has arranged for the public sector to assume a maritime responsibility for hiring people with health problems. The government didn't want to be in on that. We have to set a goal, because somewhere people have to work. If you have 30 pst. the ability to work, someone must be willing to hire you. If the public in the state and the municipality don't have it, then who in the world is going to do it? It's completely impossible to understand. The only message this government has given, for example: to the municipal sector, are: Find someone to quit, streamline, rationalise, cut off all the dead meat. That means that there is no work left for those who have a little to work with. Nobody in the local government sector can now take on the job of making sure that some of those who are outside the labour market get a place there again. Regarding the issue of a 6-hour day, I would just like to point out that Toyota's giant workshop in Gothenburg has tried this with a 6-hour day. They got sick leave down by 10 pst., productivity increased by 40 pst., and earnings increased by 23 pst. I called and checked it because I don't always trust what's in the VG. They could confirm that this was the case. In Sweden, election rates are now e.g. The hospital companies of this factory to look at this, because there can be nothing that can be rejected without further delay, when one sees that the pressure on the workers causes people to become ill and dissatisfied with it. I have to say that I am very surprised that there is no greater interest in carrying out any such attempts, which could have made everyone earn more, that people were less sick and perhaps could stand by retirement age. It's very hard to understand that it's going to be so dramaticly dangerous, when the results speak their clear language.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e455	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e460	There are few examples of the real functioning of politician-driven markets. When you adapt public support schemes to everyone, you spend extra money on those who manage themselves. When you measure the arrangements for those who don't manage themselves, you get more money for those who need help. This government is choosing solutions that work. The main focus is to get people to work. In the case of temporary employment, it is obvious that permanent employment is better than temporary employment, but temporary employment is a means of getting people into the labour market, people who had initially been out of the labour market. It will always be better to be temporarily employed than not employed. Tax relief provides profitable businesses. Wage businesses look after people, unprofitable businesses don't. The TaxFUNN scheme is one of the arrangements that this government has put in place that give research a chance in businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e470	No, this government does not focus on targeted actions for those who need it the most. This government has put Norway's record in tax booklets for those who need it least. This government has given five times as much in tax relief to e.g. people like the representative Gitmark and myself and to those who serve even much more, than what it has given to those who need it the most. One of the examples I've told you about several times today is a cut where 260 million. kr was taken from vocational training. These are people without a job, who are healthy. It's well this then that's going to be the general broad arrangements of those who can handle the sea. No, this is just getting too stupid. So it's like there's a lot of the arrangements that are targeted at those who need it most as much as, among other things. SV has put forward proposals on which this government is completely consistent because they would prefer to have even more money for tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e477	In his post, the representative attacked Karin Andersen from the SV right-hand side for lack of news. She does, which represents a party that absolutely stands for lack of innovation. I think it is sensational that she says that the right-hand side of Norwegian policy represents a lack of innovation in labour market policy and in industrial policy. Once again, SV withdraws from the hat this old proposal on the 6-hour working day. It was pointed out by an example from the representative from the Chair here that this must obviously be very successful. I have a few questions: Is SV saying that there will be a shortage of labour in the future? What would that possibly mean if everyone were to go into the 6-hour day? Has SV calculated the cost of the 6-hour working day and the costs incurred by the Norwegian industry and the Norwegian labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e491	Work in Norway has been significantly cut over the last hundred years. At the same time, productivity has increased significantly. That is a very important recognition, which I believe the Progress Party should take inwards. Yes, it is true that when we write out, there will be a labour shortage in Norway. That's one of the reasons why we think we need to have a working life that takes less health from people and makes people sick and unhappily tired long before retirement. This is why we take these examples from this very large factory in Sweden, which shows that profits increased and sick leave decreased. All the arrows pointed in the positive and the right direction. That means that you don't actually lose it, but you win, and that means that we have a lot more people who can take advantage of the labour force all their lives. In addition, SV is much less anxious about work immigration than the Progress Party is.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e500	SV is often concerned about Norwegian jobs in Norwegian hands. Norwegian companies in Norwegian hands demand Norwegian capital. Does it not mean, then, that if you are not to have a complete state labour market, in other words, that all enterprises are on state hands, then you have to do something about capital taxes, wealth taxes and dividends tax in that way? The government says: We want Norwegian jobs on Norwegian hands, and we add up to a capital tax that makes it more possible. So over to my main question: can SV answer whether their tax increases alone will result in fewer or more unemployed people? With regard to the 6-hour day – I understand that I am jumping a little from theme to theme – there are no formal obstacles in Norway so that individual companies can pay their employees to work six hours as if they had worked eight hours per day. day(s) If this is so profitable, Norwegian companies should follow suit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e509	The last representative of Skovholt Gitmark said now, I thought I was encouraging. That means that even the Right can be willing to look at this – and not have some kind of ideological resistance to this that they have had to now, where they have set up some calculations to scare – simply because it should make sense when you look at these results! Therefore, the public sector should also be able to participate in this. On several occasions SV has made suggestions that a pot should be set aside to try some attempts at this, to see if it is successful. Because there is no doubt that these are expenditures that are burdensome, and no doubt that there are bad policies that take health from people. We should agree on that. I don't have time to go through all these tax rules now, but I want to point out that SV has made proposals for better depreciation rules in business that would matter to business, for some of the things that are most important to them, namely that they can invest in modern equipment. In addition, SV has agreed to a research grant scheme, which has been fully parallel to the SkattenFUNN scheme, only to meet those companies that serve little.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e518	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e521	Norway is one of the world’s countries with the least differences between the poor and the rich. We have relatively high employment and relatively low unemployment. Norway, in fact, is the world's world's best country to live in. That's not how it sounds when the opposition expresses itself. That's what I think is rather sad, because it spreads a sort of attitude among the people most so that even students at our universities – I've experienced – perceive that now everything is bad, now goes a lot crazy, and unemployment exceeds the countries we normally compare with. It's not real, and the Christian People's Party will work for, and is confident that it won't be. The fight against unemployment is the Christian People's Party and the Government's priority number one. In addition, we want to create a labour market where we want to reduce the number of production processes. It is important to us that we use the working environment of the population, including the disabled, and not least seniority must be valued more in the future. Then we have to have room for greater flexibility between social security and work, and between care and pay. Many systems are too square, or are being used for squares today. I have received countless stories where the part-time job or short-term exposure could not be combined with the social security benefits. One must bet on one or the other, and then choose a security in security, of course, when a person is not quite strong and is fully capable of working. We cannot adopt workplaces. They are created by founders and people with the instigation and ability to create. Society needs to make it possible for such people to concentrate on creating a job for themselves and others. The fact that politicians are going into and regulate the labour market in detail is a derailment, even though it seems surprising to me that the left side here, including the Centre Party, means it. The responsibility of society is to take responsibility for those who are not automatically included and to create gateways for them. It's a formidable task, and it always has. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party argue in a strange way. They contrast the broad side and, in my opinion, describe a caricature of a society that should kind of be what the government is drawing, a society that, in my view, resembles England during the laissez faire period. It's going to be their bill. Christian People's Party sees that priority no. 1 to ensure the proper functioning of the labour market is that there are actually well-functioning enterprises. I would like to stress that in Norway there are a lot of jobs in small local businesses. Every day and the fate of small businesses and family businesses engage us. In fact, the main characteristic of the local small enterprise is not that it thins out its employees. But it's important that the crown price is to live with, that the interest rate is low, and that the salary level is competitive. Moreover, red tape and the form must be reduced and run on a business-related basis. Temporary addition or more flexible working time will by no means be a one-sided disadvantage for the team working for a common job in one of our over 100,000 small enterprises. Human beings are Norway's most important resource. Business owners also know that. Skillful, knowledgeable, and experienced employees will be gold worlds in the future as well. Therefore, temporary addition will be a possibility to get into a job, and hardly anything that will widen to large parts of the workbook. Demographic developments are otherwise so marked in the West, and also many other places in the world, that work capacity and willingness to work will be high in the future. In many places we see the contours of what is called the 1-2-4 society, where one child is going to care for two parents and four grandparents. And it can be pretty tough when work and children also demand their own. The intention of the Intention Agreement on an inclusive working life and the pension reform is to increase the number of older people to work longer, and there is a real need for this. It is, of course, the Christian People's Party and the Government's goal that all working people should be able to bear the brunt of life. Unemployment is resourcelessness, and the Christian People's Party is very happy that unemployment now shows a decline. It took the Bondevik II government less than three years to reverse the trend, and that's actually good. The world economy is also in a growing period that promises good for the next few years. However, it is not surprising that the number of unemployees is alarmingly high, and that there is little help in the unemployed disappearing into the poorer regions. We simply need more in order to create income for the country, to give security to the individual and well-being of those who need it. First we have to create, the side we can share. I think it is a good thing when the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre claim that the Bondevik II administration has been passive to developments in the labour market. After the Bondevik II government took over, and while one was still largely dependent on the Stoltenberg government's budget, the actual unemployment actually rose dramatically. The Bondevik II government has brought down its destructive, high interest rate. In my time as an adult, she has never been lower. The government has got control of the krone price, and it has created new optimism in the business world, including through a nutrition tax, because it is an important part of the $20 billion that has been given. And then the unemployment goes down. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the high rate of youth unemployment, and not least about the high level of unemployment among immigrants. Disability is also a major cause of unemployment. There are always weak groups that will frame you when your path is out of work. Therefore, it is high time an action plan was created to recruit people with disabilities into the public domain. And it's the Bondevik II government that does it, even though the need has been there before. At the same time, there are about 500,000 job vacancies in a year. Training and qualification are important for more people to get into the labour market. Aetat is the most important tool we have for implementing labour market policy, which is therefore not entirely left to the market. Aetate has been magnified under this government, for example. with 420 new annual works in 2003. For me, it's incomprehensible that this is described as passivity. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that we need to coordinate the services that many of the unemployed depend on. Several smaller attempts are now being made to coordinate social security, social affairs and Aetat in the first line, and the government will come back with a case in the next year. The government also requires Aetat to focus more on individual follow-up. It is absolutely necessary for more people to be sent to work more quickly. Knowing individual things, I wonder how Aetat has left many to unemployment benefit for a long time, including people who should be absolutely attractive on the labour market, and in fact that is. It is important for both the individual and for society that the period of unemployment or re-employment is as short as possible, and the Christian People's Party believes it is positive that the responsibility for re-employment is being moved to Aetat these days. Finally, I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party is occupied by organized workplaces – that they work, and that they are built in accordance with the escalation plan. Also those who will always need assistance in the work situation are people who need to be useful, and job participation increases the quality of life. Therefore, it is positive that the budget provided for several VTA companies. The Christian People's Party also sees clearly the value of the increase in the budget in action places in 2004, even with the assistance of the Labour Party, it was positive. Nevertheless, it is not possible to maintain that people with long-term education may also experience being out of work, and therefore a government is asking to evaluate more ‘trainee’ options in the public sector. Overall, public responsibility for its part of the apprenticeships must be taken into account. The supplement is good. What is at stake is attitude and responsibility. We have challenges in the labour market. We take them seriously. The goal is for the whole people to work, and the planes are the ones that work, the ones that lead to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e567	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e570	It is a long and good tradition here in the country for centrally negotiating wage agreements. The agreements are minimum wage agreements based on local schemes and adaptations. This is a system that has led to both fair distribution and productivity growth. I am therefore surprised to note that the Christian People's Party no longer believes that responsibility should be shifted to the individual workplace when it applies to wages, when it applies to working arrangements, when it applies to forms of cooperation, and when it applies to methods of addition. This must be interpreted in such a way that the Christian People's Party believes that the workers should negotiate separately. This will lead to the destruction of the central negotiations. My question to Apelthun Säle's representative is therefore: What kind of distribution does the representative see with such a change in the legal and contractual system?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e577	I am not so afraid that the LO and the other employee organisations will file the years and that everything will now be done in the individual workplace. Almost the same kind of laws that we had to make here, I have no faith that everything is laid flat by the big organizations. The advantage one has in that one at the workplace can also learn about pay and working conditions, etc. is that the person who wears the shoe knows where he prints. I have experience and background from the small businesses in the small communities where one works more like a team – it's not us and them, it's us. Then it is important, and a great advantage – when one has a salary level in Norway that is actually 35 pst. above wage levels in Sweden, and sky high above those countries that have now been given free or increased access to the EU – that one can become a few in the individual workplace to a greater extent than one host today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e583	Just a little line from my side. I could agree with much of what the representative Apelthun Seele said. The fight against unemployment is priority No. 1 for the Government. Yes, it has been for all governments up through as long as I can remember! She also said that jobs cannot be adopted, and that is quite right. So she said we're dependent on well-functioning businesses, that small businesses in small places are important. That's also quite right. So I'd like to ask, what are many of the business leaders in these small, local businesses asking for? Indeed, they demand better infrastructure, better roads, because this often constitutes a significant disincentive to competition and distance which weakens their competitiveness. And doesn't the Christian People's Party, as a government party, see that we should focus more precisely on better infrastructure in the form of better roads in this country just to strengthen Norwegian businesses and strengthen the Norwegian labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e592	It was nice to hear that the Progress Party is so united with the Christian People's Party. It's always nice to get in touch with it one minute. It is important that we facilitate the framework for the industrial structure of Norway, to a large extent a competitive industrial structure, along our coast. He's the one we're going to live off after oil and gas are exhausted. Then ask the representative if there is someone at the Christian People's Party who is asking for a better route and infrastructure. I can confirm that there are a lot of people who think we should build Norway on the road side, on infrastructure, on broadband. It's not like we're doing nothing in this field. We spend more money than anything on building these roads, and communities between the private and public sectors are also being solved a lot. It is adventurous to run in the West today in relation to ten years ago!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e601	In the last growing-up period, the Bondevik I government presented a very important and large document, the Equalizer message. Then the Christian People's Party agreed to say that it was unfortunate and wrong to increase differences in the country. Now the Christian People's Party has turned and is in favour of a policy that increases the differences, that wants greater pay differentials and more job insecurity. It is also the case that the government's policy now is that people with little should be encouraged by cutting benefits and much more pressing opportunities for benefits, while those with a lot of history should get even more, because – according to the report – they provide even more! I miss a good explanation for this great turnaround in which the Christian People's Party has participated, and which makes society go in a completely different direction than the government of Bondevik you pointed to in the Equalization Notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e608	Yes, the Christian People's Party was involved in making the noise. We were proud of it. We saw that in the cold water of Gro there were greater differences between the poor and the rich. That is why Bondevik II has also followed up with a poverty package where several hundred million dollars are spent to reach exactly those who will be affected – not the broad team of the people, but those who will be affected by poverty. I do not agree with the representative from SV that we are going in a completely different direction in our time. We've also seen, as I said in my speech, that if you're going to fight poverty, you're going to have to take care of jobs, because it's through work that people get out of poverty. Then we must also facilitate the business. We're not going to have companies with red numbers, but companies that can create new jobs and new security for the ones they've set up. This should be so everywhere in the country, including in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e615	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e618	The right to work is a fundamental right. The labour force consists of self-employed and workers. For both these groups, the economic policy is decisive for the ability to obtain adequate income and safe working conditions. Self-employed people depend on the design of industrial policy for their industry. The competitive situation is becoming more and more rigid, the market concentration is stronger. The centre party will have an offensive industrial policy. We're going to worship the nobles where Norway is good. We take a strong distance from the Government's nutritional neutrality. An ever-increasing national and international capital power and extensive societal changes make it necessary to assess the laws and regulations of wage earners. Laws, regulations and agreements between the social partners are of great importance to workers’ living conditions and opportunities to develop. Unlike the Government, the Centre Party is busy having a strong trade union that contributes to a well-organised working life in such a process of change. The centre party is concerned that increasing competition and market pressure make the labour market harder and harder. Social exclusion is an increasing problem. It is bad that there are too many people who are under-retirement and early retirement who are out of work. We are committed to a development in which the labour market is split into an A team with safe conditions of addition, a B team with chronic insecure links to the labour market and a C team with a sporadic connection at best. Traditional professional solidarity is being undermined. It becomes harder for employees to collect the forces when the employer is a multi-national group. It should be known that the Center Party is occupied by local and national ownership. We are critical of political decisions and public budgets that aim to increase the use of competitive outsourcing and privatisation. Unfortunately, the government is also here for an entirely different development. We're afraid that the particular public thing here is in favour of further tearing weak groups out of work. The rapid development of information technology opens up new opportunities for the organisation of enterprises, both within industry, service provision and primary industries. It also leads to the emergence of new professions. The relationship between individual freedom and development, life organisation, collective security and solidarity is being tested. The requirement for efficiency and conversion is increasing. There are greater demands on the ability of individual workers to develop, learn and control themselves. It may be stimulating and evolving, but at the same time may lead to early burnout, and it creates a greater degree of stress, insecurity and danger of exclusion from the labour market. A well-functioning labour market must ensure a good link between work and sleep. The danger now is that the unregulated labour market may preside over the organisation of work in the future and thus threaten established rights and protection. Right through this big message, they want a development where laws and agreements are less important. The centre party will work towards such an development. The market does not take social interest. It shows the IA agreement and the lack of results there. We are also deeply concerned about the government's lack of commitment to action against social dumping. You can see a multiple and a minority in this setting. For the Central Party, it is important to have an offensive industrial policy, with a focus on education and research, with an inclusive working life, where both young people, the elderly, the disabled and immigrants are brought in, where we have good insurance networks when it is due to reintroduction and leavencies, where we have labour market businesses, a well-functioning Aetat, where there is room for entrepreneurs who are getting attention, and where there is a good balance between the public and private sectors. It was said by Torbjørn Andersen that the plurality of the committee was a ‘glory’ of the public sector. The central party represents a vision where there should be a balance, but we thought that the municipalities and the state should take on very important tasks, which we also want to strengthen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e647	The centre party is a party with a historical connection to District Norway and thus to the tens of thousands of small farms created along land and beach. I wonder when the Center Party got such a distinctly negative view of these companies. They are expressed, for example. says that market forces will use and throw away labour, and leaving something to the labour market, i.e. to healthy people and these businesses, will be a threat to our welfare model. Now the welfare state has grown up in a mixed economy, with great freedom, among other things. on the labour market. The welfare model is not just a liquidation. How has the Center Party been so negative that ethics and social responsibility can mean something, among other things. also for our approx. 130 000 small businesses? My experience is that workers and employers are usually a team working together. Hasn't the representative Melting Group Kleppa had such experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e656	The answer to that is yes. The centre party has absolutely the experience that there are many good local companies where employees and employers make a joint effort and take care of each other. But there is actually a big difference between what was the traditional local enterprise, where the surplus was ploughed back into good welfare arrangements and other arrangements for those added and for the community, and the raw dividend policy we see today, especially from owners that are far away. In fact, I think it is very brave of Anita Apeltun Selle to stand here and praise small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts, who are in a government that has reinvigorated the Stortinget's decision when it comes to transport, which has cut into district policy and almost wiped out Innovation Norway, which has taken away municipal food funds, and which also now provides for a community economy where not all those who took care of good local policies have the possibility of doing so anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e663	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and the Center Party say that competition and pressure in the labour market are constantly pushing more out of the labour market. I'm sure that's right. But I would say that much of the pressure in working life actually stands for the public itself. To compensate for, for example: for a very high tax pressure, a high pace is being pushed forward in many industries to survive. In addition, both industry and employees are struggling to comply with the requirements of official controls — reporting requirements — to comply with detailed laws, regulations and, not least, to comply with deadlines for reporting as required by public authorities. Does the Central Party not see that there is a need for simplification in Norway, precisely to facilitate the conditions for businesses and their employees? Or is it that the Central Party does not see that there is anything in the fact that there is a need for simplification in order to ease the pressure in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e668	Shifting governments have worked on projects within ‘Simplifying Norway’. The center party agrees. We have beetroot, and we want to contribute to the simplification of something called control and supervision. Then I have to attend Torbjørn Andersen, for the first thing about tax pressure. It's not very high in Norway. If he wants to contribute to corporate taxation, he can support the Centre's proposal for exemption from working capital, i.e. those who plough their dividends back to the enterprises. Then I must also take note of what happened in Trondheim when they put out the reindeer service. If he does not know what happened, he should be involved in that report, which tells of a formidable increase in sick leave, precisely because of the postponement of competition and privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e678	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e681	Globalisation and internationalisation have led to more vulnerable industries than before. The free movement of services involving a job has led to more industries than before being exposed to competition. Despite large deficits in government budgets, other countries do what they can to protect their business life, but not Norway. Here we are so rich that jobs, we can't afford that. I've been wondering a little about how this madness started. Was it in 1997, when Stoltenberg claimed that nurses did not get out of the boreholes, and that it was therefore necessary to free labour from other sectors in order to get enough in the health sector? If we go back to the Question Time on 24 March 1999, then Minister of Finance Restad followed up by claiming that the structural unemployment in the yard industry alone was not negative, because there were no hands in the care professions. In spring 2001, the then Kosmo State Council wanted to re-train 6 000 vacant engineers and road workers to nurses, rather than to put available hands and machines into work with the necessary maintenance and development of the road network, which had already had a welfare gap of approx. 10 billion kroner. When the government says they're busy with full employment, it has little credibility, to say it carefully. At the right, choices were made to free labour through targeted measures. This should be done in the private sector through changes from industry-related to industry-neutral competition frameworks, and in the public sector through competitive outsourcing, reorganisation and efficiency improvement. But unlike other politicians, the Right did not have any vision of what the released labour force would be used for. The right has reached its application goals. Between 17 000 and 20 000 industrial workplaces have been laid down, teachers and nurses are announced and municipal trade unions are laid down, and while foreign contractors occupy Norwegian construction sites, the Labour Inspectorate is laying down several offices in central areas, despite the fact that it has been demonstrated that foreign workers, for example: in the construction industry, has a relaxed relationship with the Norwegian work environment law, so to speak. According to the figures provided by the Swedish Handicap Association, competitive outsourcing, conversion and efficiency have led to between 20 000 and 30 000 disabled people working in 2001 being out of work and on social security. The reorganisation processes seek to avoid as far as possible redundancies. Instead, healthy and labour-intensive people are offered final packages and early retirement. If the Government has a real desire for an extension of work activity and for more job-seekers to be employed, it is paradoxical that planned framework-led reorganisations have a sharp counter-effect, i.e. lower and lower retirement ages and more on disability benefits. The Progress Party, like the Right, will have a free and unregulated market-driven labour market, but is also concerned that Norway will be stuck in the so-called commodity clamp. To this end, they will sell the renewable value added base to the highest bidder. It concerns both power plants, fish quotas and farms — the basis for our main non-oil value added areas, and areas where the use of high Norwegian competence has so far resulted in a high return on workers, businesses and society. The Christian People's Party and the Left follow up, as long as the Christian People's Party is allowed to use the state treasury as if it were the magistrate's collector, and the Left gets fulfilled its wishes for higher power prices and higher transport costs through an increasingly dense forest of toll missions. All parties, including the Coastal Party, agree that the human resources are the most valuable resources we have. However, we cannot use this resource at political discretion, through framework-driven reorganisations of working life. There is a high level of dehulling of people who, for various reasons, cannot be relocated without further delay, resulting in considerable losses of valuable jobs. From the government, we have recently heard that the trend of deflagrating Norwegian jobs is about to turn around. Increased profitability and optimism will lead to new employment. But Hydro's warning of the phase-out of 800 jobs in the aluminium industry shows the opposite trend. Despite the fact that the shareholders have been able to draw tax-free returns over the last few years, and despite the company’s profits being very good, no investment is made in Norway. The uncertainty about Norwegian willingness to ensure long-term framework conditions, which are enough force at a reasonable price, weighs more heavily. [[The President clubs.]] The downkeep shall as far as possible...
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e694	In many countries, there is a debate about how the labour market works. We see that the right-hand side will continuously see that the labour market will function more like other markets, with the freer purchase and sale of services, or a ‘self-regulating labour market’, as it is called in the notice, while the parties on the left and the centre believe that authorities and trade unions must have the means to safeguard employees’ rights. In a more pure form, this becomes a distinction between a Nordic model of work and welfare and a more Americanised model of work and welfare, with greater differences and a less inclusive working life. I note that our Norwegian dismissal protection means that employees cannot be treated arbitrarily and unfairly by the employers. I also find that our overtime legislation has set limits to preventing unfair pressure from employers. But this government has made it easier for employers to push employees to work overtime. Overtime rules have changed as we know. And this government will weaken the protection against dismissal. This will gradually lead to the brutalisation of Norwegian working life. In my view, the most important example is the discussion of temporary employment. This is not a question of whether some unemployed young people are getting a job. It is about the structure of Norwegian employment. If we allow for increased use of temporary employment, we can see a structural change, such as: have seen in Spain, where enterprises reduce the number of permanent employees to a minimum and then meet the need beyond temporary staff. Then it is important to remember that in Norway about 90pst. by permanent staff. This does not mean that they cannot be cancelled, but the employer must have a valid reason to do so. The situation of a temporary employee is quite different. Of course, if you are afraid of not extending your employment, you are weaker compared to the employer. It'll be easier to take advantage of. There will be less provision of training. It becomes more difficult to earn a basis for sick pay, maternity benefits and daily allowances, and, of course, you have less financial security, both directly by not knowing when your employment is going out, and indirectly by saying that it is. can be difficult to obtain when you want to establish. The Labour Party does not want Norway to develop in this way. Therefore, we say no to opening up for increased use of temporary employment. Another important feature of the Norwegian and Nordic models is an active public policy to ensure work for all. Here, too, we see obvious differences. Since Bondevik and Foss took over the government offices, there have been 80,000 new jobs in the queue outside the employment offices – 80,000 more who are worried about how they can pay the next instalment on the mortgage, and who ask why no one needs them. The government's response has been to cut the unemployment benefit by up to NOK 25 000 per year. years. There is a clear danger that unemployment may get stuck at a higher level. I note that the government settles down that the unemployment rate is at the level it is, and wants to weaken the means to bring it down. The Labour Party believes that we need a much more offensive policy to ensure vulnerable jobs, to create new jobs and to help unemployed people return to work. The government's response in this message is that the market should take that job more seriously. We want offensive policies to create new jobs. We want to strengthen the instrumentation. We want to strengthen research and development efforts, but we also want offensive policies to get those who are unemployed into permanent employment. Last time Norway had a high level of unemployment, the Labour Party took action to offer active labour market measures to almost every other unemployed person. Now there are a few unemployed people who are offered such an offer. This is why the Labour Party has proposed a sharp increase in the number of action places. The Labour Party wants, as the representative Upbeøen Hansen was in it, a strong, qualified and comprehensive labour market seat with access to the resources necessary to fulfil its role. Our main objective for economic policy is to ensure work for everyone. Then we want a more active industrial policy, and we want a more active labour market policy. We have seen this in the current position, but we have also seen it illustrated by the agreement on the budget for the year and in the agreement on the revised national budget. Finally, we are seeing today, again, an area in which the lines of policy are clear. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre want an active labour market and labour market policy. The Right Party and the Progressive Party want a market-driven and self-regulatory labour market policy. Once again, we have to wonder that the Christian People's Party chooses the last option. It is surprising to hear Apelthun Sæles' strong defenses for a system of more local wage formation and less importance to the national organizations, which is contrary to all the Christian People's Party so far has claimed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e720	Work provides well-being. Work takes care of some of the strongest needs we have in us, the ability to take care of ourselves and our closest ones through our own income and by being able to contribute to the community. Work provides well-being through increased value creation. Increased value creation ensures the welfare of the future. Today we have a debate on the broad lines of labour market policy. The initiative for the communication came from the Municipal Committee, and the Committee was particularly concerned with groups with difficulties in entering or staying in the labour market. These are problems which have increased rather than decreased since the Committee asked for the notification. The government shares the Committee's concerns and has taken many initiatives along the way to counteract the unfortunate trends we see. Norway has one of the highest professional frequencies in the OECD region. The long-term trend is that an increasing proportion of the population is out of the labour market. In the last 20 years, the labour force has increased by 360 000 people, and participation in the labour force has grown from 68 to 73 pst. The proportion of inactive persons, excluding old-age pensioners, has fallen from 27 to 22 pst. in the last 20 years. At the same time, the proportion of social benefits received by being outside the ordinary labour force has grown sharply. The number of unearned pensioners has increased sharply. In addition, the number of people receiving sickness, rehabilitation or rehabilitation benefits has also been increasing. In 2003, there were 530,000 active-age beneficiaries within the disease-related social security schemes. In addition, almost 90,000 people are receiving a daily allowance. The total of about 620,000 persons in social security schemes outside the ordinary working life was shorter or longer. The challenges we face seem to be a broad consensus. Nevertheless, the treatment of the wholesale notification of a well-functioning labour market has contributed to the development of clear dividing lines in Norwegian policy and in Norwegian labour market policy. That means that this is an important debate. In the majority comments from the left, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are committed to expressing disagreement with the Government's labour market policy. However, I think it is appropriate to point out that in the comments I have not found in principle new proposals to counteract the development of the labour market that we all find unfortunate. The majority of the committees should also recognise that the undesirable development associated with the social security of too many in the labour force today has been going on for a long time. Turning development requires new approaches, not just more of the policies of different governments over a long period of time, which have not worked well enough. The left-hand side's response to the challenges remains to continue known measures adapted to yesterday's labour market. However, the complexity of the challenges we face indicates the need for innovation and new solutions. In the Communication, the government focuses on strategies and measures to meet the challenges we face. A broad range of instruments is presented that take into account the totality of the factors affecting the labour market, both those that can and should be subject to public intervention and those that should not. The labour market is largely self-regulatory. This is also the view of the Progress Party, and I am therefore pleased with the support given by the Party to the main features of the Government's labour market policy. The starting point of the government and the message is that too many people are dissatisfied, even if they would like to be in work. There is a risk of a further increase as a result of high and increasing sick leave. In the long term, this is particularly worrying. We expect that the workforce will grow little, while the oldest part of the population will increase significantly. At the same time, oil revenues are expected to show a falling trend. The notification identifies many factors contributing to performance on the labour market. Individuals have strong aspirations related to their participation in the labour market. Most people are in a good position to find an adaptation they're satisfied with, and neither need nor wish to interfere with Aetat. The notification therefore offers a self-regulatory labour market as a vision. This also requires that more players who want and can contribute to a well-functioning labour market be given the opportunity to do so. In part, this will be done by Aetat purchasing services on behalf of job seekers. The Ministry has put in place several attempts to use private persons for the follow-up of the unemployed and the disabled, on the basis of decisions taken in Stortinget. Aetat has a particular responsibility to clarify the individual’s needs for services and to ensure that the services are available. While the opposition opposes changes, the Government is concerned about the results of the job-seekers. Government policy is based on knowledge from research and practical experience. This knowledge suggests that it is necessary to strengthen the measures that contribute to the promotion of job growth. The benefit system must be such that it pays to go from public support schemes to work. In addition, Aetate, which is to follow the individuals, must have the right focus and be effective. Employers must also be motivated by targeted support schemes. The duration of unemployment is an indication of the difficulties some have in getting back to work, and is therefore an important indicator of when Aetat is to deploy different types of action. The daily allowance period is shorter. A shorter daily allowance period also puts pressure on Aetat to make an extra effort towards those who are approaching the end of the daily allowance period. Many unemployed people need help and knowledge about how to look for a job in a good way. Such knowledge will help people to reduce unemployment. Aetat’s actions are therefore directed towards more job search. Some of the users of our welfare systems currently need services from several agencies. In particular, joint users of Aetat, social security and social services are concerned. The organisation of these services is therefore an important issue in order to ensure the proper and effective follow-up of long-term sick, temporary disabled, disabled and unemployed persons with a view to the swiftest possible transition to regular work. The organisation of welfare services and the various instruments used must stimulate the working line. We need to master solutions where the use of the different instruments for all aged 18 to 67 is more coherent, solutions for all those who should initially be part of the world of work. The IA Agreement has committed employers and employees’ organisations, together with the authorities, to work towards important objectives related to increased participation. This work is important as part of promoting a common understanding of the challenges facing society. The authorities have put in significant instruments and sums of money to work with an inclusive working life. We now have confidence that the social partners will follow up, that results will be brought to the individual enterprise, and that cooperation between employers and employees will deliver significantly better results than we have experienced before. I trust that several employers see the value of active prevention as an investment that involves significant good returns. The representative Upbeøen Hansen asked me a direct question. It is connected to the Telephone for Work. The Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Labour Inspectorate have been the main contributors to the project. The Ministry extended the aid this year pending the completion of an evaluation of the project. The evaluation has been carried out by ECON Analysis for Mental Health and is now available. The Prime Minister, as the Stortinget is well known, has called for an offensive against psychosocial problems and, in particular, bullying in the workplace. A sketch for the bet was presented at a kick-off conference on 1 June. The final design is ongoing during these days under the auspices of the partners in the IA Agreement. As we have informed Mental Health at our meeting on 22 April of this year, I am prepared to discuss with the parties in the IA context how Telephone for the labour market could possibly be included as an action against bullying in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e754	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e757	It's a fact that knowledge that's not in use is confusing. By converting Aetat into an asset and by allowing the market to produce the services in question, Aetat will not have its original competence after a while. In the wake of this, Aetat will reduce its ability to make qualitative good decisions and disappear as a link and a competence base between jobseekers and businesses. Private companies can certainly deliver good products in a number of areas, but I am convinced that it will never be possible to build a competence base like Aetat today. My question is: does the Council of State mean that the country needs such a base of competence? If the answer is no, is it no longer a wish from the Government to have political control and control over the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e764	I do not share the fearsome representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen has to cooperate with private people on good solutions, good solutions for the people concerned, good solutions for the jobseekers. My goal is to bring the unemployed back to work as quickly as possible, and I think it is a good proposal to cooperate with those who can best get job seekers to work, regardless of whether they are publicly employed or employed in a private enterprise that assists them with this. Our bet on Aetat should be known. During our reign we have strengthened the building with 900 new posts. We are not afraid that over time this weakens Aetat. Rather, on the contrary, we will improve the capacity of Aetat to implement instruments adapted to the labour market situation here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e769	Public sector employees account for a large proportion of the Norwegian labour market. Of course, a well-functioning labour market also includes a well-functioning public sector. Competition policy is, in my view, an essential prerequisite for a well-functioning business and labour market, among other things. to promote quality, productivity and value creation. But lately, in my view, there has been a little silence about putting out competition as a positive tool for the public sector. The Government has been sitting since 2001 and, together with the Progress Party, has had a majority in order to achieve significant things in the area of competitive outsourcing. My question to the Council of State will then be: Is the Council of State so satisfied with what the Government has achieved from the outsourcing of competition in the public sector, and will you, if necessary, actively work along pointed lines forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e776	Like Torbjørn Andersen and the Progress Party, I am engaged in a modern, user-oriented, efficient public sector. The launch of competition is one of several instruments to stimulate greater efficiency, better quality and greater scale of services to be provided to citizens. We have implemented a number of reforms in this area. We have contributed to the increased exemption of State activities, which means that freed state activities compete with private ones. But it is also true that very much of the publicly funded service production takes place in Norwegian municipalities. We have confidence in strong local democracy. We want local democracy to have a high degree of freedom to decide for ourselves how services are to be produced. There will then be different political majority who will to some extent decide which instruments are being used. But this is local democracy, and I want more local democracy, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e781	Is it a major problem in Norwegian working life today that many become ill and ill by the job, or is it a big problem that many get a social security or a sick pay it is possible to live on? I want to ask the Council of State that question, because I think the Government's approach to how to get to an inclusive working life is very deficient. It is now that there is a one-sided focus on improving efficiency and cutting, especially in the public sector, and the public sector is now contributing very strongly to the increase in disability benefits and sick pay. When everyone is going to be so effective, down to the last minute, so that the little breathing holes one before had in everyday life, get lost, people get sick. There are too few nurses at work when heavy lifting is to be taken, and people get sick of it. Workplace conditions are the most important in terms of exclusion and disability, said the Council of State in a newspaper article a few weeks ago. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the public sector does not create so much sickness and disability?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e791	The government takes a great deal of responsibility in the work of the agreement on inclusive working life. We have put a significant set of tools on the table, and we have done about that. NOK 1.2 billion available to the parties. Now there must be employers and employees of the individual enterprise that produce results. It's not like Karin Andersen says that this government has a one-sided focus on cuts in public services. Never has the income framework for Norwegian municipalities been larger than today. Never have more people been employed who provide welfare for the audience, like today. The disadvantage and challenge facing the public sector is that despite significant growth in access to resources, little productivity growth has been demonstrated. The fact that things are going faster today, you can ask questions about what is going on. The reason for this is not that productivity and efficiency requirements have been met, and that there is much faster running because the job needs to be speeded up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e798	In relation to the previous reply, I would just like to recommend that the Council of State go on a visit, for example. at a hospital, and see what pressure is now. Because in a lot of municipalities, there are fewer and no more municipalities to do the same. I want to focus on a theme that the Committee pays great attention to, that is, the situation of young people. The Committee shares the question of the need for a guarantee. I would have liked it to have been more numerous for a youth guarantee of my own, so that young people under the age of 25 are sure to have a right to work, education or a place of action. But there is one theme where the whole committee stands together, and it concerns the importance of investing in young entrepreneurs. In connection with a Document No. Last year's 8th proposals relating to youth, the Committee was, on the initiative of the Centre Party, some on an own-initiative entrepreneurship entrepreneurship entrepreneurship course as an additional element for young people. My question is, what is the status of such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e807	This government is very concerned about improving the climate for the creation of new businesses. The most important thing we do in this area is through tax, tax and financial policies to make it profitable to create new activities in Norway. In cooperation with Young Entrepreneurship we have a significant investment in student businesses, and we also see the good results of the long-term attitude-building work Young Entrepreneurship creates. We know that young people who, through young entrepreneurship, set up companies in school and study time will be overrepresented among entrepreneurs. I have to admit that I do not have a full answer to the representative's direct question, but I will make sure to bring knowledge about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e814	The Council of State said that to reverse the development with increased unearthed retirement, etc. requires a new grip. And the government's taking hold. The problem is that they grabbed the government taking, amplifying the problems, not reducing them. We need a policy that enables more people to stand longer and to be able to use the residual capacity they have, while the government's policy of progressing towards a tougher working life, illustrated by the overtime legislation, illustrated by temporary use and later caste, contributes to a less inclusive working life, and with it more outstriped into disability or early retirement. The problem here is that the government is taking the wrong grip. The second is that the Council of State answered the question from Oppebøen Hansen that there is no problem with cooperation on good solutions. But the main question of Upbebøen Hansen is, is it that the competence of Aetat has a distinct value? Will not that competence be reduced when Aetat's role in ordering is reduced instead of being the one holding the core competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e823	It's not right for the government to brutalize the work force. This is a serious claim that the representative cannot substantiate. In fact, in Norway we have one of the highest professional participations in the world. Studies show that Norwegian workers are mainly good at work. We have a private capital, and the most important resource in the individual enterprise is the employee, and responsibility is taken for the fact that employees in Norway are basically doing well. I am engaged in a strong labour market seat, a labour market seat that is particularly capable of assisting those who need help to get out of work. It's also a fact that most people are doing their own thing. I am not concerned with schemes themselves, but I am concerned about creating results. I trust that Aetat, in cooperation with the private sector, will choose solutions that will ensure that the most lasting job is taken out, and that the time available will be as short as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e830	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e835	The Labour Party believes that in order to achieve the goal of a working life with room for all, an active policy must be put in place, using a wide range of tools. Therefore, we believe that there is an error when the Government wants a labour market that is as self-regulatory as much as possible. The working party lacks concrete tools that give less social exclusion. During the debate, there has been a lot of focus on sick leave and the agreement on an inclusive working life. The Labour Party believes that the effort for an inclusive working life must be increased, including: by increasing efforts through work centres. In addition, there is a need for action against the disabled. The provision of professional retraining needs to be more tailor-made and adapted to individual needs and opportunities. Who said the Labour Party is not flexible? We want more and more flexibility in managing the length and content of a refactoring process. The Labour Party believes that the Government focuses too little on action areas as a break back to work. Action spaces may be so lacking. The most important thing is that the unemployed are offered a differentiated scheme. These may include professional practice, pay supplements, temporary work schemes and qualifying training measures. In the case of the disabled, studies carried out by Aetat show that the most likely job opportunities for the unemployed are to come to work after a longer re-employment programme. Therefore, it may be important to prioritize longer and personalised rerouting courses. But regardless of what the Labour Party thinks, the Government has to come back to Stortinget with a broad and professional feedback message, where a group can discuss what measures are needed to realize the working line. I invite you to a joint, cross-political effort on these questions. I remind you that the most important resource we have is human. People no longer feel the suffocation and poverty. The main objective must be secure incomes, a social network and not least the ability to use their capabilities and resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e846	I will continue where I left off, about millions of transfers from the state fund to the necessary conversion in the relevant municipalities. There is a big difference between the industrial restructuring we had a couple of decades ago when unprofitable businesses were laid down, and the framework restructuring that is taking place today, when profitable industries move out because the main goal of the government is to free labour. No country in Europe has better assumptions than Norway for knowledge-based innovation in value added areas, where we were already at the top of the world and still are. It concerns maritime industries, fisheries and energy. Then it is a paradox that the Government, rather than providing these industries with competitive framework conditions, will sell the renewable asset base through negotiable fishing quotas and hydropower on the stock exchange, while at the same time large parts of maritime activities, not least our short sea shipping, are managed and flagged out of the country. Today, the Industry Committee is giving its opinion on a shipping report which, following the June 2000 decision, should have been submitted three years ago. If cargo ships and national ferries do not also have an internationally competitive framework for both ships and crews, the Government will succeed in setting up more than a thousand Norwegian seafarers. It will reduce the workforce and increase social security expenditure further. No country in Europe has a more spectacular nature for tourism, but tourism is not facilitated by the development of the transport network. The roads are decaying, church buildings and other cultural buildings outside the big cities are decaying, and while the tax havens have gone so far to rich people in Oslo, Asker and Bærum, the tax pressure through the toll system has increased abroad. It seems centralizing. It affects both the tourism industry and all other activities in the districts. It is claimed that we need to take action now to combat labour shortages in the future. Those who are managed from active work to passivity through early and early retirement are not the labour force of the future. With access to labour from a Europe where unemployment seems to be constantly high, there is no reason to believe that there will be problems in collecting the labour force we want. Experience shows that Stoltenberg was wrong. It is fully possible to get nurses out of the boreholes, if there are nurses we need. The sale of the value added base gives future generations less opportunity for value creation than the generations previously had. When the country's infrastructure falls due, it becomes large and is now up to at least NOK 11 billion. It does not stimulate transport-dependent nutritional establishment and export goods must be transported. When the country grows again because eleven farms are shut down every day, our descendants can have a fight to clean up a new country if food supplies from abroad stop. In a world threatened by terrorism, it is irresponsible not to make sure that we have a self-sufficiency of food.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e863	I did not get an answer to my question to the Council of State instead: Is it a problem that there are many people who get sick and unworked by the job, or is it a big problem that people then have a performance that allows them to live on it? It seems like the government thinks it's the last thing that's the big problem, because they say they're always going to focus on the economic incentives to get a job. It means in Norwegian that one should cut the benefits. But I mean to see a little bit of what goes on how we're going to create a working life that doesn't make people tired and unworked by the job. Ebba Wergeland, a specialist in occupational medicine at the Institute of Social Medicine in Oslo, expresses itself quite strongly in this regard. She says it's naive to think that a more inclusive working life can be combined with more market management and increased competition. It's e.g. It is obvious that winning tenders depends on always having the freshest, the fastest and the most overtime workers. Then there will be less space for those who have some flaws, and who cannot deliver at most every day. This is the case, for example. in the public sector today, both in hospitals and in the care service. Nor do they become particularly effective in constantly having to run new reorganization projects based on some theory of efficiency rather than doing the job for which they are actually employed, namely providing care and care for those who need it. A lot of people who call me tell me they get sick because they don't have enough time to talk to people who need them. It's a serious problem for very many, and it's usually a huge problem because it really needs the users of these services, is someone who sometimes has time to hold them in hand, talk to them and feed them. I ask the State Council if he does not see that there is anything in e.g. the approach of this government to local economy, which, in my view, focuses only on efficiency objectives and targets. If you save a penny, it's a good penny. In fact, we believe that some of these heads could have been better used if we had at least in the public sector a working life that had not so much made people sick by it. We believe – not only do we believe, but we know – that even those users of the public sector who need these services had had a very good time, and that we had had a working life that had both had room for more people and had given a much better offer to users. I miss the fact that the Council of State gives a good answer to that. What are the conditions in the workplace that can make people less ill and less infirm?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e874	It's precisely because we want more time for what matters to people, we believe that the transformation of the public sector is necessary. It's just to free up time for more care and increase adult density in primary school we think it's necessary to turn every stone and see how we can work smarter. Until then Karin Andersen and SV will run: we don't want enough labour in this country if we're not willing to solve problems differently. We're not going to save ourselves in the first line. On the contrary, we are going to make changes in how we solve our public sector tasks in a way that allows us to get more resources for the most people in this country. It's a big problem that people get sick at work," says the representative Karin Andersen. I'm taking that challenge, and that challenge has to be especially concerned with how we do a better job from people getting sick and until they're out of work again. I am committed to finding solutions at the intersection of social security and work, which means that we give priority to the line of work and help people become unemployed for the shortest possible period of time and get out of work as quickly as possible. It's the best guarantee that people don't stay on leave. Now, when we come back to the Greatness with a matter of how we're going to solve the welfare systems of those who are in working age, in a better way than we've done now, I'm concerned that the Greatness is able to make a decision that helps us get more of those who are out of work, out of work again. I meet every week employers who take this responsibility seriously, who have seen the contract for an inclusive working life not as a ride, but as an opportunity to invest with employees in instruments that make their own job a better place to be. I'm pretty sure it's going to increase the competitiveness of these companies. It will mean that the enterprises that dare to invest appear to be employers who will attract resources, labour resources and competences necessary for the future. Then I want to take the opportunity to fix something I think I was hurt to say wrong instead. I think I used the number 900 when it comes to strengthening Aetat. The right number is 700.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e887	There is not so much to add to a debate that has been going on for almost two and a half hours, but it is nevertheless interesting to note the debate. What I want to say a few words about is that I find it a little strange that on such important issues as employment and industrial development, it is going to be a distinction in Norwegian policy. We all show that we are interested in creating jobs and helping those who are working, those who have to fall out of work, and not least those who are perhaps considered to have the greatest difficulty in getting into the world of work. Then, on the one hand, there is talk of how hard work is, that the weak groups are separated, that we form A, B and C groupings in the workplace, and that the demands of Norwegian working life have become so large that that is why. It must be possible to hold such a debate and at the same time have two thoughts in mind and find positive conclusions and actions in common. Thus, one side of Norwegian policy is not only very concerned with facilitating the weak groups, but they consider all workers to be weak. It's not like we're spending so much resources on those who had to have big problems getting into the world of work. We spend much more resources, much more resources, on healthy and working people in Norway. That debate, too, I think, needs to focus more on it. Clearly, the uncertainty around the whole country has increased because we have a policy that ensures that we lose jobs, that we have a policy that ensures that we have a shortage of jobs and that we do not create new jobs. This creates uncertainty both for those at work and for those who are new and entering the labour market. These are common features, and then it's clear that the great sick leave that we have, and the fact that we have so many disabled people and so many healthy people who are out of work, should be a paradox for more people, if we compare ourselves with countries around us. In all of this, the left-hand side of Norwegian policy has been at the forefront of buying out healthy workers, through contractual pensions, remuneration, guarantee payments, labour market measures, etc., and said that it is not so dangerous that you do not take any initiative yourself, because we are going to make sure that there is a network that takes care of you anyway and sidesteps you with those who might be at work. That debate has many sides, and I think it should be possible to take that debate together and find unanimous measures to do something both with those who are outside and with those who are in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e901	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3065]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e919	It is a political responsibility to distribute influence and power in society. How a person distributes power and influence and who is a participant in political processes before and when a decision is taken is essential for maintaining democracy. In order to create trust, loyalty and understanding for a decision, it is important to have a broad anchoring, and that the public feels that all aspects of a matter come to light. In a written answer to a question from the undersigned, State Council Meyer writes: ‘Controls, advice and selection are important elements of central government. They help to complement and strengthen the competence of management, relieve management of tasks and create better role-sharing, as well as to identify and balance the views and interests of different groups. The composition shall reflect the need for professional competence, expertise and representativeness where appropriate. The scope and composition of governance, advice and selection must be seen in the context of the need for efficient and flexible government management.’.» I agree with that. Public samples, governance and advice are important premiscuous providers for both government and wholesale. The selections are key political arenas. Here, much of the basis for the policy formulation of proposals presented by the Government is laid, as the Stortinge treats and adopts. That's why I think it's necessary to have a good and broad representation, both geographically and in terms of gender and age. It's about using resources from all over the country, putting together people with different backgrounds, ages and genders and with experience from different environments. This should also include representatives of ethnic minorities in Norway. The composition creates dynamics. Numerous opinions give a better result. A broad representation is reasonable, and it serves the country and the future in every way! Today there is a place between 500 and 600 samples, governing and advising. About 6,000 people are in office. There is a strong disparity between geographical, gender and age of persons appointed by the Government of State samples, governs and advises. The largest proportion of people live in the Oslo area. The figures show that Oslo and Akershus have about 43 p.m. of the members of government boards, councils and boards, while there are 23 pst. of the population living in the region. However, although there is an acceptable proportion of women in such bodies, about 42 pst., there is considerable variation between departments. The Ministry of Defence has the lowest share of women, and the Ministry of Children and Family has about 50 pst. Only subdued by these regimes are led by women, and half of the vice-leaders are men. In answer to a written question, the Council of State says: ‘It is... desirable to increase the proportion of women in leading positions in governments, councils and selection’.» Besides, the average age is very high, and there's a lot of room and a need to get young people in these boards. These are numbers that show that we have a long way to go. My challenge, then, is what means and when is the objective to be achieved? In St.meld. No 15 for 2002-2003 the Government has presented some targets for the next four-year period, in which it states: ‘1. The government's goal is to have at least 40 pst. representation of each gender in government selection, governance and advice. This shall apply to all departments. The purpose of the government is to increase the share of women in senior positions in government selection, governance and advice over the four-year period.2. The aim of the government is to improve the geographical distribution of recruitment to government selection, governance and advice, and otherwise to strengthen recruitment from the younger age groups.3. The government will be involved in ensuring that people with a migrant background are also recruited. I find that after three years it is still a long way to go before these objectives are achieved. The council said in its written reply to me: ‘Since many state institutions, including: research institutions and private organisations, located in the Oslo region, it is natural that many members of governments, councils and committees also reside in the central eastern region.’.» I believe that this is not a good argument for a division of duties. This may be an argument for progress in the relocation of state administration and jobs, but not for recruitment to government, selection and advice. The Ministry of Labour and Administration has commissioned Statskonsult to provide guidance on the appointment and use of controllers, councils and samplers, which will clarify the objectives of the main message. The guide will be addressed to the departments. Its purpose is, among other things: influence the composition of the board, advice and selection in the desired direction. This is good, a guide is a bit on the way, but this doesn't give any clear and concise measure. Perhaps it is time to consider a transitional requirement, as has been done in relation to controllers in private enterprises. As I said earlier, little has happened. There is a need for political will. The knowledge is evenly distributed throughout the country! I think that such a division of scales leads to the focus being placed more on Oslo and the inner east than is absolutely necessary. But what I'm most sorry about is that we're wasting a lot of resources, we're wasting a unique competence that we have. As we know, people from different positions have different competences and different reference frameworks. Once again, it will lead to different perspectives and solutions to things. Such a biased distribution of state powers that we have today helps to narrow our country's outlook, our competence and our resources. I seriously believe that the changes in the state-appointed council are too slow. It is necessary to have a political focus on this – as the Government has – but action is the key, and we need to use that key. Let me take an example, telemedicine. It would never have been developed about an unknown need for this, if you hadn't experienced the long travel distances and how expensive it is to travel between places and move on people. Telemedicine was the result of doctors in Finnmark using video to film their patients, and it has again led to a commitment to telemedicine. In order to create a fair representation, it is necessary to implement strong governance mechanisms that impose a stronger regional and gender and age balance in the appointment process. I believe that the public governance structure is regrettable, given that large parts of the country and the population are under-represented, and I believe that this has a major impact on the decisions of both the Government and the Stortinget. Therefore, SV requires both action and clear objectives, in the short and long term. There is a need for awareness-raising, a clear strategy and a clear objective. I want to challenge the Council of State today: the government has made it clear that it is a goal to change this bias, but little has happened. Does the Council of State think that the strong under-representation of individual groups creates a bias in national policy, and what concrete action will the Council of State take?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e981	Governance, advice and selection, often called collegiate bodies, are important elements of our central government. The use of such bodies has long historical traditions, but the large number of permanent councils and selections in the management and presentation of interests in these bodies is relatively new. The collegial bodies are an important resource within the administration, a resource the Government wants to develop further. They contribute to complementing and strengthening the competence of management, depriving it of tasks and creating a better role-sharing. Collegiate bodies help to guarantee thorough and comprehensive reflections by attracting people from outside with special professional knowledge or practical experience. They also contribute to maintaining cross-disciplinary and professional cooperation. At the same time, they are useful in creating and balancing the views and interests of different groups. Collegiate bodies thus constitute an important democratic element of governance, including by ensuring transparency of public activities. On the other hand, joint bodies may help to delay the decision-making process and lead to compromise decisions. Collegiate bodies are very diverse enterprises with a very wide range of tasks. They may be governors of state business or institutions, they may have investigative tasks, or they may be subject to complaints. Collegiate bodies may be divided into the following categories: judicial bodies responsible for the regulation, allocation and distribution of bodies responsible for the promotion and dissemination of information by professional and expert councils, liaison and cooperation committees permanent councils and committees of inquiry permanent commissions with scrutiny tasks; The state recruits annual members to a large number of boards, councils and selections. In 2002, a total of approx. 5 500 members of nearly 450 collegiate bodies. The scope and composition of governance, advice and selection must be seen in the context of the need for efficient and flexible government management. For many years, efforts have been made to reduce the number of collegiate bodies and to provide them with a composition and size consistent with their needs. From 2001 to 2002, the number of bodies was reduced by 18 p.m., from 533 in 2001 to 437 in 2002. It is positive, and it contributes to fulfilling the Government's desire to bring down the number of boards, councils and committees as part of the modernisation and efficiency work it has high on its agenda. In 2002, the government announced St.meld. No 15 for 2002-2003 State selection, governance, etc. 1 January to 31 January. of December 2001. One of the objectives of the current four-year period was to increase the proportion of women. Other objectives were to improve the geographical distribution and to make the age composition of collegiate bodies more equal to the age distribution of the population. Although at present there is an acceptable proportion of women in these collegiate bodies, about 42 pst., unfortunately, only a quarter of them are led by women. The government therefore wants to increase the proportion of women in leading positions. The government has clearly stated that we want more women in the governments of business, and we make similar demands to the governments, councils and selection departments themselves. With regard to the geographical distribution of members, a large proportion of the collegiate bodies are located in the Oslo/Akershus area. It contributes to the overrepresentation of the central eastern region in relation to its population. Oslo and Akershus have 43 p.m. by members, but only 22 pst. of the population. Trondelag and Nord-Norway, the representative's own region, have 18 pst. by members and 19 pst. by the population. South and Western countries are underrepresented in collegiate bodies, with 18 pst. by members and 32 pst. by the population. The East is also underrepresented, with 27 pst. by the population, but only 13 pst. by the members of the college bodies. I would like to stress that questions can be raised about what qualifications you actually need to have to be a Westerner or a Northerner. It is not that identity and understanding of your own part of the country and the challenges of your own region stop when you move on. We live in an increasingly open world. I warn against thinking that address alone should be a qualification not only to be a good representative of the collegiate bodies we are talking about, but also a representative of the interest, interest or region to be cared for. I will assume that more than me during a stay in Oslo masters to care for the commitment, interest, understanding and knowledge of the region from which you actually come. The requirements which should be imposed on members of the various boards, councils and committees will vary according to the tasks of the bodies. The composition of the college bodies must reflect the need for professional competence and expertise, as well as representativeness, where appropriate. In many cases, members of collegiate bodies shall primarily represent an organisation, institution or group, such as in joint committees. Here it would be natural to focus on the widest possible representation. But many governments, councils and selections have the mark of being purely expert bodies, where the purpose is to gather the point competence within specific disciplines. This means that, in many cases, there will be a primary need to recruit people with specific professional competence. This applies, for example: calculation committees, accident commissions and research technical samples and also governs for many state companies. It is also relevant to use people from other countries to fill these posts, as has in some cases been chosen by higher education authorities. In such cases, one should not impose a strict requirement for representativeness because the recruitment basis is so narrow. The Government wants a good geographical and age distribution with regard to the recruitment of government agencies, councils and samples, and has followed up on appointment. In particular, it is important to draw exchangers on the competences that exist within, inter alia: business and research environments around the country. As part of this work, the Government aims to create a guide for the appointment and use of directors, councils and selections during the year. Its purpose is, among other things: to obtain a more balanced composition and to clarify the Government's objectives towards the appointed bodies. When it comes to the concrete question of whether I believe that the strong under-representation of individual groups creates bias in national policy, I do not think that is the case. As mentioned, many of the bodies we are talking about here are set up to provide management and political bodies with thoughtful, professional advice, often in highly specialised areas. If the political bodies making the decisions are to have a good decision-making basis, it is important that a person should primarily search for the most competent persons, regardless of other factors. However, it is important to seek sufficient breadth, not least professionally, in advice and selection, so that different arguments and considerations emerge. When the basis for decision-making is high quality, it is also the best basis for the decisions to be taken by policy-making bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1035	I followed closely as the Council of State gave its answer. I did not hear any good arguments for this misalignment. I see only arguments to do something about the bias distribution that exists today. When it's 50 pst. of those in consultation and selection, coming from the Oslo/Akershus area, this is a strong bias. The Council of State and I agree that advice and selection are important precursors of the policy we pursue. That's what the state council said in its article. And for a government council which in the previous case bore the wish of «more local democracy and not less», this must be one of the most important steps to take: to ensure that government-appointed governments and selections receive a broad representation, both geographically, in age and in gender. I fully agree with what the Council of State says, that the address of residence should not be a stamp of approval. But then I will again challenge the Council of State: Is it that the competence is evenly distributed across the country? Is it true that we have good environments and good institutions all over Norway that should have been used? And when the Council of State has also said that he has the aim of getting a broader representation: does this not mean that the role of the selections and where they come from has a meaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1046	I underlined in my post now and have also said from this pulpit in other posts that having a board, advice and sample that broadly mirrors Norway's country is important in itself. At the same time, it is necessary to stress that we do not rarely reduce advice, selection and governance that has a major professional challenge, and where the environments of competence from which we can retrieve these people are quite limited. I can mention one example, since we were concerned with local democracy in this debate. When the Government reduces a sample to assess changes in the municipal economic system, i.e. in the income system for Norwegian municipalities, it is such that we have a limited number of environments from which we can draw that competence. This competence will necessarily be particularly concentrated in a few large university cities in Norway. That's the way it is, and so we have to take that into account. I also stress that when the representation from Oslo and Akershus becomes the way it is, it is the result that we have actually chosen this city as the capital, and this is where the central administration has its seat in particular. But that's still not the way it is – and I stress what I said in my previous post – that being a Western means that you have to go in the mood and speak the parish dialect. I would assume that many Westerners well-inhabited in Oslo are fully capable of representing culture, understanding of issues and local identity even though the residence address is for a short or longer time outside the area where they may be strictly geographically related. In my view, we must exercise some caution, so that we do not destroy the purpose of these collegiate bodies, namely to give the advice that leads to the best political decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1053	This interpellation has an important content in both using the entire population and using the whole country. It's not long since we had an interpellation that was about female top leaders in the state. Nor has it been long since we had a case in the family, cultural and administrative committee on the law enforcement of at least 40 pst. female representation in public limited-liability companies. At the Committee's examination, the Workers' Party did not obtain a majority to legislate on this from 1 January 2004, when the majority wanted to wait and see it until the autumn of 2005. As the situation is today, I believe that the Council of State also sees that it would have been important to legislate this as soon as possible. We had approx. 8 pst. female representation when we were dealing with the matter, and we have come no further today than to 11 p.m. How then does the Council of State mean that the Government will be able to fulfill the promise of the Council of State Gabrielsen of 30 p.m. representation in public limited-liability companies in 2005? We have a power of men in society today. The worst is the defense, with very few women in charge. Business leaders are represented by 96 pst. Men, in the Church it's 94 pst. Men, and in the police and the judiciary, it's 93 pst. men. These are many public jobs. How will the Council of State clean up its own mess, as it's called? Gender equality is slowing down when three out of four Norwegian limited liability companies do not have a single woman in the board of directors. Continuing this, we'll get to 2040 before we've clothed the control rooms with enough women. Maybe we've also gotten a more even age distribution. Unfortunately, it is correct that the distribution of appointed representatives to public administrations and to sample is geographically biased. North Norway has worn this for a number of years, and actually we've heard that the geographic distances are too large. It means too much travel expenses to go with people from North Norway. We're not allowed to shut down almost half of the population because of sex, and we're not allowed to shut down parts of Norway's population because of geographic distances. I hope that the Council of State will take with it all that has been said for the time being in this interview, as well as what is further said, and use the tools and resources that we know we have. The whole of Norway is made up of wise women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1070	It is an important objective of the Right and of the Government to increase women’s participation in decision-making bodies and in management both in the public sector and in business. Two other objectives are to improve the geographical distribution and to make the age composition more equal to the age distribution elsewhere in society. It is an important democratic principle that both sexes are well represented in the decision-making bodies and also in the decision-making bodies. I am convinced that a balanced gender balance will contribute to increased knowledge and a broader basis of experience in this work. In a modern, equal society, both sexes should have equal opportunities to contribute, and there are of course enough qualified persons of both sexes – and I want to stress especially women – to be able to participate in this work. As the Council of State stressed in its statement, collegiate bodies are important elements of central government, and I am pleased that he also clearly underlined that the Government wants to further develop this resource. The composition of different boards, councils and selections must reflect the need for professional competence and expertise that is needed at all times, in addition to a geographical breakdown. Many of these bodies are purely expert bodies, which the Council of State had in mind, where it is precisely the top competence that is important. I don't share the inter-pellant's desire to transfer people from the districts, as it turned out from a TV 2 lookup today early. It must be knowledge, competence and experience in the area in question that must be crucial, not where people live. There are instruments other than allowances for obtaining the necessary geographical representation. And in terms of age composition, it's important to get a good spread. The justification is so obvious that it is not necessary to further argue for it. That's why I think it's very positive that the Government, as the Council of State has announced, will make a guide for the appointment of directors, councils and selections, and by ensuring a more balanced composition in terms of geography, sex and age. To get a good decision-making basis, I agree that it is important that a person should primarily search for the most competent persons, regardless of age, gender or where they had to live in the country. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Council of State will now step up work on various measures that can help more women gain leadership positions in governance, advice and selection. It is necessary to provide sufficient scope for different arguments and considerations, which will help to provide a sound and adequate basis for decision-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1085	This interpellation is an example of what it is like to go backwards into a problem. The important thing about the selection of people to government governments, councils and selections should be how competent people are, not where they live, how old they are, or whether they go in skirts. I am really tired of all the allowances. Let me take an example based on the gender quoting. Time and again, it is claimed that equality can only be achieved through quotaing. I don't understand anything about this. It is probably related to my being raised with a working mother in a leading position. She was not auctioned or had special support or protective measures. She was simply so capable that she got the job she wanted. Now she may not have been typical of the 1970s, but there is actually an excess of women in senior positions in today's Norway who have come to these positions without quota and special measures. I even have several female friends who are company managers, without quota and without having been sewn cushions under my arms by special measures. Why would they need that? They're good. I think that's where the nucleus lies. The people we need in government councils, selections, corporate governance and in politics are those who are willing to take responsibility, those who have a education and competence, who are capable and willing to stand on, whether you are a man or a woman, from Finnmark or Rogaland, are the same, immigrants or ethnic Norwegian, young or old. I can't help but notice that in the SV's group there are very few older people. If you're so eager to do this with quotas, you might want to start with your own set-up and put some older people in. It would probably be a strength for this party. If it's true that this interpellation is essentially about sex, perhaps more than age and place of residence, it might also be tempting to point out that women today are in the majority of our universities and colleges. This will mean that in 10–15 years they will have at least half of the leadership positions in society, which they should also have. Quotation is therefore unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1098	I experience the theme that the interpellant addresses, as very important. It follows a long historical tradition. The fight for the rights of different groups has been a battle that has not been waged without further action, but precisely through active involvement in different areas. The representative Knudsen of the Progress Party argues here as if things are counting on a mountain, and that if you only have good enough people, you create a society of equivalence, where everyone gets the same rights. But it's not like that. We must not forget that until 1914 women in Norway had no voting rights. We must not forget that there have been national assemblies here in the past where women were not represented at all. We must not forget that in order to achieve that as well, for example. The representative Knudsen was concerned about, the representation of the elderly, depending on the use of measures, such as the elderly council, to achieve such representation. When you describe the concept of competence – and I noticed that Sonja Sjøli did – as if it were something independent of age, gender or geography, it surprises me. I understand that there is a big difference between the Right and the Advance Party on the attitude to these questions. However, skills are also often related to gender or age. It is quite obvious that as a man in a number of areas, I will lack the necessary insight that women will have through the fact that they are women. And even though I'm never so much concerned with respecting women, I also see as a man that if you're going to take care of that perspective, it's necessary to find space for a more equal composition of women and men. And because very much of the representation in governments, councils and selections is about power, women will experience that they encounter men who want the power they seek. And if you don't have a government agency or a magnificence that facilitates balancing for the power that men have often had, that goes at the expense of women, it will take a very long time before that equalization happens. What has been positive is to see that there have actually been forces in the government, like Ansgar Gabrielsen, who has at some point decided that there must be arrangements to balance the differences. It should be believed that precisely because some have called for this, this type of interpellation should be welcomed as part of these measures. That's why I might be a little surprised at how negative the Right works when the SV takes the order, among other things. to support the approach of the Minister of Industry here. I also believe that getting out of the districts itself gives a kind of competence that you don't have if you live centrally, for example. in the eastern part of the region. That doesn't mean that you're always right, but if you don't provide a composition where these are also represented, there will be aspects that draw in different directions, because those points of view don't come out. Let's not make it harder than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1109	It is important to keep up the pressure to overcome the bias in the leadership positions of society. Interpellations like this from Lena Jensen are therefore important. I just want to stress in the context of what Gunnar Ballo called for, that I think it is positive that we have had such an interaction. Even recently, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I traveled an interpellation where the theme was women's share in state top management positions. Now, Lena Jensen has chosen a wider perspective for her question, which also requires a more nuanced and comprehensive answer, and we have also received that from the Council of State Meyer. The Christian People's Party agrees that strong governance mechanisms need to be used to ensure a better distribution, whether in terms of gender, age or geographical distribution. I noticed, however, that Lena Jensen in the interpellation text uses the term ‘to create a fair representation’. I think this may not be so much about justice as about democracy and ensuring the widest possible range from the entire population when different governance and advice are to be put together. On a general basis, there is no doubt that we get the best composition in which we have a broad grasp of candidates of both sexes from different age groups and different parts of the country, and we can also include ethnic minorities. If we are to have representatively composed governing bodies that make representative decisions, the starting point must also be representative, short and good. For a long time, we have accepted a policy whereby men of their so-called best age, preferably from the central east, have been the basis for recruitment of leading bodies in Norway. The time is overdue for an extension in relation to this perspective. The reasons for the bias are probably more. Most of the things that have been said about this have been about gender equality. The other day, however, we were able to read in the week newspaper Management No. 21 on an interesting Swedish research report that tells us that women now have at least as much appetite for career and power as men. It is also interesting that women who want to make a career have learned to reconcile children and work, and – perhaps the most interesting – that they have more like-minded husbands. The article concludes that ‘there is therefore only a major obstacle left: the resistance of the labour market’. Whether the same obstacle also applies in relation to improving the age balance and the regional/geographical distribution is not known. Use of management mechanisms such as quotaing, at least in individual bodies where appropriate, and so on. is one thing. However, it is above all a question of attitudes, of changing the attitudes of those responsible for recruiting the relevant bodies. Fortunately, the picture is not unambiguously negative. For example, the share of women in the boards of entire state businesses last year was 45,7 p.m. The decision to relocate a number of State supervision is another example of the same. So that's to keep this pressure up so that we get a better distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1131	It is an important and necessary theme to be discussed here today. It is also important that one here not necessarily discuss it as a quota issue, but as a matter of self-justice from the different departments and public bodies – because the breadth of sea is important in itself, and because it is important to complement knowledge and decision-making as decision-makers of both sexes and from all the environment, age classes and geographical areas. 42 pst. Women are likely to show that the Government is on its way. The big challenge of gender composition in the future, I think, is to secure the breadth of the man-made bastions, especially in departments such as the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence. In the case of geographical distribution, unfortunately, it is worse. I have here an example from last autumn, the appointment of an income system committee to assess whether the income system in the municipalities meets the requirement of fair distribution, and to carry out a broad professional review of the distribution mechanisms in financing towards the 434 municipalities we have in Norway. So in this sample there are nine members of thirteen from Oslo and Akershus. The yard has two, Bærum has two, and Oslo seizes five places in the sample. Except for Oslo and Akershus, only Tromsø, Trondheim and Notoddden are represented. It has to be said to be a gruesome example of a biased distribution, because there can actually be different opinions between Grong in the North Tronde Team, Sortland or Averøya and Oslo about what is a fair distribution between municipalities, and it can also be that a person has different opinions about what strengthens local democracy. That's why I think it's a little too easy when the Right's representative and also the State Council here are concerned that the address alone should not be a qualification. But no one has said that! For a sample to evaluate the income system for all the 434 municipalities here in the country, it should actually be possible to find a little more width than one has clear from the Government. I have to say that I seem to notice a little dejection in the last article of the Council of State. Well, there may be people in Oslo who understand the situation in other parts of the country. But it's not like we who live in District Norway, necessarily go in a bundle either. In fact, some of us even have higher education. Think about it! This isn't about knowledge, it's not about living in Oslo, it's about the breadth and consideration of representativeness, which we're concerned about in every other context. And perhaps the question of lack of geographical latitude is simply a question of insanity, of being able to conduct more maritime justice and look outside the more established saloon-capable circuits.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1142	The goal of this interpellation is to open the eyes of the Storting and look at the Government, so that they can see that we have competent environments, and that the country is large. As one Norwegian lyricist has said, ‘It is far from this country. Most of it is north.’ I want through this interpellation to complain that we are wasting so much resources, and that we are wasting unique competence. Because, as we know, and as it has been established through research — at all times we know it, all of us — people from different positions have different competences and different reference frameworks, and they see different things and situations. I will, through this interpellation, show and get to the Government that the competence is distributed throughout the country. I want, through this interpellation and this focus, to get a better distribution of both geographical and gender and age in governments, samples and councils, because I believe that these boards, selections and councils are the precursors for many of the decisions we make on the Storting, and the decisions that the Government proposes for the Storting. I am surprised that the Council of State believes that this bias in representation has no impact on national policy. I think the time is overdue to change the bias of advice, selection and governance. I think there's a need for a lot of people, both in this room and elsewhere, to see that competence and insight don't stop at the Sinsen Cross.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1153	There has been an exciting and important debate. It shows that there is a great deal of consensus about the desire for a broader representation of state governments, councils and selections, but we distinguish to some extent layers when we discuss instruments. For my part, I believe in positive attitudes such as: implies that when new advice and selections are appointed, there is awareness among us that we are doing so, which means that we are constantly moving in the right direction. Quotation is not the solution. I must also be allowed to remind you that the region that has been best represented in this debate, as it turns out, is coming out well. So it's 18 pst. by the members of these collegiate bodies representing 19 p.m. by the population. Better you can barely meet. We have taken a rather significant step in the right direction in terms of women's representation in state governments, councils and selections. We've now passed 42 pst. That's good, but not good enough. Maybe we have a particular challenge in getting more women in charge of these samples, but here too we have gone in the right direction under the leadership of this government, from 26 p.m. in 2001 to 28 pst. in 2002. So back to the Income System Committee, which I also mentioned in my introduction as an example of a sample where it is actually not easy to create the broad geographical representation, because there are not many professional environments in this country that have municipal economy and income systems as special. When we know at the same time that the departments that have an important responsibility for core services in the municipality of Norway are actually located in Oslo – that is, where the departments are located – it is not easy to find the broad representation we would like. But here, in fact, local democracy's own body could have contributed to a broader representation, using the local government's own representation to ensure a wider geographical distribution. I think the reduction in the Income System Committee is a very bad example to use if you are looking to see how the Government does not follow up on the work of better representation from District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1168	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1182	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party, Right, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and the Center Party 10 minutes each, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1193	St.meld. No 21 for 2003-2004 deals with greater political governance in the foreign field. The Committee agrees that there is a need for stronger political governance and, as a result, changes in the law. Several points point to the fact that there is an unused control room through regulations, but only the SV and the Central Party will require the Department to control through regulations. The Committee believes that the King of State Council should be the appeal body for decisions in the UDI relating to national security and foreign policy. Everyone, except the Progress Party, will create a big topic in UNE. The Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV assume that the Department will return with the parts of the UN evaluation that the Department does not take up in this round. The same parties believe UNHCR should be given greater weight than today. 10 organisations working among refugees have delivered a common critical opinion to several of the proposals in the message. They justify their skepticism to the ministry's suggestion of authority to instruct UDI in interpretation of laws and judgements, among others. with the following: The Ministry does not have its own proceedings, and thus does not have a direct knowledge of individual or rural matters. They point to the risk of accidental interference at the cost of legal certainty and non-discrimination. The Ministry's letter of hearing is clearly perceived as an attempt at a more restrictive policy. Organisations are also critical of the proposal that the Ministry should be able to challenge positive decisions, and believe that it has serious disadvantages and no advantage when it comes to legal certainty. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party agree to underline that: ‘there is an unused room for political governance through regulation by clearer clarification of key issues such as ‘strong human concern’, ‘special concern’, ‘ immigration policy concerns’, ‘essential issues of doubt’ and ‘special connection with the kingdom’. The Progress Party is in the hands of SV and the Center Party to say that the Department does not benefit from the possibilities they currently have through regulations to have greater control of the foreign field. In the Center Party we are convinced that governance through regulations is the way to go. In the current debate, there will be an advantage for both the foreign authorities, the case handlers, the counsellors and the individual seeker to ensure carelessness, stability and greater non-discrimination than at present. It's not like regulations take a long time. We emphasize that an extension through a regulation can thus secure a hearing, with previous democratic processes. The Labour Party secures the Regening plural when it applies to general instruction authority over UDI in relation to interpretation of law and discretion. The working party also ensures the ability to review a positive decision in the UDI. The foreign field, and especially refugee policy, is an area in which the Christian People's Party seems to have changed its vision and its side. In this setting, we see it in at least three areas, for the first when it comes to looking at the value of regulations. The Bondevik I government announces emptying regulations; they indicate a review and a clarification in relation to human concern. Now the Christian People's Party has a different vision. Secondly, the Christian People's Party in the creation of the UN was aware that in asylum matters the main rule was that a call to meet in the Foreign Study should be met. In asylum-like cases, it was stressed that access should be easier the greater the impact the decision would have on the applicant. Now an evaluation of the topic of Foreign Affairs shows that at this point UNE has not followed up. It is then regrettable to note that today's Christian People's Party defends the practice that is today, a practice that is therefore not correct, which pointed to the selection that evaluated the Foreign Study. The central part and SV mean that this needs to be corrected. The Christian People's Party is also surprising in its position when it comes to the composition of grandma. That's the third point. They tend to go high on the ground when it comes to voluntary organisations. For the composition of major topics, organisations have requested that they be represented by two out of seven members. From the Center Party's side, we thought it was a proper claim. When the first subjects were created, two from the organizations met. They were later reduced to one, so that today they are one of three. Organisations themselves have pointed out that it is difficult for them to be eleina and represent a seventh. It's the same one from ten heavy organizations in this field that emphasizes it. In this setting, the Committee also addresses a number of issues on its own initiative. It is the practice of the 48-hour rule, i.e. the one to apply to those who believe are groundless asylum seekers. A number in the committee believe that appeal proceedings should take place before the individual is sent out of the country. It shouldn't be a measure to extend the suspension to any particular extent, we think this can go very quickly, but we think it's neat and most straightforward with regard to legal certainty that it happens that way. We also want this rule to exclude work on weekends, so that one does these 48 hours something. UNHCR's perception of Norwegian refugee policy is also made clear. From the Central Party's point of view, we find it alarming that the UNHCR's visit to Geneva to the Committee expressed a great surprise at the fact that Norway had reduced the number of quota refugees. We know that they also have objections to the practice of Norway when it comes to return. This concerns, inter alia: on return to Iraq. The government claims to provide only a voluntary return. There is not so much ‘voluntary’ in the return per year. date. This means that even now the IOM, the organisation that Norway is using, has reported passports. The so-called MUFs' situation is also being drawn up. We know that UDI has taken an initiative and wants to deal with the issues that have not been dealt with, with a view to being present. They point out that this is largely about people who both work, have houses and are well integrated. The Central Party and SV stand alone to ask the Government to carefully assess both the initiative taken by the UDI and that the Foreign Affairs Department has a different view and come back to the Stortinget in connection with it. Finally, the Centre wants a strict immigration and refugee policy, but believes that there should be greater room than today for human consideration. I see that the Council of State is now going to elaborate on how it has thought about that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1232	Through the establishment of the Foreign Affairs Department in 2001, Stortinget amended the law so that the Ministry could no longer instruct the Foreign Affairs Directorate in foreign affairs, as it could then do. Today, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs of the Council of State, as a well-known governing practice in foreign affairs, can only change the legislation. There is one exception, and there are issues where security policy and foreign policy considerations are at stake. So here, the Council of State can intervene. The change in the law in 2001 has now been effective for three years, and it is time for a new review of such a complex regulatory framework. Has this worked out the way we meant and wanted it to do, or has it not been after the intentions of a majority in the Storting? There may, of course, be more conclusions to that, and I will deal with what the Workers' Party believes. We were the ones who put the matter before the Storting, and we were the ones who got the majority for our vision that time. But that doesn't mean everything just has to be the way it is. And when the Workers' Party is criticized by the Advance Party in the setting because we believe the Government does not use the governance room that is still in today's rules, the Advance Party must read the letter from the Government Council dated 19 May this year, where she herself makes this clear. However, although there is such an area of action today, we still believe that there is a need for changes to the current law, changes so that the ministry can again provide UDI with general instructions on the interpretation of the law and the exercise of judgement on matters for treatment. Such a change will meet the need for better political governance, and that is desirable from our point of view. When the Workers' Party went in to move the management of individual cases from the Department to the UN in 2001, this was among other things. supported by large-scale pressure from policy-makers and specialist councils from individuals and groups in the field of asylum. However, although policymakers and state councils have not been able to intervene in individual cases in the three years, pressure has probably been widespread throughout. However, many individual things have moved to us. The same applies to groups of people who have applied for asylum in this country. With an open size as it is here in the country, it's hard to get away from this. It may have its advantages and disadvantages. For many asylum seekers, it is unusual to have such an open road to central politicians, and there can soon be an impression and an expectation that cannot be met. It's unfortunate. The Working Party considers that it is important that the proceedings relating to individual cases remain outside the Department and the Stortinget, and is in favour of it. At the same time, however, we agree that it is important to clarify political responsibility and that there is consistency between policy objectives and the practice of the Foreign Affairs Act. With today's practice of governance through laws and regulations, this is a time-consuming process. In the immigration field, we all know that things can happen quickly. Then a time-consuming process of legislative and regulatory changes is too long to bring about changes. It is not acceptable in some cases. There is therefore a need to make some changes. The working party is therefore in favour of the proposed change, so that in some cases UDI can be instructed by the Council of State. However, there is reason to note that this does not mean that individual decisions taken by the UDI should be able to be revoked or set aside, unless they prove to be invalid. However, such a review will guide future decisions. That's an important clarification. SV and the Central Party state in their comments that only the positive decisions are to be assessed, in other words: a more stringent immigration policy is to be introduced. That's not right. The current government authority will be general and will take both positive and negative decisions. The working party is also in favour of the creation of a major title. Such a reference shall consider fundamental issues, decisions by the UDI and cases where there are trends to different practices in the UNE and UDI. There is currently no such mechanism to ensure a level playing field in UDI and UNE. This can lead to unequal treatment, inconsistent decisions and wrong decisions, which affect asylum seekers in particular. The function of the scoreboard will be to ensure equal treatment through the fact that decisions in the grand jury will be precedent-making. The working party agrees that it would be unreasonable to ask for full consideration of matters which obviously have no element of doubt in themselves. However, we believe that more matters than today should be dealt with in full. And it should be a prerequisite for the complainant to meet in the name, if there is doubt about the outcome. In addition, we believe that the Storing Communication addresses only some of the evaluation report’s proposals for improvements to the UN, and the majority, the Labour Party, SV, the Progress Party and the Centre, expect the Government to return with an appropriate follow-up to the other parts of the evaluation. The Workers' Party is also committed to the creation of a common unit for landscape knowledge. We believe that legal certainty will continue to be ensured by the fact that all decision-making bodies will continue to verify the facts. They have an obligation of investigation which means that if they consider that insufficient or incorrect country information is available, they may return a case and ask for supplementary information. Then I'll give you an explanation of vote. In its proposal for Decision II, the Stortinget Government reorganises the 48-hour procedure to deal with the complaint to an presumed groundless asylum seeker before the asylum seeker is sent out. I would recommend that the Members of the Labour Party vote against II. The reason for this is that the Workers' Party has been to introduce the 48-hour procedure, and believes that it has worked well. There may be grounds why the applicant should stay in the country until the review procedure is completed. But after several rounds on how long this will take, that will mean that extra resources will have to be deployed, and that there will be a discrimination between the issues dealt with under the 48-hour procedure and other issues that are obviously groundless, we do not believe that we can vote in favour of such a change now. We also refer to the letter from the Council of State dated 3 June 2004. There is also a harmonisation debate within the EU on precisely this issue of the presumed groundless asylum seekers, where different procedural options are discussed and where there should be a complaint. There's reason to wait for this result as well. There is also reason to await the Government's evaluation of the case, as the 48-hour rule has only been effective since the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1275	When the foreign student was established on 1 January 2001, it was among other things. a result of strong pressure on politicians and responsible State Councils to continue to intervene in individual foreign affairs. The handling of individual cases was therefore transferred from the department to the UN. It is part of the story that the Right then opposed the creation of the UN, because the Foreign Minister in the form that existed would remove the political responsibility behind the handling of foreign affairs. Well three years later, we note that the scheme has its weak side, which the government now wants to correct by proposing changes to the Foreign Affairs Act. I am pleased to note that the Government has broad support for its proposals to change the governance of the foreign field. Everyone believes it is important that the procedure relating to individual cases remains outside the ministry. At the same time, however, we agree on the importance of clarifying political responsibility and that there is consistency between policy objectives and the practice of the Foreign Affairs Act. The Government is supported by the general rule that the Council of State and the Ministry should have a general authority of instruction and control, but not an authority of instruction in individual cases. The government wants an opportunity to increase the control of UDI decisions and practices. Today, when UDI has taken a negative decision, the legal certainty of the applicant shall be ensured by enabling the applicant as a party to file a UDI refusal for UNE review. However, once a positive decision has been taken by the UDI, no one has the right or the right to re-examine the decision. This implies that there is no control over positive decisions in the UDI, neither in terms of discretionary issues, in terms of the use of law, nor in relation to the assessment of facts. We want to do something about this. But SV and the Center Party won't. I find the criticism from SV and the Center Party strange. It seems to me that these two parties take the government's proposal in the worst sense and ignore the fact that the department wants to follow UDI's practice in general. The opposition, from one side to the other, has accumulated several critical notes in this setting. I find it strange, not least because our government has actually taken action and implemented improvement measures in a number of areas within the foreign field. Overall, there are measures that give us far better control of the field than we have had in the past. This makes me go directly to the rapid handling of asylum matters, which I was saying is against the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party. Now Signe Eye has done well to ensure that the Workers' Party has come up with other and better ideas. But the SV and the Center Party are still opposed. The rest of the lots support the practice of dealing with suspected unfounded applications within 48 hours and of which the applicant shall immediately leave the country in the event of rejection. Any appeal must be promoted from abroad. Several important arguments support this practice. Faster procedure and less inflow are two elements. In addition, it is important that the institution of asylum does not be eroded. In any doubt, the application is withdrawn from the system and added to the ordinary procedure. Legal certainty is ensured even if new procedures are put in place. On the one hand, the opposition will have faster procedures and better measures; on the other hand, they will not be involved in the action. It may be tempting to ask at least SV and the Central Party whether they have thought that by amending the 48-hour procedure, the priority procedure will be changed drastically in relation to the current situation. And won't that make the situation worse? There is a broad majority in favour of the proposal that the King be the Board of Appeal in matters of security policy or foreign policy. Now I see the time is up, President. Then I'll just end by saying a few words about the UNHCR and the criticism there. In Norway, we place great emphasis on what comes from UNHCR, but we must also be allowed to make our own assessments that are relevant to our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1301	In the past, the Ministry of Justice was the Board of Appeal for Asylum and Other Foreign Affairs, as a work permit, etc. Due to high political pressure and a dramatic increase in asylum cases, the Foreign Affairs Department was established in 2001. The party of progress and the right was the only ones who voted against it. Both of these parties had the same basis, that this would eliminate all the power and authority of the responsible state council. It has been an important principle that the responsible State Council could also be held responsible for the decisions taken in the UDI and UNE. At the time of the creation of the UN, political authorities were cut off from all possibilities for intervention, as long as the security of the state was not at stake or individual matters concerned with foreign policy considerations. This has been a hopeless situation. Despite the fact that there have been good reasons to put the responsible State Council to the wall for how individual matters have been settled, the Council of State has always been able to hide behind the fact that in any case nothing has been done in individual cases. For the proposals: the Government's proposal that the Ministry should be able to request that a positive decision in the UDI be dealt with by the UN, is supported by the Progress Party. We also believe that UNE should also be able to review the UDI's discretionary practices. The proposal presented by the Government is relatively outrageous. The fact that the Department will have the opportunity to appeal against a positive UDI decision against UNE is a weak act in order to have political responsibility in foreign affairs. In addition, there is a significant point that it is not foreseen that UNE should be able to over-estimate the UDI’s discretionary use. In ordinary appeal proceedings, where the party to the case complains to UNE about UDI’s decision, the judgement is central. Therefore, it becomes artificial and, not least, brilliant that UNE should not be able to review a decision in the UDI, based on different judgements. Here I would like to make it clear that the Progress Party wants to replace today's UN with a political name, and that this assessment is subsidiary. The Government's proposal that the Department should be able to appeal against positive UNE decisions is also supported by the Advance Party. The fact that the ministry is given the opportunity to allow the court to assess a positive decision in the UN is positive, but it illustrates the length and extent of current practice in foreign affairs. Because UNE's decision is not final, and because political authorities do not have a concrete responsibility, the procedure must be extended with fines. It's critical. I therefore refer to the proposal of the Progress Party for a politically complex foreign student to be able to take final decisions. Then the new process extension will be unnecessary, while at the same time we will facilitate the legal system for ongoing appeals from parties to foreign affairs. The King of the State Council as Board of Appeal: The Government's proposal to make the King of the State Council a Board of Appeal for Foreign Affairs matters affecting the security of the State or having foreign policy implications is also supported by the Progress Party. There are very few individual issues affecting the security of the State or having foreign policy implications. This means that the King of the Council of State will not be bothered with a large number of complaints so that it goes beyond the ordinary work of the office. Moreover, it is worth noting that matters relating to precisely those considerations are of such a nature that it is natural for a political authority at this level to deal with the complaints. Here I will also be allowed to refer to the proposal of the Progress Party in Document No. 8-47 and to the Inst. O. No 89, which is being treated in Odelstinget later today. There, the Progress Party has gone much further than that contained in the Government's proposal. That's because we want that kind of thing to go directly to the Department and the Council of State. The Government's proposal that the Coordination Committee should be replaced by a major issue is supported under doubt by the Progress Party. We believe that the composition should be changed, so that laymen are replaced by political representatives, all the time to make precedent decisions on how to set up the country's handling of foreign affairs. We have therefore put forward a proposal that the major subject should be composed of three directors, including the Director of the United Nations, a representative from the Government and one representative from each of the three largest parties on the Stortinget. UNE is divided in such a way that complaints which are clearly groundless are dealt with by the Secretariat. Things with a little more doubt are dealt with by the denominator, while matters which are of a deeper principle nature, and which involve doubt, are dealt with by a full mention. A full name consists of a negotiator who leads the negotiations, and selected laymen. 90 pst. by all complaints received by UNE are dealt with by the Secretariat. It says something about the need for an extension of the case procedure. It must therefore be possible to consider a major issue as unnecessary in view of the nature of the appeal. However, the Progress Party believes that there is a need to ensure that all the decisions of the denominator are consistent with each other. In a legal certainty perspective, it is irrelevant that similar cases are treated differently. These included: this Coordination Committee should take care of. Since the new major topic will replace the Coordination Committee and the decisions will have a precedent, there is a basis for claiming that this is only a better arrangement of existing solutions. The right of the Ministry to ask for cases to be dealt with on a grand scale is a moment of change, all the time this gives more political authority in the case. However, the proposal for a new major issue is no more than a fine for the lack of current organisation of complaints handling of foreign affairs in the context of political governance. I refer here again to the alternative proposal of the Progress Party to replace UNE with a name composed of representatives of the political parties. The Progress Party also believes that there could have been more in the organisation of a major topic to underline political responsibility for foreign affairs. The Progress Party believes that laymen should be replaced on a grand scale, as I have said before. It would have signaled more clearly that it is the political authorities that will decide how to deal with foreign affairs. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when we now support a major topic, it is subsidiary, to replace the political name that the Progress Party wants instead of UNE. I can already signal that the party at the next crossroads may have to come back with its own Document No. Eight proposals for the abolition of UNE. The creation of a common land-use unit: the Progress Party is somewhat doubtful when the Government proposes to establish a common land-use unit for UDI and UNE, but will note that a decision in foreign affairs does not necessarily have to be justified within the recommendations of the Department. In an effort to achieve as short a period of time as possible and to ensure that decisions are taken in a good manner, it is positive that a separate geographical area should be set up. In addition, there has been criticism of the UN that parties under the Administrative Act have not been given access to important documents in their own case. However, a challenge is that such a unit should act as an independent professional body, without the ministry being able to instruct on the interpretation or prioritisation of matters. This may lead to problems with forced emigration to countries where there is a political consensus that it is safe to send rejected asylum seekers, while this unit may say something else. The Party clarifies that decisions in the UDI or UNE need not be explicitly justified within the recommendations of the Landscape Department. The most relevant example is that Norway today does not forcibly reject Iraqi asylum seekers to Iraq, while Denmark considers it safe. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal of the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1329	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1332	I experience St.meld. No 21 mainly as an action in the range of restrictions on Norwegian refugee policy, where the Council of State wants more power in several areas. She wants power in individual matters to get the opportunity to bring positive decisions into the Foreign Affairs Department. She wants the opportunity to interpret legislation more quickly without carrying out a consultation. I would like to point out that I noticed that Kari Lise Holmberg thought that we read this staging message in a slightly distorted way. But it's impossible not to notice the impact side of the big message, when, for example. The Council of State says that the problem of law and regulation governance. ‘is reinforced by the fact that rapid changes in the environment often lead to re-establishing the powers of government. This could, for example, be the case if a neighbouring country abruptly changed asylum practices in a more restrictive direction. It may then be politically desirable to carry out a corresponding conversion also in Norway, for experience shows that the flow of asylum seekers finds its way where the chance of abstinence is greatest.’ I think it is interesting to assume that the reasons for immigration policy in these cases should outweigh the self-evident considerations of refugee policy, which have initially formed the basis for how we have designed legislation and legislation in Norway. In other words, this is an intrusion also at that point. The emphasis here is that the Council of State and the Government clearly say through the big news that these are the positive decisions in the Foreign Affairs Directorate that they want to monitor, not the negative ones. It is not the negative decisions that are being taken and it seems necessary to monitor whether a new interpretation of the law should be sent to the foreign authorities in order to give a legal instruction on turning in a more positive direction. I am also very excited to see how the definition of ‘invalid’ is going to remain in the bill, as far as the opportunities offered by the foreign student are concerned to reject invalid individual cases resulting from positive decisions in the UDI that are appealed against for the foreign student topic. The second issue, which is central to the Communication, is the question of whether more governance is needed. There's also a total accumulation in that respect saying yes, that's it. It is not satisfactory in the political debate – which often flares up in the wake of individual cases and which often have primal overtones – that we both say on the Grand Council and on the Council of State that we have nothing to do with this, this is for the foreign authorities to manage. The state councils have certainly contributed to the fact that this view is the prevailing and prevailing perception among the majority of people. But the point is that such a view of today's reality is not right. The reality is that the Council of State has the opportunity to intervene with regulations to a greater extent than she has done, which she herself confirms in a letter to the Stortinge on the matter. There's a lot of room to make regulations. When I went into the evaluation report prepared by Knoff on the scope of the Foreign Study, it became clear that the foreign authorities – and in particular the Foreign Education Department – have asked for clearer regulations on a number of points, without leading to the submission of these regulations by the Council of State. These are key issues such as stronger human interests, immigration policy considerations and the concept of ‘relationship to the rich’, which are particularly central to expulsion issues. All of this is essential for the administration of the Foreign Affairs Act by the foreign authorities, and it surprises me that the Council of State believes that there is a need for a change in the law, when she herself has not implemented a stronger governance through regulations. I suspect the Council of State in this matter to wish to have stronger governance at a lower level in more limited cases, without having to ensure that the same principles to be applied in the smaller cases apply throughout the field. If you wanted to make fundamental changes across the field, there would have been nothing wrong with implementing this through regulations. I want to go into another point here that the minority is drawing up, namely the question of dealing with denominators. In fact, there has been a decreasing level of treatment under consideration, and Knoff’s report says that it really wants to eliminate the possibility for the Secretariat to take decisions on individual cases. A minority of Stortinget supports the evaluation report in this respect. We think it's strange that you haven't gone into this particular point more strongly on the part of the Council of State and the Government. On this occasion, UNE also stresses that the term ‘significant doubt’, which governs the extent to which cases can be fully addressed, is a point in the law that is not elaborated by regulation, which the Council of State had the opportunity to do. A minority on Stortinget has said on several occasions that we want more cases to be dealt with in full. What I think is particularly serious in this matter is that on the point where there is actually full agreement in the Storting, namely, on the question of party transparency, it seems to me that it has happened too little from the Government. I'll give the council an opportunity to comment on it later. It's at this point, that is. the measures that could have been taken to ensure greater transparency of the parties for each complainant, the Knoff report is clearer in its recommendations and concrete assessments. Again, this is a small comment, both from the department’s side and from the majority of the population. I want to spend a little bit of time on the 48-hour practice. The 48-hour procedure, introduced from the New Year, has led to faster treatment and, in the view of the Storting, has been one of the contributions to a reduction in the number of suspected groundless asylum seekers. There is, however, a drop in asylum seekers across Europe, but I think this has been the right thing to do. We await the evaluation report to be submitted to the procedure during the year. However, we want to make some important objections, because we have received such a rapid examination of applications, undoubtedly present some important challenges for legal certainty in each case. This has also been commented on by several different humanitarian organisations. On two important points, the Centre Party, the Working Party and SV have agreed on proposals that have been applauded by these organisations. But I now notice that the Workers' Party, both through letters from the Council of State and obviously in other ways, has been duped to go away from the last proposal. This concerns the proposal to grant access to justice to asylum seekers who are in the 48-hour period while they are in the country. Because the lawyer is present only on the second day of this procedure, in my opinion, there is little opportunity to provide corrective information that would allow the 48-hour run to come out. Very familiar it is probably only one or two cases that have been taken out of the 48-hour cycle during this period, which in itself should be reason enough to try this another time within the system we have today, while he is staying in the country. Nor can I see, as it has been even more recently, with a decrease in work at UNE's offices, some reason why it would be difficult to be ready to carry out a complaint procedure in the last day and extend the 48-hour rule to last a day when you are told that a person will enter the 48-hour procedure. This, in the opinion of the SV and the Central Party, would strengthen legal certainty and make sure that people are properly treated in the 48-hour procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1364	The Christian People's Party participated in the creation of the Foreign Study. We believed that the committee, which was supposed to have a court-like character, would increase the legal security of asylum seekers. There was a particular reason why asylum seekers should meet for discussion and submit their case. It says that one should be able to do it. We have not changed those resolutions. So we assumed that humanitarian organizations with geography would be strongly present in the denominator. They are still. It was also important to get complaint proceedings out of the ministry, and all the parties that have had a government council responsible in this area understand why. So the Council of State was, in a way, cut off in individual matters where it was not about the security of the kingdom. I am pleased that the Government and the Council of State are now getting a little control to ensure that practices in foreign affairs are consistent with policy objectives and priorities. It's the most important thing in this case, as I see it. The Christian People's Party is not ready to bring the individual things back to the Government, just to have it underlined. So it was problematic that this should only apply to positive decisions from the UDI, and that therefore it is only a narrowing. That's not correct. And that's not the point either. Governments are given a general authority to instruct and control in this matter. However, negative decisions in the UDI may be overruled by appeals, both to the UN and to the courts. There will be no positive decisions. The Christian People's Party would stress that we are not disunity in the fact that political governance through regulations is a possibility that can be exploited better. Nevertheless, a slightly more straightforward system, that is, the authority of instruction, is needed, which is now available to the Council of State. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) is concerned that, through the rapid processing of groundless asylum applications, more resources should be allocated to those who should receive a broader treatment or who should perhaps be allowed to be here. The Christian People's Party felt it was positive that the 48-hour rule has led to a fall in the number of applications that one reckons are groundless. But in the very least doubt, and I would like to stress this, the application is to be withdrawn from this system and treated individually or in the same way as applications from other asylum seekers. If there is doubt that this is a baseless application, he should not be treated as a groundless application. We note that many complain that the complaint handling process is not real when it has to be done from home country after the 48-hour rule. But I see that there is a great danger that the 48-hour rule will become the 48-day rule if we accept complaints from Norwegian soil. We thus argued that groundless asylum seekers have a baseless application, but that the complaint should of course be dealt with seriously when he arrives. The UN regulations were that one should strengthen legal certainty. The Christian People's Party would therefore stress that only completely groundless complaints can be rejected by the Secretariat alone. Otherwise, I would like to make it clear that UNE will also be given 90 pst. of the cases. That's a pretty high number. But ten pst. So the asylum seeker goes his way. There is reason to note that after so many rejections, the judicial system still works and changes some rejections, even though they have gone through all instances of complaints and first have been given full support at the end. The Christian People's Party also gives its support to a major topic, and that the denominator is to replace the existing coordination selection. There are different opinions about who should sit in a grand jury. The government has a broad approach. The majority in the committee believe that the humanitarian organisations should have two members. I have a certain sense of it, I'll admit it, but I'll also stress that the humanitarian organizations will in any case be represented. The Christian People's Party sees it as the government has an approach that takes care of multiple instances. So we've found that we can agree to that. What is very important with humanitarian organisations is that they represent a knowledge of the situation in the country from which the asylum seeker comes. They have one geography. The evidence is often based on the belief of asylum seekers. All institutions then also have an independent obligation to verify the factual basis. So even if we now get a common division of land skills in UDI and UNE, there are a number of agencies that want to know the facts about the country in these cases. So I would like to stress that recommendations from the UNHCR are added very much weight in Norway – otherwise it would just be missing. The Christian People's Party will point out that no one is being forced to return to Iraq today. We have also noted the UDI's statements about those with the MUF status, but we do believe – and it does seem to the whole committee – that these are individual matters and that they need to be treated elsewhere than in this room. I just want to stress that we have noticed what has been said about them, but this is not the place to treat it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1394	The background to the big message we are currently receiving is primarily my experience of the functioning of the foreign field, and that there was a need to correct the course of the reform implemented by the governance and management of the foreign field. I think it's a bit paradoxical to experience that those who are at least willing of the political parties to provide effective governance instruments, even if I collect the piles of written questions about individual issues that are turned into principles, represent those who have stood for the greatest piles of such a context, and who, in the media, would like to make the Council of State responsible for matters that are believed to have major principal aspects, but where in a number of them it would be absolutely impossible to imagine that one could regulate and get other results. It's not because I find it uncomfortable to be responsible for matters or anything in that context, which is important, but it's actually that in the foreign field we have the smallest political governance of some independent complaint bodies and other that exist within the Norwegian public administration. So it's paired with the law that has the largest margin. I have to say that the two things are not directly related to each other. At the top of it all, making this a very big political topic in this country will be a very difficult situation. I also think that the voters have a lot of problems in realizing that on the one hand they've taken on the role of being in opposition to everything that's going on, and on the other hand they've somehow shifted most of the responsibility away from finding solutions. I agree that there is more room for writing regulations than what we have used, but not in relation to a number of issues where regulations would never be a possible tool. Regulations can be used to clarify principles and areas. I am not thinking primarily of asylum, which is derived from our international conventions and obligations, but for example. on the large number of foreign affairs we have in the administration, where sometimes the legislation may not have to be interpreted so squarely, and that a rapid change can be made because it is seen that the legislation becomes too square. Then it's not just regulatory, but there's a lot of small things, for example. related to work permits, school stays and that kind of question, where it is also perceived as unreasonable that we cannot do anything about it without having a process requiring a regulation to be consulted. But then there are some important, great principles that, although we get this access, of course should be regulated. One of them is the questions related to the concept of ‘strong human interests’. But the question of this with strong human considerations I have answered several times from this pulpit during this period. We gave a mandate to the Committee on Foreign Affairs to review the issues related to the concept of ‘strong human interests’. We are waiting for the foreign law commission's investigation, which unfortunately is delayed, to have a basis to also see whether it is legally, in the legal text, to do something about it, or whether it needs to be regulated in a different way. So we're aware of that. But there are also long processes just to define some of these heavy, difficult concepts. But we'll get back to that. I would like to stress that I am pleased that we are basically getting an impact on this. I don't think the message primarily reflects the positions that the Right had on the previous treatment, but it's an attempt to adjust the rate somewhat, so we get a better grip. The Committee considers the question of using the recommendations of the UNHCR. To that I would say that we put great emphasis on UNCHR's assessments in many cases, especially in matters related to the need for protection. But I have to make it clear that the UNHCR comes with a lot of reports and questions that are not about protection needs. It's basically about two different things. One is a need for protection and the other is a need for capacity. Here we have a different political stance than the UNHCR on the question of whether we should wait until all the refugees in the neighbourhood have come home first, and then we should bring those who have come even further away. Why do we have a different attitude to that bit of capacity? Well, because that's when we get the long wait, which we see as a problem, because the applicants are partly integrated into Norwegian society before they're returned. And that's when we discover a secondary movement in the world, that when the neighbourhoods are emptied, some of them move, because they don't want to go home, and seek asylum in the other countries. That's why we haven't always agreed with the High Commissioner that we can wait until one has cleaned up the local environment, and then come with ours, because this is a human tragedy, not least for the children who might then have lived two to three years somewhere, then to be returned. So we can't always focus on what the UNHCR says, because it's not always just a question of protection. It is often also a question of how to organise the return trip, and there I think a lot of the Norwegian debate shows that we have to do something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1415	The Workers' Party agrees that the Council of State needs to have control of both positive and negative decisions taken by the UDI, if the assessments will not have retroactive effect, for valid decisions to be indicative of future practice only. However, the SV and the Central Party claim in the vote, and also here in the debate today, that the power now granted to the Council of State is merely an assessment of positive decisions. So this is going to be a contraction. My question to the municipal minister is: can the municipal minister confirm that the mandate applies to both positive and negative decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1422	Today, negative decisions can be reviewed and, to a large extent, they will then be reviewed by UNE. Then part of UNE's assessments in individual cases will be pre-emptive for the same type of case in retrospect. There is no number. 2-assessment of positive decisions, which is why we have considered this to be inconsistent with the decisions. We could choose to let the ministry go into some of these positive issues, but we've been concerned that the most important thing about the positive issues is not the simple decision, but whether they create precedents like that. gives ring effects that we may disagree with. And in order to maintain the independence of individual cases, we think it would be better to ask UNE to go through the cases and see if there are precedents that make the decisions that have been taken should not be valid for other types of decisions later. That's why it might look unsymmetrical, but it's actually because we're now making symmetry with a dual treatment and assessment of things that don't exist in today's law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1427	There are two areas I would like to challenge the Council of State. The first is a simple question. Are the structural changes that are now being made in foreign governance, changes based on the decline in asylum influx to Norway, or are we building a structure where we need to have 10 000 – 15 000 asylum seekers to Norway? The second is in the 48-hour procedure. I must first be allowed to say that the Progress Party is very pleased that the Stortinget almost gives honor to something that the Progress Party has been working for for many, many years and has had an impact for now. But my question to the Council of State is, we know that still gets between 70 and 80 pst. of all asylum seekers coming to Norway, before or after rejection. There is reason to believe that there are several asylum seekers who are believed to be groundless. Is that why we might be able to assess the extension of the 48-hour procedure with a view to catching up also other groundless asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1434	The structures we build here, which are legal structures for dealing with matters, are completely independent of the number of people that might come. I would like to remind you that the majority of decisions taken in the foreign field are decisions relating to residence cases and not to asylum cases. Overall, if there is a significantly lower number of complaints, this could lead to us, for example. must reduce the size of UNES and UDI. But I don't think the legal structures depend on it. For example, perhaps the biggest structural change within UNE is the issue of setting up a major topic. And I think the big deal is that we're going to need as long as we don't get down to a very small number of denominators. Today we have 15, as far as I can remember. As far as the 48-hour procedure is concerned, what we're doing, and what we've been asking UNE examined, is the question of whether we can have a prewriting of anyone who comes, to see if they're assumed groundless or not. But I've also said that we only do that if we're sure that we can follow the legal security issues well, and if we can make sure that it doesn't become a more expensive process because we have to deal with a case twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1441	I have a follow-up question, since the Council of State did not take the opportunity to respond to my challenge in relation to the 48-hour procedure. We believe that if you want, you can extend the 48-hour procedure by 24 hours and create a 72-hour procedure, and in that case UNE had a complaint procedure carried out on the second day to assess whether you are going to be taken out and assured to stay in the country while the procedure is going on, or whether you are going to have a final rejection. I guess no one, so far, has received a positive decision after they left the country, and it means in my opinion that here it should be possible to do a decent job one day extra. However, the Council of State in its letter uses its time to say that this will have consequences for all other obviously groundless applications. We disagree. We wonder if the Council of State can explain why it is not possible to extend this procedure by one day?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1450	It is fully possible to extend the procedure to have a one-day review in retrospect. However, this would mean that this complaint procedure had been prioritised rather than the complaint procedure for persons who have been here for a long time, and would probably have extended the appeal procedure for all other types of cases. We had to concentrate more resources there, and with today's 48-hour rule, we had given better treatment to those who are in the 48-hour process than to all the others – who are quite rightly a much larger group – and where, after asylum treatment, which is characterised as groundless, there is no suspensive effect. Then we had shifted the time for all the other matters that had to be dealt with properly. We had spent more resources on the 48-hour process. And if we weren't going to send out all the others who are groundless asylum seekers, we would actually have discriminated in a way that we think is unreasonable. We are absolutely convinced that this would have become a significantly more expensive process than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1455	I want to follow up a little in relation to the topic of 'human concern', because the Council of State almost rallied over some of the questions she received from the Stortinge to answer them in writing. To that I would say that it is the individual issues that give Norwegian refugee policy a face, and I believe it is well aware that very many of the issues are just creating wonder in many communities, because they cannot understand that there is no human concern. It is certainly not that the Council of State cannot, if it wants to, give priority to creating a regulation in relation to this with human concern, because it could have done so even if it has seen down a foreign law selection, all the time it has actually planned both a big-time message and a proposition. My other question is in relation to the listening round in relation to the proposition. Is the Council of State impractical in relation to the objections it has received? Is there anything she can notify that she will change in relation to the message? In that way, it would be interesting for Stortinget to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1462	I haven't been talking about things. But I think it's striking that there are representatives from the same parties who won't give more political direction, who in the day-to-day run policies to demand more political direction from those who have then been deprived of the opportunity to do so. I think that is a timely indication to make in relation to how this debate develops. When it comes to the issue of this with strong human considerations, it's like creating a regulation that's going to last a long time, it's defining legal concepts a rather heavy and complicated case, including regulatory ones. And then you have to use some investigative capabilities and other things. And once we've given that investigative job to the Foreign Law Committee, it's also natural to wait until they're done with them. When it comes to the question of whether we want to make changes to the hearing, I would say that we are not done with it. But the important thing we did was decide to send a big message to the Stortinget to make sure that the politicians responsible for making foreign policy were told their opinion before we made the bill itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1471	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1476	I'll be pretty short. First of all, I want to follow up on the last thing that was said here. It's the lines from the SV and the Center Party's side that we want stronger political governance. But we think, just as with other directorates, that having regulations is the way to go, over this general instruction. We also believe that a good part of these requests, which the Council of State does not like, but which tell us about the refugee policy for which she is responsible today, could have been avoided, because it would have been a clearer regulation to stick to. Then I need to discuss two other themes. It only applies to the group that received a collective protection in the form of a so-called MUF status. The UDI has taken an initiative and, in response to the Committee, the Council of State has said that it will consider UDI's initiative and UNE's view in relation to each other. I share what has been said, for example. from Anita Apelthun Seele, that this is a matter which in this round is not suitable for Stortinget. But it is true that in its time it was actually an initiative from a Council of State and a government that, with the support of the Stortinge, gave this protection for a period of time. And it's so that these are individuals who have an undecided status and who are currently unable to return, and where UDI has taken an initiative. Then it has also been produced by Kari Lise Holmberg as if the Council of State, in order to have good contact with the UDI, must have this ability to instruct. I ask the Council of State to reject that. I assume that it is such that she, as the top responsible in this field, has good contact with the UDI, regardless of the new authority that she now receives. In the end, I will mention an important question that has not been raised in the message, but which will be recorded in the listening note that has now been out. It is the restriction proposed in relation to its availability to accept conversion requests. There I only have a strong invitation to the Council of State to look very carefully at the objections raised by the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1489	I registered that the Council of State found it something that individual parties in Stortinget did in this matter, striking. I think it is striking and must be allowed to comment that the Council of State Solberg is the Council of State in a government that has Norway's record in the number of asylum seekers to Norway, a government that has taken over after two governments that have made sure that the increase has been of the character we are now seeing. I also want to make it clear – if I am allowed – that since the Council of State is also head of the Right, and probably also the largest guarantor of a socialist government after 2005, we might be able to talk about other things that are striking. But what I registered in the reply box with the State Council earlier was that there was no correlation between the changes that I understood were made in relation to the management conditions in the foreign field, and the number of asylum seekers. Then I take it for granted that we have had a huge influx of asylum seekers into Norway, not in any way affecting the changes that have now been proposed by the Government in this matter. Then is my challenge to government and state council: why do we then make these changes, when the council itself points out that the Right was in a completely different situation and of a completely different opinion when those changes were made in 2001? Of course, the structural changes made here have a strong bearing on the number of asylum seekers coming to Norway. In the case of a major UN body and the procedure to be followed there, it needs to be structured according to the number of asylum seekers arriving in Norway. I'm not going to challenge the state council and comment on this any more. I'm just recording what's being said in this context. It shall be gratifying to look at the proposition to follow up this message, the indications, leads and wishes of the Government in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1503	I just need to be allowed to repeat at the outset to the Progress Party: it is not that the Progress Party feels there has been a need to reduce the number of groundless asylum seekers. They have thought that there has been a need to reduce the number of asylum seekers. And these are two substantially different positions. I stand for the first position. I have a few things that I still feel the need to challenge the minister, because I feel that it is not answered thoroughly enough to the questions I am asking. That's why I'm going to put them one more time. One of my questions is about quick procedure. Is it so that the Council of State believes that it will be significantly more expensive to treat them — how much was it? – 84 cases that have occurred during the first quarter, the next day, instead of dealing with them later, let's say two weeks later, four weeks later, which is the practice that you are in today? Is it true that it would be significantly more expensive to deal with them more quickly in such a case? I don't understand. I think it has to be a logistical question. The second question is about political governance. I find it fascinating that the Council of State is responding so openly and honestly to what is Signe Øyes's question, and thus confirms what is the claim of the Central Party and SV in the setting of the Stortinget, namely that you want to monitor the positive decisions, because you believe that there is already an asymmetry in the system today. But I think it's interesting. If you just want to make sure you try all the decisions that you think are questionable, twice, this is a good starting point. But if you want and have ambitions for stronger political governance, for a government council, it has to be just as interesting about the Foreign Directorate going on a too strict line, as if they were on a too positive line. But the Council of State is not interested in getting an investigation and reporting on it, and I think it is strange, and I would like to stress the points of the Central Party and the SV. I just want to underline what has emerged in the debate, namely that there is a large minority, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Centre, who want to strengthen the role of humanitarian organisations in a magnificence, to which we are all positive, but we want to strengthen the humanitarian organisations. So that's the last question that the Council of State didn't answer. It's going through parties. The message says that it agrees with what is stated in the report that this must be done in relation to the transparency of the parties. That's good. But it's been 14 months since this report came. What is my question to the Council of State is: Is it such a thing that has happened in the field of Foreign Affairs – in the UDI as well, but is it the Foreign Affairs Department that is specifically addressed in the report – that strengthens the transparency of the parties and the right to express the opinion of those who are complainants in the process? If not, what kind of concrete thing is the Council of State going to grab hold of?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1518	I shall not be invited to a general political debate, which was carried out experimentally by the representative of Sandberg. I just want to say that in terms of the structure and the legal here, it doesn't matter the number, but of course it can allow an opportunity to do something about the number of asylum seekers. It will depend on how you choose to use e.g. a right of instruction. This means, among other things: that you can do things faster than today, and that's why what we've proposed, that we can go in faster and look at changes without having to clarify the question of whether we have to do it through a regulation or not. In this way, it provides the basis for something to happen, but in itself, that does not mean that these changes that will come will change depending on the number of asylum seekers we have. As far as requests for conversion are concerned, we are looking at the hearings. I don't want to comment on it any more. We will return this matter to Stortinget, who will, if necessary, adopt amendments to the law. I want to underline one important thing in terms of MUF matters and other foreign affairs. I believe that one of the most important legal certainty mechanisms is the issue of individual handling of cases and non-discrimination of cases. This means that it is the individual situation of the individual who should be the starting point in dealing with issues concerning whether or not a person should be here. I am quite certain that what underlies our foreign territory is our obligations. When so many of them have actually been able to go home before, and have done so voluntarily – that there has been a significant activity across the border – I do not feel that they have even been involved in staying for so long in Norway. Of course, being at work and in Norway is more attractive, but I believe that non-discrimination should be the same as in other countries, and then it is not decisive what authorisation he originally had. It has been a long time since those authorisations ceased to exist. With regard to the question of party transparency, we have asked UNE to go through this and make proposals to find out how we can target, so that we get better party transparency. That's not all you can do. For example, it's very important where the information comes from, so we don't blow into people who give us information about the human rights situation in other countries, because sometimes those who complain are actually associated with governments in countries with strong negative human rights traditions. It's important for us to secure that kind of information in the future. As for the question of symmetry, the point is that we follow the negative decisions. We get annual reports from the U.E. that tell us about developments in the individual areas. We follow that practice, but we also need to follow the positive decisions more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1531	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3065]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1546	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1555	A childhood is short. A secure childhood is decree No. 1 for a harmonious growth life. Being on the run year after year and living with an unexplained situation over a long period of time creates, of course, poor conditions for a healthy childhood. This is why a joint committee has said that the procedure for children and families seeking asylum in Norway must be short and the effectiveness of negative decisions must be avoided. This has not happened to a number of children who are currently living in Norway. Some have been here for five to six years, and it is improperly special to listen to a 12 to 13-year-old who has been here since she was six to seven years old, and she speaks sounding mountainesque, asking: What do I have to do in Iran? Do you want to travel there, maybe? I have nothing to do with that country. Regardless of the reasons why these children have been living in Norway, we have the responsibility to secure the children's rights laid down in Norwegian law. For this reason, a group of committees have asked that all children and families with children who have bid in Norway for more than three years should be asked for a new treatment. We shall therefore come up with proposal No. 2 of Document No 8:50 a meeting. So the leading thing for the assessment is how long they actually have been in Norway. Then, on behalf of the majority, I must say that in the event of a mistake, there has been a misrepresentation in the committee's recommendation, on page 2, second column, where it says: ‘The Committee considers it reasonable to include, as a minimum, all those who have received a first rejection of their application from 1 July 2003.’ The word ‘first’ shall be deleted, the whole of which refers to ‘final refusal’, which appears in the preceding sentence. And I would like to make it clear on behalf of the whole committee that no one will interpret the 'first refusal' as it says in that sentence, as if the children who have been denied such a right will, of course, have a right that they already have after the first refusal in our system of appeals. But the plural number is the safest way to delete the word "first" so that no misunderstanding can occur. This concerns the final rejection from 1 July 2003. But this is the way – as I ask for one to notice – that if there are new moments in one case, one at all times has the right to re-test the case when one asks for it. This matter, which is now being dealt with in this Chamber, is to be seen as a new moment for anyone who has been here for more than three years – it is settled. A mass cluster underlines that a new treatment must be based on a shy assessment based on the child’s specific situation, human considerations and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 3, which states that the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration. It is also important that the children are listened to in the new treatment, and the child must be given the main focus. In the interests of legitimacy and trust in the administration of foreign affairs, it is also important that matters are assessed by a new case handler, which is otherwise in line with good administrative practice. We ask the Ministry to set a new deadline for applications until 1 July. The Committee is also concerned that the proceedings should be carried out expeditiously. These children must skip to wait, wait and wait even more. The majority also believe that the children and family members should be in Norway until the cases are settled. The decision shall not be taken by any of the parties to the proceedings. We don't have an amnesty printed. So, of course, we can't guarantee everyone that they'll have a rest period. But the country's National Assembly is thus as clear a statement as possible. This should be heard and the best interests of the child should be given priority. Enough, it's not acceptable to let children live for years in uncertainty about life and the future. And then I want to make it clear that this is a one-time matter, and the committee is busy working systematically to ensure a process that prevents children from getting too long unsolved in Norway in the future. We will not have a new, similar round of long-term children in three to four years' time. Nevertheless, we see that the issue is not simple, nor is it unique to Norway, and the Committee therefore asks the Government to resolve the issue and then come back to Stortinget with a settlement in its own hands. This is also the first proposal in Document No. 8:50 to some extent meet. I recommend this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08.ana.ud2038e1586	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late. The new meeting will be set at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
