ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e143	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Stortinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e158	The President will ask that the first speakers in his speech address proposals that apply to all the frameworks, even though we are now starting on the Ministry of Culture's budget. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Management, the President will propose that the debate on the budgetary position be divided into two, so that the framework 3 is first dealt with by the Ministry of Culture and then by the framework areas 1 and 2. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that each of the debates be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. In addition, State Councils shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes after each of the debates. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e171	What we are going to adopt today is the fourth and last cultural budget in this period. It's time to sum up a little bit: what happened? What has been achieved? What goals have been achieved during these four years? When the current Minister of Culture took over in the autumn of 2001, she inherited a cultural budget which, fortunately, was continued with the exception of some cuts, a cultural budget presented by the previous Minister of Culture, Ellen Horn, and which contained a considerable commitment to culture. In the autumn of 2002, however, a government budget was submitted which was so poor on the cultural side that the Council of State saw the need to write on the first page that one did not even fulfil the ambitions she had in the field of culture. In the autumn of 2003, we were told that unfortunately there could not be any major investments in 2004 either, because we now had to wait for the cultural message to be addressed. It was pointless to get bigger bets going before the big cultural announcement had finally been addressed in spring 2004. That is why we saw the cultural budget in 2005 with an enormous expectation. Now, finally, three years' waiting time would be over. It was as if the Advent season was over, and the Christmas evening stood at the door. Unfortunately, we have to say that those expectations were not met. On the contrary, we look at the cultural budget that good, important areas of action that are mentioned in the Culture Communication are still waiting for – I don't know, I – next Christmas, or at least another occasion. There are a few construction projects that get the big money, the others get zero – not even price adjustment – or back to, in some areas, cut. We can conclude that this ageing period has been a long break in the field of cultural investment. Where there has been a bet, the areas in which plans previously adopted are followed up are: the Opera, the Opera building and a stepping up of the opera business, the National Library – the implementation of the construction – and the ABM message. But even here, you can't follow the agreed plans. In the case of ABM, we're now at 22 million. kr by form. If you're going to take stock of this ageing period, you're going to find that there's one single light point that appears to be a big bet. That's the change in the key that gives the cultural area over 400 million. Extra kroner. But there fought as the well-known party of the Council of State and the other government parties with beaks and claws to prevent the conversion. Hålogaland Theatre also takes a substantial part. However, we also remember here the history, where the Council of State first suggested postponing building indefinitely, but after heavy pressure from the opposition in the Stortinget and not least from all over Northern Norway, the Halogaland Theatre came into operation in the revised national budget half a year later. In April, the parties here competed in the pulpit to be most offensive to culture. We had presented a 15-point programme from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's side for a concrete, offensive and measurable commitment to culture. In connection with that debate, the Council of State in Dagbladet said that it was opening doors, and that the Council of State and the Government parties were equally ambitious. The rapporteur said in that debate on 1 April: ‘If you look at the ambition of the Culture Communication, it also means a dramatic increase in the coming years.’ That drama was lacking in the proposal for 2005. In the case of films, we see that the film production fund is being cut. What was the Council's heartchild in the cultural message, an extension of the purchasing system for sacprose, is missing. There is little or nothing to bet on music, the press stand on the spot rests. There are very few things left of the ‘monthly increase’ that were to come in connection with the follow-up of the cultural message. There's so little going on in the cultural field before we get a real boost. While the children's and family budget is talking about 2 and 3 billion dollars a year in order to implement a kindergarten settlement, while the transport budget is talking about 1-2 billion dollars an increase in order to reach the national level of ambition, while the defence budget is buying frigates that each costs as much as an opera, we are talking about in terms of the cultural budget, perhaps just a few hundred million, which could have made a huge difference. But you haven't. On the contrary, when it comes to setting up the 2005 cultural budget, even the piggy has been culled. You take 158 million. kr out of a fund from Norwegian Typing. It goes without saying that this cannot be a permanent funding of an operating budget for culture, and I fear, if today's Council of State will continue in the next period, what will happen when it's no longer that kind of money buckets to go in and empty to keep Culture-Norway going. Fortunately, the opposition has a different and much stronger willingness to invest in culture. In the cultural budget, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have joined forces on a common initial party remark – and I think that is quite unique – where we describe our commitment. That's what we're saying. ‘These members are in favour of putting more emphasis on art and culture than the Government puts it up to. These members have drawn up the cultural promise, which is a committed and comprehensive commitment to art and culture over the next 10 years.’ We put money where our mouth is, to say it in American. We follow up in action in the budget what we say in fine words when dealing with the cultural message. That's what counts for all film artists, for writers, for musicians, for all those who work in the cultural schools around Norway, that we actually follow up what we say in concrete terms. There isn't an artist who lives by fine words, except maybe authors, but it's a little bit different from the term. It is the concrete framework conditions contained in grant schemes, in appropriations, in institutions, that count. From the Workers' Party's side, we're adding 200 million to the cultural budget. kr. The museums get 20 million. kr of them. We think it is dramatic that the ABM message is not being followed up. We have promised all those who have gone into a tough consolidation process, that they would follow the money along the way. Then we believe that it is a breach of promise when you can't follow it, and that this can actually put the whole consolidation process at risk. We believe that Norwegian film success should be rewarded, not punished. It is especially true that when the Storting has imposed otherwise so tax-free government, a scheme for filming is worth 15.6 million. kr in tax bills, in which case the industry itself shall pay the tax bill for crowns. It would be interesting to see if they could have given others, who don't need tax relief, the same framework conditions, that they should pay their own tax bill. Unlike the government parties, we want to invest in regional film funds. What the Council of State has been given is slaughtered in the budget here, you bottle that fund and put it into other ear-marked purposes. Let's add up to 7.5 million. kr. Norwegian music gets an extensive extra bet, festival support, purchase order for phonograms, a new jazz scene and a national folk music scene. Free performing arts has long been underfunded. We know that the scheme under the Culture Council has many times as large an application as a grant. That's going to add up to 20 million. kr. According to Giske, it's going to be 10 million. kr. We want a separate arrangement for dance art. We think that dance has been a stepchild in stage art, come in a different line in relation to the art forms. We want our own support system, so that dance is given a boost. In particular, a government council called the Minister of Volunteers is starting its career with a further cut of free funds. 17 new millions of robbers, and what the Storting put as a premise when the key was changed, is broken in every budget, and there's less money for volunteering than before. We answer by equalizing the cut and also providing an instrument fund of 10 million. kr. We also ensure that the purchasing system expands our budget, so that what was referred to by the Culture Communication as one of the most important initiatives, prosecuting, is put in place. We don't have time for the local economy here, but the difference between the government parties and the opposition on the left-hand side in terms of the local economy also means a dramatic difference in relation to the cultural effort, especially at one of the most important points of the cultural promise, namely the investment in the cultural school. With that, I address the proposals to which we are proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e230	The representative Trond Giske has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e235	It was a canonade from the representative Giske who was essentially about the issue of more money. It's not that strange, because it's basically the only success criterion the Workers' Party is working on: how much more money is it possible to get into the cultural budget. And there was a particular focus on the voluntary sector. So now the Workers' Party has financed its increase of approx. 200 million. DKr, e.g. by cutting the tax credit to non-governmental organisations in the main settlement process. It's about 320 million. kr, which will apply approx. SEK 1.4 billion for the voluntary sector. True, it is a good part of what goes to humanitarian organisations, but we are still talking about very significant amounts to voluntary teams and organisations. And my question is, is there less important money than the money you would have to have directly on the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e242	We have nothing against that tax deduction, but we think it's better that we discuss here in the Chamber how we can channel that money to the best of culture. I think it's a rather worrying way to go if you think that Norwegian cultural life is just going to depend on the private donors, which through tax havens are going to be stimulated to give money. We see that system in other countries. In the United States it's developed, with large private donors. And that's good. I wish that business was much more active and took greater responsibility for important cultural institutions, and worked in the way you see in other countries. But we can't make Norwegian cultural life more and more dependent on it. We need good public funding at the bottom, which not only gives good working conditions, but also the freedom that artists should have. Because it's also about us, that the money should go without any tape. It should be the freedom of expression, the diversity, that is put in the high-seat, and then we need good Community solutions and good public funding mechanisms.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e251	We heard from the Workers' Party that they have to add almost every item and every chapter in the cultural budget. They're going to do that with 200 million. kr. It goes without saying that it is going to be lubricating thinly over everything, without bringing anything constructively new and different. I could imagine asking the representative Geske: is this really just a giant blow to Culture-Norway? Or is it probably a bill for taxpayers? What is it Trond Giske thinks when he boasts of additions to all the items and chapters in the budget, but at the same time only have these 200 million? Who is going to pay this bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e258	Our addition to the cultural budget is detailed in the setting on pages 84 and 85, so you can find all the good purposes we have found space for within a sum of 200 million. kr. That's what's so amazing about culture, that for a sum equal to one hundredth of what every year is given in tax bills, $20 billion, we could get all of this: $10 million. SEK to free stage art, 17 million. SEK to Frifond, SEK 10 million. kr to instrumental funds, a strong commitment to the purchasing system for literature, phonograms, etc. – many fabulous bets. I'm a little sad, because when we talk about bets on asphalted highways, or defenses, or care for the elderly, where you would have to have 30 billion kroner to get everyone alone, or research level of 10 billion, then it's going through the hall. But when you suggest you spend 200 million. kr, a small fraction of the sum, on culture, then comes immediately the requirement for discovery and call for irresponsibleness.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e267	I'm afraid that the representative Geske, when it comes to money, may be in a completely different reality than any former Minister of Culture, whether it be from the Workers' Party or not, has done. I want to focus on one thing, namely the bet on ABM. The representative Geske criticises the Government for the lifting break in the case of the ABM escalation. I have in front of me a printed matter published by the three parties that will form the government from the fall of, and it is interesting to see what they will prioritize when they come back and will have power. This printed matter does not mention bet on ABM. So out of 15 listed points of additions and good purposes in the cultural budget, ABM is not worth a single word. Where is it of all the rhetoric and criticism of the Government? I'm aware that you have added to the budget, because you do that everywhere, but what do you, when you get into government, do with the ABM escalation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e276	Let me first say that I am pleased that the representative Lånke spoke about when the three parties will form government. I guess he's been looking at the polls for the Christian People's Party and already pulled in the years. Even we prefer to implement the election next year, before we conclude that it's going to happen. But of course we hope that will happen. As far as the 15 points of the cultural promise are concerned, they are about what we are going to do in the next majority period and in the future towards 2014. Unlike the Christian People's Party, we do not need to recycle things adopted three to four years ago. We assume that all follow up. But I understand that next year's Christian People's Party will go to the elections to complete the ABM bet in the next period. It should have been completed now. And in particular, the case rapporteur for the ABM message, who knows this sector so well, should be concerned that we get messages from consolidated museums across the country saying that when the money does not come, it creates great frustration for those who have gone through painful processes to merge. That, I believe, is a breach of promise, not a support for those who implement what the Storing has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e284	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e287	Right-wing wants a rigorous cultural policy in which the state contributes to a free and vibrant cultural life. For the Right, it is important that the State instruments, such as legislation and financial contributions, are provided in a way that does not influence or impede the development of cultural life. An independent cultural life should ideally be completely independent of the state. For the Right, the market is not a problem, as the socialist parties often express. For the right, the market is an opportunity and an important corrective cultural life can also grow on. However, history has shown us that the market mechanisms are not sufficient if we also want to impose great demands on cultural diversity and quality. At all times, the museums have played a crucial role in cultural life. Adapting our time and our social system means that the state takes responsibility for compensating where the market does not extend. Therefore, the right supports the public contribution of different schemes to ensuring the breadth, innovation and quality of cultural life. However, extensive public funding must also be accompanied by a wake-up look at the risk of unbundling. A one-sided focus on public funding can provide civil cultural actors who deliberately focus their work on what is politically correct. In a small country like ours, public funds will also be channelled through few bodies, which are likely to be recruited from rather narrow environments. This should call for particular attention in relation to being guided by prevailing tastes that are not necessarily based only on qualitative parameters. Right wants a society with quality in all its parts. Then we can't be afraid to ask for quality in relation to art and culture. Here, the Right clearly distinguishes itself from the Progress Party, which considers that it is not possible to relate to the quality concept of cultural policy, and which therefore concludes that cultural life must largely be referred to the market alone, and that cultural policy should otherwise be directed towards broad groups, among others. targeting voluntary teams and associations leisure activities. On the other hand, the Right distinguishes itself from the socialist parties, which, in our opinion, work according to a single success criterion, namely more public money, supplemented by a constant over negative attitude to everything that has to do with the market. The budgetary procedure of the year illustrates these lines in a good way. The socialist parties overwhelm each other by proposing significant additions evenly to a large number of price-worthy measures. It remains to be seen whether or not the money will be found in the position, and – more interestingly – whether we will then see estimates of clearer priorities than those we can track today. With reference to market opportunities, the party proposing a cut of more than 540 million. kr, which would no doubt mean a raging of important parts of Norwegian cultural life. This is a policy for a culturally poorer Norway, less equipped to meet tomorrow’s challenges, for example, in relation to building a creative society with great capacity for innovation and transformation. For the Right, this year's cultural budget is well in line with the policies that we have set up through the Sem Declaration during this major period. This year's budget represents a significant increase for the cultural field, of a total of 9 p.m., which must be said to be a very good one, in line with the expectations of increased interest in culture that have been in the air after the examination of the cultural communication. This promise provides room for a good overall adjustment for the entire cultural area and for a number of new initiatives, while at the same time implementing important projects. In particular, there is reason to rejoice that we now realize several important building things, such as the Hålogaland Theatre, the East Sami Museum and the expansion of the Glomdal Museum. Some may object that there is a lot of money going to steel and concrete and a little too little to content. There may be, but there is reason to remember that the pressure on new large cultural buildings is great, and that more projects will update in the next few years, for example the cultural houses in Stavanger and Kristiansand, to name a few. It is affordable that the government keeps pressure on the construction business, even though it obviously means heavy burdens on the budget otherwise. Continued investment in the ABM area is also good news. I guess that's $17 million. kr added to this area, with the main emphasis on the National Library and the Swedish Archives. Both of these areas are major and urgent areas of national importance. After two good fiscal years, enough museums had hoped for a similar adjustment this year. The consolidation process is in full swing in many places, and the need for funds to lubricate the reform process is probably very tactile in many places. Although the museums are disappointing, it is important not to lose sight of the objectives of the museum reform but to continue to consolidate around the country within the budget framework. Although the museum reform does not have economic savings as its overall objective, it should also be seen whether the administrative rationalisations that are now taking place in many places can also trigger funds for professional work, as the idea was. It is also important that we now signal from the political environment that the economic efforts promised in connection with the processing of the ABM message have not been forgotten, and that the museum area must be followed up in the years to come. That being said, it is also right to point out the great work done in the library sector, and stress the importance of the ABM reform actually bringing the whole field, that is. archives and libraries as well as the museums. Here there are opportunities for exciting superstructures that can significantly revitalise the entire sector. We've all noticed the very positive developments in film. So the changes that were made in film funding a few years ago, later on, to be successful. However, success must not lead us to stop working to find temporal adjustments in the field of film funding. This is a developing field and new needs will be reported on an ongoing basis. The introduction of a low VAT rate for film production is an example of this. I hope the grip that is now being done will strengthen Norwegian film producers in the years to come. Another example is the emergence of regional film funds in our country. As you know, these funds are based on a recognition that film production can be a profitable activity not only for producers but also for the areas where production takes place. As a starting point, several municipalities and private interests have contributed financially to attracting film production to their areas. In the light of these developments, the Ministry has introduced a new scheme for regional film production in the budget, with a view to infrastructure measures in the regions. This is very positive. However, as the scheme was described, it was not quite good enough in relation to the main task of the regional film funds, namely financial assistance. The Committee has therefore opened up a further definition of the item, opening up the funds to be used for production, including in cinematic contexts. The establishment of regional film funds, as we know them from other European countries, is the political desire of the Right and the other parties in the Committee. However, the setting-up of such funds requires adaptation to ESA requirements, which may have been reflected in the Ministry’s proposals, including: related to the limits set for the proportion of State funding in films. It is important to have a dialogue in the coming year between the regional initiatives, the ministry and key actors in the film environment, with a view to finding arrangements that can function satisfactorily over time. Right is busy contributing to this. Finally, I would like to thank the Advance Party for a good process of budgetary conciliation. At the committee level, we have reached an agreement where, despite ideological differences, we have found a way of counting both parties. We have also noticed that in the conciliation of the Financial Committee on the framework of the budget, we reached a settlement without cuts in the cultural sector. I also want to replicate a little more on the posts of the representative Giske. There's going to be a great deal of numerical magic when you're flaking 200 million. kr. The centre party also has approx. that amount, and SV twice that amount. In fact, through this tax deduction proposed by these parties, we are triggering very significant amounts for the cultural field. Of course, we're not going to replace the cultural budget with private donations. But we have therefore received strong criticism of the development of funding in relation to non-governmental organisations, despite the fact that the amounts have increased. So completely isolated in that area is just the proceeds calculation multiple times the amount that is said to be cut, relative to non-governmental organisations. I can't believe that this is going to be worse for the voluntary sector than the money that we had to lock up through the state budget. The fact that the many enthusiasts and contributors we see around the country, representing their local organisations, must be exclusively positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e332	The entire committee has previously praised Norwegian films for the success they have experienced in recent years. In the culture message setting, Innst. S. No 155 for 2003-2004, the Committee asked for an analysis of how best to invest in films in the regions of Norway and for the establishment of regional film funds. Regional film funds receive a total of 7.5 million. kr in the 2005 draft budget. But what happens? In the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, they managed to reduce the amount by 2 million. kr and at the same time earmark all remaining 5,5 mills. kr. At the same time, the government had already reduced the film budget by 15.6 million. kr, on the grounds of VAT conversion, which should actually be a tax relief. How will the Right defend that the Government still believes that it is betting on film? And how do you defend that Right is a tax-free party when they don't want to pay taxes to the film industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e341	With regard to the regional film funds, there is an innovation in the Norwegian film landscape. It is important to distinguish between these funds and what they represent, and the regional film centres and the way they work. What is clouded by the regional film funds – and they are similar to funds that are found in many European countries – is that they contribute on the investment side, and above all there. It creates special challenges in relation to the obligations we have with regard to ESA and the EU system too. These are not clear areas. It's important that we control this, while we're working on it. The scheme proposed, in item 73, was well, did not meet the needs of this area. Through this agreement, we have been able to find a system where we are going to start both the activities of the funds and the ability to engage in a dialogue that will enable us to put this in place in relation to the EU system. That's a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e348	I was not going to take a line on our budget friends, but the representative provoked me a little. He claimed that the Progress Party, with a cut of 500 million. kr, would frustrate cultural measures. I would like to ask the representative Thommes about where he got it from. What we're saying in our budget is that we have to think about something new. We're actually challenging the whole of Culture Norway to think new and different. Do you think it's okay that you don't think new, that you go in the path you've been in, and your father has gone before you? How free and independent does cultural life become when the state finances most?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e353	Well, we're going to think new, and I'm glad that we're bringing the Progress Party in many ways. But in this context, I think that with a cut in the order of magnitude proposed by the Progress Party, it will not be a question of giving you the opportunity to think again. It will be a matter of simply ending a good deal of businesses and activities. The Progress Party adds is a rather massive change from the way you work today to purely market-based financing, i.e. you have to live on sold tickets and stuff like that. All the experience tells us that the market takes care of the broad segments of cultural life. The main task of the State is not to do what the market itself can do by contributing to greater breadth and quality in those areas where the market is not functioning. That's what I think is nice that the Progress Party does not look and take inwards. The consequence of what the Progress Party will do here is that there would be fewer projects and a number of projects that would impair the quality of cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e360	It is necessary and crucial to strengthen the development of the regional film industry in order to establish film and TV production as a cultural, industrial and economic pathway. The creation of a new entry 73 to support regional film betting in Norway is an important and correct step. However, when a majority of the committee, also composed of the Right, made a settlement on the allocation of these important regional funds, a whole section of the country was translated – completely without a professional justification. I am totally inquiring and am not so little surprised that Film Camp in North Norway has not been allocated funds, which has caused a distortion of competition. I want to ask the following question to the Right: with what reason has a whole part of the country been overlooked? Is it because film development is so well underway in the north, and so you have to put the back in line? Is not this proposal now in existence unfair and distorting competition? Does not the majority believe that this needs to be corrected, so that, in line with other measures in the country, Film Camp is allocated funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e367	As I tried to explain at the outset, it is important to distinguish between the regional film centres – what are sometimes called film commissions – that are about bringing film productions to areas without contributing money, and the film funds, which are thus a compilation of, among other things. county, municipal and private funds from regions working to obtain film production for their regions. The post we're now talking about should primarily be aligned with the last model. There are two environments in Norway that have worked on that particular model for a long time, in contrast to acting as a film centre. We believe that it is important to keep going. In addition, strong signals and municipal contributions have been given — to the best of our knowledge — in the case of the other two, and thus we think they have been clearly pointed out. That doesn't mean we're going to pass North Norway in the time that's coming. It's important film environments to take care of there, too, but they're not within this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e372	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e375	Culture, yes, there is a variety of different measures that flourish all over the country. And I think that, apart from matters of transport, it's the culture that embraces people most – and most people. Then I don't think first of all of the fine culture, but of the broad culture, which engages and activates hundreds of thousands of people around the country. First of all, a little heartache: in the budget procedure this year, lobbying has turned all the records down. So the course for the Workers' Party in lobbying for cultural life has taken a good turn. It clearly shows that there are an incredible number of measures out there. Even we believe that you don't need a lobby course, all the time our door is wide open to anyone who has a message. It's been an incredible pressure on the entire committee, I think. So move on to the contents of the budget. The Progress Party is very pleased that the sailors were taken care of in the 2005 budget. As a result, we could look at other important needs in the cultural sector. For the Advancement Party, it is important that we take care of our art and cultural heritage in a proper way, so that the descendants know their roots. It is therefore important, in the view of the Progress Party, that the museums have predictable frameworks. Now we do not mean by this that the museums should not be creative, run profitable and try to find different alternative sources of income, such as: to rent out some of their collections, but we would have preferred that in the implementation of the compulsory consolidation until 2006 it had also followed some money. It does not do so in the 2005 budget, and therefore the Progress Party considers it very important to come back with a case of VAT compensation for spring. This is going to be a big and important thing, which hopefully also gives the museums an economic boost in the long term. Speaking of lifting, once again, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have highlighted their cultural promise. This time it is clear in the budgetary procedure, the last time it was clear in the discussion of the cultural message. In its rise, SV has more than 400 million. kr extra for the culture, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party have nearly 200 million. kr each. I would like to remind both the parties and the voters out there that it may have consequences both to be engaged and – not least – to be engaged. It is ultimately the taxpayers who have to pay the bill. The Progress Party wants a free and independent cultural life, free from state governance and independent of state economy. Some sectors of cultural life have found that it is possible to cooperate with the private sector, and see that there is money in it. Fortunately, more and more people see this as an opportunity, not a problem. Of course, we have to innovate that we are only 4.5 million people in this country, and that we therefore have limited access to business. Nevertheless, it is good to see that business sees this as an investment, and that cultural life dares to go new ways. Every Norwegian, small and large, in this country, pays $844 for cultural life in Norway this year. And then maybe they should ask to get something back? I had the pleasure of going into the Astrup Fearnley Museum the other day, one of the few museums that do not receive public support. There it cost nothing to get in. Maybe it's that things are going to be free, which you should consider in order to give the taxpayers something back for their money. Maybe we should send a cultural check-up to every citizen of the country, and let them choose what they want to participate in? Then I think the cultural landscape would have looked something different than it does today, but that's one thing we'll get back to. It will not be in the 2005 budget. We are disappointed that Storting's decision on the key is not being followed up in practice. It was a prerequisite for the decision that tipping funds for Freefonds should not lead to a reduction in government budget appropriations. Unfortunately, this has been proposed by the Government three years in a row. We worked hard to reverse the cuts, both in the past and this year. Unfortunately, we did not get through to reverse the Frifond cuts. We think that's a very bad thing. At the same time, we are very happy with what we have achieved through the cultural agreement. We believe that the cultural budget has improved on several important points. I have already mentioned the VAT scheme for the museums. In addition, I would like to draw up the mechanism for allocating funds to local and regional cultural buildings. Here, the Stortinget has given the Government a clear lead, so that all local and regional buildings can apply for funds from the scheme. I've said it in previous debates, and I'm saying it again: everyone who goes out of the Arts and Crafts School cannot be paid by the state or call themselves artists. And not everyone who is happy to sing must on death and life give out a record. In order not to talk about all the politicians who publish books, they must not be included in the purchasing system. Once again I would point out that we are not so many here in the country, and those who succeed should do so despite the state and not because of it. Strong words, perhaps so, but I have noticed that there is still a growing pressure against us big-scale politicians demanding from several groups of government funding. Some have to be tough enough to say stop — especially because, in addition, significant fresh funds have been introduced through the re-allocation of the key. So I'll say a little bit about sports. Unfortunately, for the Progress Party, sport is part of the enlarged concept of culture, a part that we, as big business representatives, do not have much to do with it. I would sincerely wish that we as politicians, when sport has also been given an increase in resources from the key of several hundred million kroner, got a certain understanding of what the money is going to do. I don't know exactly the correct number, but I think it's about 1.2 billion kroner that we big-time politicians don't even have an overview of. When you see how we're tailing and pulling in a few million on a cultural budget of almost $4 billion, it becomes a paradox that we don't really have the insight into what the thousands of millions who go to sports really are going to do. I agree that we should not mess with things we don't have anything on, but at least it could be in their place to get a little idea of what the increase we contributed to by changing the key, led. For the intention of Stortinget it was that much of this new money would go to the grassroots. And if we're going to believe what we're hearing, life in sports Norway hasn't improved much in recent years. This concerns the Progress Party. I hope the Government sees it appropriate to inform the Storting about this in an appropriate way. Finally, I have to be allowed to say that I am happy until 2005. In fact, we have a Council of States that is to be the Minister of Voluntary Affairs. This means, according to what has been said before, that volunteering should be made easier in addressing the public sector, and that in turn means that Freedom Norway can concentrate on doing what they are going to do. There is no doubt that cultural crowns last longer among voluntary teams and organisations. The Progress Party is looking forward to a State Council on Freedom-Norway speaking their case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e418	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the representative Woldseth should make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e421	She will. I would like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e426	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e431	It was not necessary to spend a long time on the alternative budget of the Progress Party. It was just to look at the final figure to find out that the Progress Party will reduce the cultural budget for 2005 by about half. 550 million. kr. We can't call that a bet on culture. But the big thing happens when the Progress Party joins with the government parties in a budgetary settlement. All of a sudden, the Progress Party is in favour of many good proposals that they have voted against in the past. But what does it help when it doesn't come with money, but just words? Isn't that getting engaged? This must be to keep cultural people fooled. And isn't this some kind of double accounting?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e438	I don't think it's double bookkeeping. The representative of the Workers' Party may well point out that we're cutting 500 million. kr – that's right, that's right, and we do. But what the representative in the same breath forgets to say is that it was actually our Document No. 8-proposals that led to the introduction of 400 fresh million into cultural life. kr. If it's calling it double bookkeeping, she can do it, she gets to interpret it as she pleases.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e443	The representative, Mr Woldseth, is concerned on behalf of the taxpayers. She's worried that the so-called cultural comrades will allocate between 200 million. NOK 400 million and SEK 400 million. kr more than the Government and the Advance Party on the budget of the year. Looking at developments in the appropriations made by the Progress Party from 2001 until now, there may be even greater cause for concern for taxpayers. They cut in 2001 43 pst. on the cultural budget, in 2003 cut the 21 pst, and this year they are down to 14.2 pst. With this development, they will be in the framework of two years and two months. And at the end of the next period, those who are so lucky to be elected will see that they are about at SV level when it comes to money for culture. Is there any reason for taxpayers to worry about developments in the cultural policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e448	Now I've heard it too. «If I hammer or hammer, equally so, there will be jams.» I thought that SV would be the ones who might instead of criticising us and worrying about the taxpayers would be overjoyed with what the Progress Party has done so far. We're proud of what we've done. We have a whole big group and a whole party behind us in what we've done, so we can stand with our backs up and wish our cultural life good luck. SV has not actually received so many kroner. However, the Progress Party, together with the government parties, has both put in place concrete measures that will improve the situation in the museum world, and concrete measures that can be read about in the budget. There is more than SV has received.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e455	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e458	I should well end the dispute with the representative Woldseth and say that what she herself highlighted in her main post as the great grip in this period, namely the change of the key, was actually the Progress Party, SV and the Workers' Party that did together, not the Progress Party and the Government. - It's quick to forget. There is currently optimism and expectation in large parts of Norwegian cultural life. «A positive project», says author Roy Jacobsen of the Business of the Day a week ago. The cultural promise is the key to this optimism. In the course of the discussion of the Culture Communication, the three parties, the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, found themselves together in a natural way, and it was so extensive that these parties in cultural policy in retrospect appear more and more as a block. Very well-known is this particularly in Norwegian policy in recent times. It's not the way to understand that these three parties agree with each other. The reader will find some differences in priorities. Also, in terms of the amount of money made available, there are differences. But in common with the parties referred to as the cultural comrades, they want to bet significantly more than today’s government – not to mention the Government’s budget partner of the year. For the coming year, the Workers' Party and the Centre want to use approx. 200 million. kr more than the Government. SV is as usual a smoker on behalf of the culture, and wants to use at the top of 400 million. kr more. Of course, this is not enough for all good purposes that want more activity, but the response of large sections of cultural activists suggests that they appreciate the priorities SV makes. The three parties have followed up their intentions of the Cultural Promise and work on the Communication of Culture and show this by gathering together in a joint note on priorities for the budget of the year. This confirms the willingness of common priorities for collective raising. Again, the response from Norwegian cultural life is warming. When the government parties have to take a firm stand on economic development, the cultural comrades say: Give us a majority for our policy, and we'll fulfill the promise of 1 pst. of the State budget for culture. So we're just talking about more or less money? I don't mean it. I have previously, in several contexts, referred to developments in Denmark, where one more and more sees the consequences of a neoliberalist policy on cultural life: stagnation and the reduction of public funds, and more and more left to the market. What remains is what is most profitable and most commercially organized, not surprising at the expense of diversity and what is in some context referred to as strange or narrow expressions. And I agree with Thommes' representative that there are not only degree differences, there are differences between the Right and the Advance Party. Then we have to hope that value conservatism still lives so well that the Right, if, after the next election, we would get a new government where the Right becomes even more dependent on the Advance Party, will not be lured any longer. In Norway, it is mainly within the media field that we experience such a development. Fortunately, in this period, despite a right-wing government, we have a culture minister who wants diversity and who has realized that the market alone is unable to care for such considerations. The Council of State's defence for press support deserves commendation and respect, even though in the draft budget of the year it looked as if she had slept an hour. Fortunately, however, she woke up in time and made sure that newspapers with content that is not necessarily close to her or that cannot survive without support — for example. The morning paper and New Time – continue to enrich not least the cultural debate of the coming year. If we see in the program of partner Right, it becomes clear that they want the press support removed. What the Progress Party wants to do with the press support in the long term is probably not suitable to be said loudly from this pulpit. Not least in this field, it is easy to understand that Culture-Norway wants an alternative where one says that, unlike an alternative with a likely weakened Christian People's Party and an even stronger Progress Party. The cultural policy consequences of a scrapping of press support are quite clear to most people who follow closely. The fact that some parties welcome such a development probably makes it easier for many to choose a political side in the next elections. If a person spends all the money on poultry, and nothing on fairy, there will be little milk. This description used a representative of the district operation during the consultation process in the context of the budget. It's a very striking description – in my view – because it's not like the government sucks bad in this year's budget. They even say they have a growth of 7-9 pst. In fact, they have crushed some piggybacks – as Giske says. Then they continue their journeys, still against the will of the Storting, and use funds from the so-called tipper conciliation for ever new purposes – at their discretion – that were previously in the ordinary budget. In this way they balance their own budgets with toys. They also undermine the will of the Storting when they reduce or nullify items such as Freefonds, the cultural school bag and funds for local and regional cultural houses. Budgeting is a way to housekeepers. It must be possible to ask questions by the way the Government has done this — even this time. Both we in SV and large parts of Kultur-Norway had some positive expectations for the first budget after the cultural announcement – which was to launch the course for the next ten years – had been presented. What we see is the consequences of the Council of State's "attire": some money for glass and concrete, but disappearing little to activity and innovation. It's like inviting you to a dedication party and serving heated weeds and Christmas cakes from last Christmas. It must be bad to spend as much money as the government does, and get so little positive response back. Could it have anything to do with the housekeeper? Crying, the Council of State's honest comment on the budget was – nor was it a bad description. The comments of the Council of State are also very appropriate to the response that the budget has received from Culture-Norway. This year, SV proposes to prioritize the cultural budget in order to increase it by 431.5 million. kr. It is impossible in one post to comment on all the entries and actions, but whoever takes the time to read our priorities will see that most of the money does not go to populist Christmas cards. Of course, we have ours, but I think we are slightly tempted to use such money, in the light of what we have in the budget. But it is worth noting that we take responsibility, that it is ‘the fixed posts’, as it was called in the NRC in the old days, which is strengthened – the large funds, the purchasing arrangements, the voluntary nature of the free-fund scheme, the cultural school bag, etc. What we're doing is raising culture up as a committed and comprehensive field of action in the SV's policy over the coming years. Sharing these ambitions with the Workers' Party and the Center Party is one of the things that will make the autumn election campaign and the autumn's choices especially exciting for those who want a real commitment to art and culture in future Norway. The cultural school bag is probably the most visible and joyous thing that has happened in Norwegian cultural life during this metropolitan period — correctly as a result of the opposition’s change of key. But also the government parties are obviously satisfied with the result. In this area, the Government has managed money and ideas in a way that is not as far away as our intentions were at the time. In recent days, we have received some alarming reports of skills in schools in Norway. Does this have anything to do with us? Yes, we have a great responsibility – as I see it – primarily to help create creative and curious young people who thrive and who have good opportunities to develop many aspects of themselves. I mentioned the cultural school bag. Bring the Culture of Youth, and don't forget the libraries! Public libraries are the responsibility of municipalities. Had it not been for this to be required by law, I am afraid we had not yet had so many left. Improved local economy, which also allows priority to be given to the field of culture, is the key. That key I think today's government has messed up – and has trouble finding again. People's libraries are our most important non-commercial meeting place locally, without a purchase mandate, and should be strengthened and built up, not – which unfortunately we look around – be laid down. This is not because of poor visits – on the contrary – but because of the shaky economy, little money for books, records, films, etc. SV proposes to strengthen this extra in the budget that comes, by 10 million. kr. In addition, we propose power ceilings for the prison libraries, the multilingual library and the mailboxes. We must not forget the music. At home in the attic it hangs a uniform from Gol boy music. It hangs there because the corps saw it as unlikely that someone would ever use a uniform of size 6 years. It was boys' music, but there weren't many protests from us guys when it became school music and it sucked in girls. When I mention this, it's because the so-called cultural comrades have spent 10 million dollars. kr to a fund for the purchase of instruments for corps – not enough, but a good start. My wish is that these funds are quickly put in place and increased rapidly, so that parents' spirit of virtue can be directed more towards corps activity and less towards obtaining money for instruments. Finally, NRK: In summary, a person might well carefully say, "Congratulations!" It must be possible to show respect for what the NRC – with Bernander at its head – has done in recent years: order of the economy and a strengthened and increasing market position. The plans are ready for the bet on Barne-TV. Come on - it's not supposed to be on SV! What about SV's usually critical voice against commercialisation and our disagreement with the development of district offices, etc. In the NRK? Yes, this is at work, but today I just want to say, Heia NRK! I'll give praise to the boss and all the employees for what they get. I am promoting the suggestions SV has in the setting – alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e513	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e519	We have now heard that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have a common cultural policy. But we've also heard that they have a bigger project going on. They want to form the government together after the election. They refer to the cultural promise, which is a committed and comprehensive commitment to art and culture over the next ten years, and which is followed up in the alternative budget of the respective parties. What separates the government parties and the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party in cultural policy, is the use of money, as Thommmes was involved. I guess SV has 430 million. kr more in their alternative budget, and they will spend even more. The working party has a minimum of 200 million. kr more. So they're left with 230 million. kr to meet the Swedish cultural policy. And so they're going to make a budget together for the harvest! It might have been interesting to hear where SV is going to cut its cultural budget to meet the other parties. They're not known for the art of prioritizing. But it could be interesting to hear what they're going to do when they get into the real world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e530	The art of prioritizing is also one of our disciplines. I believe that if representatives Sjøli and Thommessen from the Right had been given the funds that we have on this year's cultural budget, it is not certain that they would have disposed of them so much differently. I'm not going to start budget negotiations with Sjøli on behalf of the cultural comrades. That's what we're going to do in the autumn. I'm not afraid of that round. We've worked very well together. We know which way to point the arrow. We're going to go it together, and we're going to go faster than today's government. That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e537	I didn't think SV was rude, that they didn't dare say any words from the pulpit. I'm going to tell Lund Bergo which word maybe – or certainly – is very difficult for SV to say from this pulpit, and that's ‘cut’. But that might not know SV completely what it is. I can also tell SV, since Lund Bergo in his main post asked what we were going to do with the press support, that in the long run – and that is certainly the representative from SV aware of – we will make sure that nationwide, meaningful newspapers, such as the Class struggle and the Newspaper, get by themselves. As I said, this about cutting might not know what is, because they have taxpayers to take away. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e546	When we sit and manage money on Stortinget, it's a lot of tax money. I'm assuming that's the same money the Advance Party uses. I showed in a reply to the Progress Party earlier today how they have reduced their cut in the cultural budget from over 40 p.m. to 14 pst. in the course of five years. If that curve continues, they're going to owe money soon. Then they have to get money from the taxpayers, so do they. So it's gonna be okay. What is worrying is that the representative, Mr Woldseth, of the Progress Party, does not see the consequence of cutting off the press support precisely to the relevant newspapers. So it has to be that the meanings that pay off are those that live in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e555	It has always been SV's strategy to solve everything with government money. One would think that it was also interesting for a party like SV to be able to spend money given by private people, given by individuals around this country. The figures we have from the Ministry of Finance show that in 2003 there was a grant exemption for 677 million. kr. This is money that goes right into the cultural work of non-governmental organisations. In the opinion of the Socialist Left, this does not seem to be very important, because they have opposed this system. Then there's a couple more things that I also want to record. By means of the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, we have proposed and managed to bring two choirs into the state budget, namely the Guttekor of Nidarosdomen and Oslo Domkor. We want to strengthen the crossroads. We also want to have a support scheme, as the Culture Communication provided on the crossroads. Here, the Socialist Left Party shines with its absence, which the budgetary comrades and the Workers' Party do not. What makes SV stay out of these appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e562	Perhaps the reason why we are not involved in the allocation of these two choirs is precisely what Woldseth was missing, namely priorities in the budget. It's known that we have a lot of money, but we do a lot of heavy priorities anyway. We don't do things like Loan and his party traps, which suck in, for example. The cultural fund and spend money on Christmas cards at home for its own choirs. We don't need to be involved in that. In the case of tax exemptions for gifts to organisations, it is a principle we disagree with. But it shows that the tax will is there, that the money is there. I believe it is important that the community should collect taxes and allocate the money according to a political priority and not according to the personal satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e569	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e572	In the time around the millennial turn, many of us have called for a boost in cultural appropriations. The last performance, also called the Cultural Promise – with a large K – was launched in connection with the Culture Communication in spring. According to a printed paper file from the three parties behind it, the aim is to raise the cultural budget by approx. DKK 1.3 billion over a ten-year period. On this basis, it is with great satisfaction that I note that the cultural budget for the Cooperation Government in the autumn has the highest percentage increase that the cultural budget has had in very many years. For the programme category Cultural objectives, the increase of a total of 9 pst., which is higher than any cultural budget in this century. For cultural and media purposes as a whole, the increase is probably 340 million. kr for next year. It must be said to be a useful escalation if the target is to be set at NOK 1.3 billion within 10 years. Let's get two or three more of these budgets, and we'll be there soon! We agree that Norwegian cultural life needs a real boost. Yet: Despite the fact that the Minister of Culture can decorate himself with the best budget in never for so long, this fall too we have heard some vents discontent with the budget. The Committee's hearings were partly influenced by this. Yes, even from some of those who got an increase in the last minute in the budget agreement in the committee, we heard: yes, we thank you for what we got, but we expected more. The simple explanation of many disappointments is that this time a significant part of the budget increase had to go ahead with a few major construction projects that the Stortinget has decided to launch. Thus, there was no room for fulfilling so many of the promises made in the Culture Communication. Perhaps it would be a wise strategy in view of later budgets to seek a balance between what should go into infrastructure development and what should go into increasing activity. But here's not the whole explanation of the dissatisfaction. There's also something wrong with the expectations. Some have obviously exaggerated, yes unrealistic expectations of what would be granted. Even though we don't have to spend time looking for scapegoats, maybe someone should each take a little bit of a walk in themselves at this point. Cultural policy, too, is the basis for a variety of populism. Rather than throwing blues in the eyes of the people of culture, we should be more concerned with the negligentness of dealing with the political promises, even though it is approaching elections. Too many proposals are launched to which money is never granted. Another unfortunate feature of the cultural debate is that they so unilaterally focus on increased appropriations, on more money. It is true that a lot of culture can be created with small resources, so investment in culture is a good investment. But it is also true that in many cases it is possible to get more out of the money you have, using it in a different way. Therefore, it should also be a continuous cultural policy challenge to focus attention on organisation, management and management, on actions that could lead to better resource use. The most important cultural policy reform in this decade is the ABM reform. It has just had this in mind: improving the use of resources both in order to solve more tasks in archives, libraries and museums, and above all in increasing the quality of services and the provision of services to the public. The ABM reform has already come a long way in this direction. Nevertheless, much remains. Here it has been necessary both to create more rational operations and to provide more resources. Unfortunately, we did not quite manage to keep pace with the appropriations, as the Storting assumed. It is crucial in time for these funds to be allocated, so that the reform does not stop. This relates to funds for further upgrading in the individual subsectors, and not least to funds for development projects throughout the ABM field. Some challenges point out in particular. The consolidation of the museum field can quickly get out of the good track it has entered, if resources are not available. In the archive field, there is a great deal of lag, not least in relation to the transition to electronic archiving, but also to the need to preserve the large amount of private archive material that has been sacrificed to a lesser extent to date. The library field is largely a municipal responsibility. But here too there are several important challenges under state authority and responsibility, and I would like to point out two: it concerns the prison libraries and the multilingual library. Both of these categories are perceived in many ways as the standing children of the library field whose importance to their users has been greatly underestimated for too long. Both areas need to be integrated into our priorities in the future. The cultural field has many budget chapters and items. As rapporteur for the issues here in Stortinget relating to the construction of a new opera house, I would like to express my satisfaction that the construction project is on track. It's the biggest single vow in the field of culture measured in money in this decade. At the same time as the construction of a new opera house, it has been essential to solve two other parallel tasks. One concerns the organisational upgrade of the Norwegian Opera, with a view to meeting the increased challenges of a new opera house. The second concerns the development of opera and ballet production and dissemination in other parts of the country. There has been a clear premise of the Biggest that one should be done and the other not to be undone. This assumption has to be attached. Let me also add that it was with great satisfaction that we received the message that Statsbygg has now succeeded in getting an order to deliver Norwegian stone to parts of the façade at the opera house in Bjørvika. New from the next year is that the Ministry of Culture and the Church will be given overall responsibility for voluntary policy, as a follow-up to work on the so-called voluntary notification. For a long time, there has been a need for better coordination and a more comprehensive policy in this field. With the enormous effort made by a large number of volunteers through efforts in a diverse cultural life, this department is a natural choice. The Ministry is also responsible for the important work carried out by the Centres for Volunteering, a work that still needs strengthening, including: through the establishment of several centres. One of the challenges for the Ministry will also be to ensure the proper functioning of the VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations. This has caused some concern in organisations, and it is important to find a more accurate system without creating a comprehensive bureaucracy. There are several challenges in the media field. One of them is linked to an increasing interest in creating and producing films around the country. Several new film environments are established in different regions. The Norwegian film policy has, as you know, been in the cast for a long time. The conversion of the film policy that has been implemented in recent years has undoubtedly contributed to the vitalisation of the film industry, which has once again brought about better Norwegian films, increased public awareness and increased self-financing. But on one important point, evolution has not been equally promising. This applies above all to the geographical distribution of film production. A look at the overview of the films supported in recent years shows that over 90 pst. the money has gone to cinematographic producers with addresses in Oslo, Bærum or the Central East region. Button 10 pst. have been allocated to producers outside the Eastern region, in particular to operators belonging to the Bergen region. The uneven distribution may be due to a lack of skilled producers elsewhere in the country. But this is a political task to do something about. There is no doubt that this bias is an important element that should be given attention during the forthcoming evaluation of film support. If we are to succeed in triggering creative forces and financial resources in other parts of the country, we also need robust regional environments that can contribute to it. We can show examples of what is being done in other areas of economic development. The relocation of State supervision is such an example. The government wanted to make better use of its expertise in this field. Furthermore, how could one expect to improve access to capital in business without the creation of regional capital bases? The same should also be true in the field of film. Finally, this year the government parties were given a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. We would like to pay tribute to the Party of Advancement for tidy conduct, which led us to reach agreement. As part of the agreement it was redistributed approx. Ten million. For some good purposes, and we have a number of majority comments that can be of great importance in important areas. From my point of view, as I have already mentioned, I would also like to stress that I am pleased with the support of Nidarosdomen's boys' choir and Oslo Cathedral, which, although not large in crowns and ears, can nevertheless announce an inaugural escalation of as well the support for the choir as a separate support scheme for church musical activities, as announced by the Government in the Culture Communication. The latter is also underlined by the award to the regional church music centre at Bodø Cathedral. Last but not least, we have just experienced a new distribution of the Nobel Peace Prize. This is an important annual event, which can mean more for a peaceful development in the world than we might know. In this context, it is very positive that the Government has contributed both to the establishment and operation of the Nobel Peace Centre on the West Railway. The centre shall be opened in connection with the marking of Norway’s independence on 7 June. Both the centenary marking and the opening of the peace centre are important national cultural events that we believe can bring significant ring-fences and attract great attention in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e627	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e630	I almost feel sorry for the representative Ola T. Borrow now, for he's really genuine about culture. He talks hot and likes to talk about non-governmental organisations for a long time. But from the environment known to the representative Lånker, the representative is well aware that even non-governmental organisations need help. Basars may be rather what the representative knows, but we are talking here in the Stortinget about Frifonds, for example. It turns out that this scheme, where funds are to go to non-governmental organisations, which can actually spread a lot of joy and activity, not least on the local level, has lost 17 million. kr in the budget. How will the representative Ola T. Lånk explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e639	I must say to the representative of the Fall's concern and understanding of the signed almost limits to the touching. When it comes to the view of non-governmental organizations, it is absolutely right that they have been a heartchild of the Christian People's Party. We note that voluntary organisations have better framework conditions in Norway than they have ever had, thanks to different schemes. Tax exemptions on gifts are one of those that we're really happy that we've got, and that means an infinite amount to very many non-profit organizations. In the case of Freefonds, they have lost, as the representative has said, something about the government budget’s appropriations, but in 2005 they will receive 135 million. kr instead. If we look at the relationship between the two numbers, we see that this is a formidable increase in the allocation to non-governmental organisations, which benefit children and young people and adults throughout the country. This really can't be said to be anything cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e649	Is there anything wrong with the expectations, says Lånke in his main post. Is it so wrong that there are some expectations in Culture-Norway about following up the cultural message? Is it so wrong for Kultur-Norge to expect the ABM message to be followed up? Turning open doors, Ola T. Lånke said, one of the government's spokesmen, when we came with the cultural promise. One can ask Ola T. Lånke if the ABM door has now gone into a looplock. We are not the ones who have locked it. So the representative Lånker says that despite the large percentage increase, there is still no room for his own heartchild, namely ABM. Does the representative Lånke think that the response of the museums to this year's budget is unreasonable sewing, or does it have its cause in real terms? Or is there something wrong with the expectations in Museums-Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e658	Is there anything wrong with the expectations, ask the representative Lund Bergo. If he had heard well after what I said in my post, I said first of all that despite too much increase in the budget, the largest in many years, there is discontent and expectation that there will be more. I have such an understanding of that, but at the same time I also say that expectations are too great. Not least the Socialist Left Party and the representative Lund Bergo have contributed for years to throwing blues in the eyes of people with proposals that have never been made. Throughout all the years I've been on the Culture Committee, and it starts gradually to be eight years, this has been history, repeatedly, 300 million. kr more to culture strained beyond the country. No one has seen anything about that money. It helps to turn up expectations. Obviously, here we all have something on our conscience. And I'm going to admit, everyone has an easy time doing that. I think I actually said that in my post, so I think we should go in ourselves. It's too high expectations, but it's clear that the ABM field, which is one of them, needs more money. In my post, I think I explained the reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e667	In connection with the Culture Communication, the Government received support from the Storting to extend the purchasing system to the case law. We have had a debate earlier today in Odelstinget, where the Minister for Children's Affairs and Family Affairs referred to the family communication and three measures, and that this had to be a priority, which we all understand. The Christian People's Party paid very much attention to the fact that Nidarosdomen guys and Oslo Domkor had now entered the budget. My question to the representative Lånke is: can the Christian People's Party do well for how they view the priorities further? Is it the extension of the purchasing system to the case procedure that should be at the top, is it ABM, or is it where?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e674	In the line from Sollied Upperaas there were three things that were mentioned. That's where, it was the purchase system for the case trial, and it was ABM. As far as I remember, there was a broad majority in the Committee on Culture in favour of more resources being allocated to all these fields, but not to be noticed in the first year of the budget. That message, I think, must remind us of the fact that we have a 10-year perspective. If the representative asks whether it is the procurement procedure for the case procedure that will come first, and the second one behind it, I think we will be discussing it in the future if we have to give priority. I hope that in the years to come, there will be a strengthening of all these items above the budget. I'm basically optimistic about that. I have great faith that it is also in line with the wishes of the Council of State and the desire of the parties behind the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e681	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e684	The centre party wants culture to be more than find words in party speeches and cake sticks on the game program. Cultural policy shall be ambitious and binding and have views that go beyond the annual government budgets. ‘Let the thousand flowers bloom’ is an expression that is left in cultural policy posts. But nothing grows without fertilization, and the same can well say about culture. Without stimulation and organization, we will not have any cultural blossoms in our country. The centre party was united with the Workers' Party and SV in much of the cultural message setting. Through the treatment of this year's cultural budget, we have shown that there is a willingness to fulfill what we promised in that setting. We stated that we would support during the Norwegian film success. We promise to increase the bet on volunteering. From the government, it was said, as has been pointed out from this pulpit several times, that it was opening doors, and that there was a minimal difference between the government party and the so-called cultural comrades. What, then, is happening in these two areas mentioned in the 2005 budget proposal, the first budget after the Culture Communication has been discussed? Yeah, the government cuts production support for films worth over 15 million. kr and accept an additional reduction after the agreement with the Progress Party. What about volunteering? Well, the government's proposal is a 17 million-dollar reduction. kr. The progress party provides its support in the agreement. When the Storting changed the key for the tipper, it was a clear commitment – and I would like to underline it – that the ordinary permissions on the state budget should not be reduced. The center part wants a strong escalation of the permissions for voluntary work and has a total of 42 million. kr extra on Cape. 315 Voluntary purposes. The proposal that we have with the Workers' Party and SV to set up an instrument fund of 10 million. kr, is also an important contribution to voluntary work. The purchasing arrangements for Norwegian literature have been important not least for libraries. For a long time, there has been a strong desire from many companies to extend the purchasing system to Norwegian case law. The English language is becoming more and more involved in the Norwegian language, and the language areas that should, of course, be Norwegian are in the process of being taken over by the English language. Extending the purchasing system to a case-by-case approach is an action for a more offensive language policy that will strengthen Norwegian language. I just have to admit that I was disappointed, because I had hoped the government would come with this in this year's budget proposal. And then this time from this pulpit, I'm going to give praise to the Council of State when it's about the new one. In our budget, we have a range of measures to strengthen this area. We follow up the cultural message by focusing on several actions within Norwegian music, increasing the festival support, proposing the creation of a dedicated support scheme for dance and increasing the opportunities for free stage art. The scheme of decorating public spaces is important. It's a good tool to ensure access to art in public space. It is particularly important to stress that the scheme must apply to all public establishment, regardless of whether the building is eighted or rented by the public. In many budget management, we have been together with the Christian People's Party to keep track of the production support of the newspapers. My impression has been that we agree that a rich newspaper flora is important. The post office's briefcase has made the situation difficult for many newspapers. The Minister for Culture has acknowledged on several occasions that this is a cultural policy issue. I therefore expected that the Government had at least proposed to adjust the production premium. Without them, about 5.4 million. In 2005, kr will be a difficult year, not least for local viewers. I am pleased that a joint committee is behind the proposal that the government has a special responsibility in relation to subtitling direct television programmes. This is still at the experimental stage, and there are hundreds of thousands of hearing impaired people who are looking for technology to lead us from the experimental stage to providing a permanent supply. So I'll take up the proposal from the Center Party. I would also like to ask that during the voting we have the right to vote for VII-XI.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e712	The representative Eli Sollied Upperaas has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e717	First, I have to go back to a line to the representative Giske earlier today, where I probably took it a little too far that there was going to be a government change for the autumn. But if it becomes – for or against assumption, to say it like that – then the Center Party will be part of such a government option and form a government. I am very pleased with the concern of the representative Sollied Överaas, among others. strengthening purchasing systems. A field that is related to it is the library field, which is again part of the ABM field, archives, libraries and museum. It was the Central Party Council of State, Åslaug Marie Haga, who in its time submitted the ABM message, so I have to ask: how does the representative of the Centre see the possibility of continuing the important ABM reform in a government cooperation with the other two parties, taking into account that ABM has not been placed on the important priority list represented by the Cultural Promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e724	First, I want to tell the representative Lånke that I believe we all in this room must acknowledge that when it concerns ABM development, the job is not done. I think all the parties should take responsibility for that. Then I can calm the representative to say that if he reads the comments from the Central Party, SV and the Labour Party, he will see that we agree to refer to a promise of 40 million. kr for five years that would go to ABM development. Then I like the representative, Lånke, who is involved in eight cultural budgets. I have at least experienced four of the budgets to cooperate closely with the Christian People's Party, and I have seen how far the Christian People's Party and the Right have stood apart from each other in many budgetary processes. Yet sit them today in the same government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e731	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e734	Bertolt Brecht said: “Art is a luxury that humans need.” Art is culture, and so we all need culture. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party merged and developed a historical cultural promise that was presented in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 48 for 2002-2003, Culture policy towards 2014. Among other things, these parties wanted to increase the cultural budget by 1 pst. by the State budget. The working party will follow up on this. When the Government provided the budget for 2005, it did not contain a promise for Culture Norway. Most of the additions from the Government were to large buildings. It is well and good to bet on barley, but it is equally important, if not even more important, to keep up the activity, so that Norway can flag off being a diverse cultural nation. Another part of the increase was the transfer of money, among others. from tipping agents. The working party then found it absolutely necessary to strengthen the submitted budget by about 200 million. kr. The decision to change the key is linked to the high expectations of many teams in society. Now there was going to be more money for culture, as the tippers were going to come to the top of the ordinary budget. Note that, Progress Party. What we are now experiencing is that the ordinary budgetary resources are being withdrawn, and that the funds are being used for many more tasks than the majority thought. An example of this is the funds for local and regional cultural houses. Here the Government proposes that these funds should also be used for libraries, churches, mailboxes, thousands of years, etc., as well as that most of these funds currently go to national buildings. I expect the government itself to realize that the funds are now being used incorrectly in relation to decisions on the use of tipping agents, and that it is very unfair for large parts of the country. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party ask the Government to draw up guidelines consistent with previous decisions. Norwegian film has achieved good results in recent years, and we know that it needs public funding. The working party will strengthen the film chapter by 35 million. kr. The government itself has said in the Culture Communication: ‘It is a public task to ensure that in a small country such as Norway, there is a supply of films and other audiovisual productions reflecting our history, our culture and our language.’ We all agree on this. It should be believed that this was true of the whole country, including North Norway, where there are several special cultures. This part of the country had high hopes for the regional film fund, which was set up with 7.5 million. kr. But first of all, this entry was reduced by 2 million. kr through the agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, and secondly the remaining funds were distributed from the Tree Layer and the South. In addition, in its 2005 State Budget proposal, the Government had reduced the funds to the Nordic Film Centre by 0.5 million. kr, which will make it difficult to carry out the assigned tasks of producing a Sami film per year. years. With this budget, North Norway has reduced the funding for film development. Is this to ‘secure’ the whole country? Both the government parties and the Advance Party will now be investing in a regional church musical centre in Bodø, which they were not half a year ago when the Workers' Party promoted the proposal. The bet is good, but when the settlements take 10 million. kr from good intentions, including: from the press and the Cultural Fund, this is affecting the whole country. When only NOK 250,000 goes back to the northern part of the country through the Church Music Center, I can understand people in the north who say, "Now it's just before we give up, this is the next autumn." They will also remember the Advance Party and all the fine words, but no money. It's not enough to run Culture Norway with beautiful words every four election years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e765	I must first be allowed to correct the representative of Bergo when he claims that I said it was a gray budget. I said that there was a solid budget, and that is what I stand by today. It's a solid budget we're currently running. The 2005 cultural budget sees good growth both in nominal and real terms, but it is equally fully capable of establishing a long list of important non-proprietary needs within the cultural area. I must honestly admit that I smiled a little for myself as I listened to the representative Giske's flourishing mention of Ellen Horn's last budget. There was an increase of 206 million. NOK 6,8 p.m., while the budget we're handling today, which is being slaughtered by the same Gisk, has an increase of 318,9 million. kr, approx. 9 pst. Then we realize that there is a difference between being in position and being in opposition. One main reason why it has been unwise to meet many expectations for the 2005 budget is that it has been absolutely necessary to give priority to heavy projects that we have been working on for many years. In concrete terms, it is natural to draw up the National Library, which receives an unusually large increase in the licenses in 2005. When the rehabilitated building in Solli Square is opened to the public in August next year, the goal has been achieved for a project that has been developed step by step over the last 15 years. For the first time, Norway will thus have a complete, modern and technologically updated national library with public facilities in Oslo and with important registration, database and conservation functions in Rana. Otherwise, the new construction of the Hålogaland Theatre will become operational in 2005, and the stage art will thus have completely different framework conditions in the northernmost part of our country. We're going to remind people from North Norway of that even to the next fall. I want to underline here, when it was said by the representative Giske that we were forced to put forward proposals on the Hålogaland theater, and ask: why didn't Ellen Horn prioritise it in his last budget that was so very good? Then there was actually no room for it, even the plans were ready. Measures of this species, where implementation extends for many years, are common in the field of culture. The construction of a new opera in Bjørvika is in this way undoubtedly the most mentioned, and there will be, as you know, an intense period of construction next year. In parallel with the progress made in construction, the Norwegian Opera Institute must develop both artistic and technical in order to be able to invite the audience to the new locals in 2008. Another major and long-term project is the development of our new National Museum of Art, where the coming year will be characterized by the two main tasks that the Ministry has done in a dedicated addition to the budget proposition, the integration of the Riksutfällung and the further development of a collection and co-ordination of the visual art expression arena in the Tullinløkka area. It's very gratifying that a group committee has joined this. The Committee is also very positive about the plans for a combined theatre and concert hall in Kristiansand, and a broad majority in the Committee are also positive about the plans for a new concert hall in Stavanger. I assume that in addition to the new opera, there are these three construction projects that will be the major investment measures in the cultural field in the decade ahead: the National Museum of Art in Oslo, the theatre and concert hall in Kristiansand and the concert hall in Stavanger. But in addition, there are many other investment needs within almost all parts of the cultural field. I see that the Committee is not satisfied that the Government has proposed to neutralise the introduction of the film and cinema in the added-value system. I would like to remind you of the following from the setting of the movie message that Size handles earlier in this year, where it says: ‘The majority note that the industry believes that the most important step the Stortinget can take for Norwegian film production is to integrate the industry into the VAT system at a low rate. The majority assume that a rate of additional subsidies is not to be added, but a rate that has a neutral or minimal proceeds effect on the State budget. The reason why such a rate would nevertheless be positive for the industry is that accounting conditions become much simpler and more predictable.» I think that in the 2005 budget we have followed up the majority. I am pleased that the Committee is satisfied with proposals to focus on regional film actions, even though a solution different from what I presented has now been proposed. We are dealing with sports policy today as well. The overarching goal of sport policy is sport and physical activity for all. This means that as many as possible should be able to engage in sports and physical activity. Children and young people are the main target groups. Sports facilities are an important factor in achieving the objective of State sports policy. The Ministry therefore prioritises additions to sports facilities in the municipalities. Among other things, we have increased the additional rates of plant types with high user potential and plant types that can be used for self-organised activity. There's a lot more things I could bring up here. In conclusion, I would like to say that, following the Committee's management of the budget and the communication on culture, I note that there is still a broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e796	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e799	It's quite interesting to hear that the Council of State refers to the majority of the size of the film cut. We said we wanted an approximate proceeds-neutral tax conversion, we said nothing about wanting a cut in the production grant at the same time as the conversion. And it has to feel especially for a government that has an ambition of $31 billion in tax bills, that when you give $15 million. kr to Filmfondet, you have to pay for the crown from the cultural budget. It must feel very, very special. In the debate on the cultural message in ours we were told that they had the same ambitions, it was just to open the doors when we wanted to have cultural schools for everyone, to bet on movies, to strengthen the purchasing arrangements, etc. Now that we see the cultural budget for 2005, there are no open doors, there are hardly any hatches, and they're all closed. My question to the Council of State is: If she disregards the efforts already made by the Stortinget, in the development of ABM, the National Library and the Hålogaland Theatre, what is left in the 2005 state budget as an active follow-up to the Culture Communication of ours?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e808	The representative Geske mentions the spheres of culture. I sat here yesterday and listened to most of the educational debate. Then there were no representatives from the Workers' Party, as far as I got with me at least, who were busy with the cultural spheres at all. And it is in connection with that budget that one should possibly discuss that part, not here today. In yesterday's debate, it was not very important for the representative Giske's party traps – as far as I got with me. I didn't sit there all the time, but at least it wasn't a big theme. When it applies to the current year's budget, I would like to remind you that we allow almost 320 million. Extra kr, so it's over 100 million. kr more than in the brilliant budget that Ellen Horn presented in the last year she was Minister of Culture. We're betting, but we're forced to also take on the seriousness of all the projects that have already been started. I could have forests on some of these projects to be around me with a lot of good and positive actions, but then we had trouble following up to the Hålogaland Theatre and the National Library, and we had trouble finishing the Opera. It's irresponsible. The bet is great, but it was quite certain what we were forced to use it for this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e824	In 2006 we show that it's been 100 years since Henrik Ibsen's death. Henrik Ibsen is a very central artist, a very central Northman, in the world. He is the one Norway connects with in large parts of the world, and we have a great responsibility in managing his authorship, both to the Norwegian audience and to international research environments and to the international audience. Large investments are made both in the university's scientific work with the Ibsen collection and in the Ibsen year's marking. I think it must be of great importance to use this in the future, not just let it all end in 2006. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she intends to bring this into further strategic work, which will enable us to use the investments in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e835	I agree entirely with the comment made by the Committee when it comes to Ibsen's bet. It's due in 2006, but it's important that what we do when we add resources to that celebration gets effects that we want to enjoy for many, many years, for generations to come. The Ibsen bet shall lead to a lasting lift for the management of the inheritance after Ibsen and to lasting institutional results. In the distribution of gambling funds for cultural construction, we have awarded grants in the department in 2004 to upgrade the Henrik Ibsen Museum, Venstøp, which is part of the Telemark Museum. The draft budget for 2005 also included an increase in the operating grant to the Telemark Museum, in order to strengthen the Ibsen effort in the museum. These are long-term investments. We have also given a positive signal of support from 2007 for a project at the University of Oslo for the publication of a historical, critical version of Henrik Ibsen's writings. The intention is to support this, and it's about 2007 and beyond.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e846	I have a question for the Council of State on the basis of a postponement decision in connection with the introduction of automatic monopoly. The State budget says that the Lottery Authority has had a real reduction of 10 million. kr for 2005, exactly with the background of the automatic monopoly. But now the Council of State has suspended this decision for six months. My question is: will the Council of State do something to ensure that the Lottery Authority can also do its job in 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e855	First I have to say that I am very sorry that we have been forced to postpone the monopoly reform, to which a large majority in the Stortinget have joined. In the case of the Lottery Authority’s tasks, it is obvious that the supervision should continue to do what they have been instructed to do. Then we'll have a discussion with them when we see how things are going, about what might be required of the promises in the revised national budget. We don't know yet. But there's no way in the cards that they're going to slow down the stakes on their main tasks. We're in a dialogue with them, and we still have to be. As the representative said, it's just made public that we had to postpone this reform. If necessary, we may take that into account in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e864	I want to start by giving praise to the government council for dealing with the issue of earnings on slot machines and the problems of gambling addiction. I'm not quite so impressed with online gambling, and other problems that go off. SV has previously made proposals in the Storting to explore the possibility of banning online gambling, a type of game that in international research circles is considered as as addictive and as scary as the machines. It has been said in the past that it is impossible, that it is not possible to ban games online. But we know that there is a reality in Australia, and that there are also such kinds of bans in large parts of the United States. Of course it doesn't work 100 pst. Nor do the speed limits in Norway work 100 pst, but we do not consider removing the speed limits even if they do not work 100 pst. Will the State Council remove the test concessions that are currently being managed by Red Cross and Norwegian Typing and take the initiative to stop gambling online?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e873	We have recently received a report that is dependent on online gambling. This report is to be sent out on a ring, and we want to take that round before we decide what to do with these concessions. When we take our position on whether they should be passed on, or whether they should be concluded, it is important that we have the best possible basis before we draw a conclusion. So in the short term, we're going to talk about passing it on -- we're going to let it become a test concession and not a fixed concession -- and then we're going to evaluate the results that we find in the report, what we have to do for the future. But we haven't drawn that conclusion yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e881	During the processing of the cultural message, a number of them asked for an outsourcing for the construction and operation of a national cultural boat. I am aware that the project group has completed its work, and my question is, How does the Council of State intend to follow this up? Then it's a fact that the promises to Freefonds over the state budget are reduced. My second question is, is it the Council of State's intention to remove this whole item from the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e890	We have not yet completed the report that has been delivered in the case of a national cultural boat. When I sit and listen to this debate, there's not really a call about more construction I hear. Representatives are calling for more means of culture and not for more resources in the construction industry. At least it's my clear impression after all the posts that have been here today. This will cost a lot. Now I don't think – I don't have the sum in my head – how much such a boat will cost, but there's no small money here. At least we have to include that in the further assessment of whether that is what we're going to bet on. We have not reached a conclusion, but we have received the report. I haven't worked with him enough yet, so we haven't drawn any conclusions. When it applies to Freefonds, I'm honest to say that one of the reasons we've cut is that we've wanted more for other parts of culture. However, Frifonds has received an increase since 2002, from approx. 70 million. NOK – if I do not think completely wrong – to SEK 135 million. kr in year. So they've got a big increase. But some of the funds that were on the state budget, we've used for other cultural purposes, we don't have to hide that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e897	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e900	For the Right, it's important that everyone has an opportunity to experience art and culture, no matter where they live in the country. I am pleased with the effort that is now being made. A 9 pst growth. on the cultural budget, it shows that the Government prioritises culture and takes the first step towards fulfilling parts of the 10-year plan in the Culture Communication. Everyone in this house meets every day in the staircase hall Eidsvoll artist Arne Ekeland's beautiful and monumental image «Sisters of Freedom». I am pleased that a unanimous committee follows up earlier wishes to establish a point of view for his art at Eidsvoll, where he lived and worked his whole life. Akershus County now assumes responsibility as a regional development operator for the implementation of the project in cooperation with the Ministry. I look forward to the Ministry of the Budget for 2006 presenting concrete plans for the gallery, which, hopefully, could be completed by 2008, when Ekeland would reach the age of 100. I am very happy to be able to contribute to raising Akershus culture in line with the culture of the rest of the country. It is not about sending greetings home, as the representative Bergo mentioned in his statement. For Akerhus culture, it's about getting its fair share of cultural money. Akerhus culture has always been in the past – it has been in the shadow of Oslo, especially in theatres. Akershus Theatre is an ambulatory tour theatre that does not have a fixed ensemble or a fixed stage. They have a small, efficient administration, and the resources are going to produce notions. There has been a great demand in recent years from the municipalities of Akershus, especially in the implementation of the performing arts area in the cultural school system. There is no doubt that Akershus Theatre meets the requirements to be treated in the same way as the other regional theatres, and I am very happy to have had a majority to change the status of Akershus Theatre to a regional theatre from 2006. This will mean a lot in the years to come, and it will help to further develop the theatre and theatre offer for the Akershus population. In recent years, Norwegian film development and the two regional film centres in the West and North Norway have strengthened their position in the field of continuing training of professional film workers. But for those film players who don't come from Norwegian film schools, or who are already in the industry, it's now a void. It is of the opinion on the right that it is important to safeguard the young talents and develop competent environments within the established educational institutions as well. The media factory in Akershus, which has 20 years of experience in film work with young people, has both the competence and the capacity to meet this need. Very many of those who today work professionally in the film or TV industry have their background from the Media Factory. They work in close cooperation with the professional film industry, and have the necessary skills to help develop talents that have ideas and concrete projects and that need professional and administrative assistance for their implementation. In addition, they have the competence to participate in projects such as the manufacturer in the form of guidance, production assistance, financial management and marketing. This is a unique project, and I am pleased to have the majority agree that this offer needs to be further developed. A permanent offer should be made to the semi-professional production environment in the field of film, so that good talents and good projects are given a real opportunity to develop. I encourage the Council of State to follow up on this. In the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, the Government Parties have also allocated NOK 200 000 to the Media Factory. It's a small sum, but it's a good start, and it'll mean a lot to the development of the media factory. One last thing I want to mention is that through the agreement we have granted a further NOK 500,000 for the operation of the Rikspolitische Zentrum on Eidsvoll, called the "Wergeland House", so that the new building can be used. The solemn opening shall be 9 May next year in connection with the 100th anniversary. Of course, I want the President and the rest of the Stortinget to take a trip to the Constitutional District to attend this event.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e921	We'll see if we can't do that! The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e926	Culture is what can lead a thought from the head down to the heart, but often vice versa, from the heart up to the head. The Committee has recorded on its countless journeys around the country that there is a lot of culture growing around in our long-range, beautiful country. There's a bubble activity growing up from below. Christian People's Party is pleased with the increased activity as, among other things, the tax credit for gifts to non-governmental organisations has triggered – there is a high interest and high level of commitment from people that will support different types of voluntary work. A place where it grows is in the South – a part of the country that celebrated its 100 years with pride, which has not always been what we are best known to do. When a majority in the South decided to sell large shares of the energy company, I was, after all, happy that the funds were put into a fund, Cultiva, which benefits cultural life by means that enable cultural life to flourish. Cross-cultural cooperation can deliver good and creative results. It can provide good synergies. In the South we have a collaboration between orchestras and theaters that have resulted in Opera South. Unfortunately, this has been satisfied with a small amount of money from the capital. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee is increasing the appropriation for this by 500 000 kroner. This cooperation is probably also the reason why the idea of establishing a joint concert and theatre house has been speeded up. Planning has come a long way, and in these days there is a bunch of suggestions from architects about how the new house can stay at the fort in Kristiansand. The aim is to place significant funds in the pot locally and regionally, nearly 700 million. kr. That's why this is a project that is well worth looking at, and I'm glad this is now a matter for the majority to ask for to come back to Stortinget. I am pleased with the words of the Council of State Valgerd Svarstad Haugland said in relation to this project here in the Chamber today. Knowing where you're from to know where you're going, we often say. In the South we have a documentation centre from the war, where we have had an exhibition at the Archives Foundation, a torture chamber that shows some of our history in the South, but at the same time points forward towards a peace exposure, to teach us something about where we came from in the South and where we want to be going. I am pleased that the Committee has managed to increase the allocation by NOK 200,000 to this project as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e941	It is necessary and crucial to strengthen the development of the regional film industry in order to establish film and TV production as a cultural industry and as an economic pathway. It is important and appropriate to strengthen the development of the film industry with the creation of a new entry 73, for support for regional film betting in Norway. This will strengthen Norway as a film nation. This will develop greater diversity, more professional environments and more competition in the Norwegian film industry. This strengthens artistic and cultural quality objectives and contributes to regional cultural and economic development. A stronger regionalised industry close to attractive film locations will also strengthen cooperation with international actors and strengthen Norway as a film nation. Since the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the Advance Party, made a settlement on the allocation of these important resources, a whole section of the country was translated — and it was completely without professional justification. I ask myself questions and am not so little surprised that Film Camp in North Norway has not been allocated funds, and this has given me a great disadvantage. Film Camp is well established. They have also gone further than some of the others who have benefited from funds. They are as designed to be allocated such regional funds. They are part of the same network as the others, and they are the consultative body of the ministry. There is no logical explanation and reason why they should not be included. I don't just get frustrated, but I get almost pissed off. This shall not be possible. Is the majority really aware of what they've done, and are they going to correct this bias? I'll challenge the majority once again today. With what reason has a whole part of the country gone by? Because the answer I got earlier today from the Right is not real. Should film development, which has started well in the north, be put in the back of the line? Isn't the proposal for unfair and competitive distribution? Does not the majority believe that this needs to be corrected, and when should it be corrected, so that Film Camp can be awarded on equal terms and on equal terms with others in the industry? This is politics at its worst. I demand and expect a real answer here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e954	It is the President’s view that the representative should be ‘cursed’ elsewhere than in the Parliament’s pulpit. It is not exactly a word that the President considers to be particularly parliamentary. There are a lot of other words that you can use, that cover the exact same area, to say it like that. The President intends to continue this morning's meeting until we finish the three-minute speeches, for the sake of someone who has something else they'll be able to reach. If the representatives don't have a lot to do with it, we'll try.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e959	Art and culture are self-valued and essential for the development of the individual's identity, quality of life and commitment. The Norwegian cultural landscape is characterised by well-developed cultural institutions and a professional art life, with highly skilled, creative and performing artists. At the same time, Norway has a broad and valuable public involvement in voluntary cultural activities. It is therefore necessary to provide a better framework for both professional and amateur-based culture – a framework that stimulates the country’s artists, regardless of whether they are free and independent or active within cultural institutions. It is also important to develop cultural policy in a way that stimulates interest in the cultural field among the minority population, which has its roots in other countries and cultures. Promoting meeting places for artistic development and cultural exchange can create access, communication and mutual understanding across cultural differences. In an increasingly open international society, it is also important that the cultural sector exploits the opportunities and addresses the challenges it presents. Cross-border interactions and cooperation between cultural institutions in different countries are therefore becoming increasingly important. Today, cultural diversity is largely about art and culture where minorities are actors. But what it very rarely focuses on is that minorities are largely not participants in art and culture. You don't meet them in a museum, a theater or an exhibition. This means that it grows up a generation of people who are not in contact with Norwegian art and cultural life. Cultural participation is a crucial part of the identity-building process for equality and integration. The challenge in this area will therefore be to initiate and strengthen measures to ensure that minorities take the majority in a natural way in artistic and cultural terms. In this respect, I am very pleased that all parties – except the Progress Party – in the Committee have supported our comment on the importance of ensuring an economic foundation for cultural activities that emerge from the minority communities, and I hope that the Council of State can follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e970	There have now been three more speakers for three minutes, in addition to the Eirin Fallet. Is there anyone else that wants to draw? If so, the President will cancel this morning's meeting after Eirin Fallet has spoken. If you want more people to have the word, you have to draw them now. - There's no more drawing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e973	The majority in the United Kingdom believe that the NRC has an important role in society as a public broadcaster. Public information, news, knowledge dissemination, a broad cultural effort, entertainment and dissemination of the Norwegian language are central in this context. All members of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, state that we do not ‘want competition and rating to be given a too dominant position in the NRC to be at the expense of development, innovation and diversity’. The working party is concerned with culture for children, and we know that children spend a lot of their time in front of TV. Then there's reason for us adults to be critical of what our children see. We adults require quality. Why shouldn't we demand that for our children too? Our children's offers must be of high quality. We who have grown up with the NRK are pleased with the efforts that the channel still has on good children's programmes. It is expensive to make good TV programmes, and when quality is put into the high seat, it is easy to understand that a channel that the Storting itself has decided to be free of advertising needs to be licensed. Personally, I would like to have paid more in the license if the money had gone to make better and even more programmes for children and young people. For 100 million. The NRK can thank channels like Cartoon, which otherwise only send American and other foreign comics, and replace them with programs with live people, on which the NRK is so good. In this budget, the Committee has only adjusted the licence price. But quality costs, so I encourage the Council of State to follow up the possibilities that NRK has for creating good, non-commercial programs for children. Finally, since the committee leader took a list of good actions in Akershus, I must almost be allowed to enter into a bet that the Festival Games in Elverum do in relation to the youth symphony. Now I've masted in, it seems like a hundred years, but it's maybe a little bit smaller, that this is going to be a node institution, and now I'm asking for the last time, no, not the last, but far ahead: can the party games in Elverum soon get node status?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e985	The representative, Sonja Sjøli, told me in his post that she did not send Christmas cards home to Akershus. I agree: Her installation was probably an entire Christmas calendar and no Christmas card! In my main post, I was inside the boys' music and the school music. What I didn't get to say was that it was usually a follow-up, which is a new start-up in Norway that embraces both the folk music environment, the jazz environment and the rock environment. For the rest of Culture Norway, these groupings have produced common plans and priorities for the coming years. Of course, the ambitions extend beyond what we, who are behind the cultural promise, can immediately fulfill, but the direction and priority we agree with, and we should do our part so that the good ideas and plans can be put into practice. The report from Festival-Norway is that it's going to go pretty bad. Worse, there are those fixed scenes, which are not fully commercial. Last week we could read about Blue, in my opinion Oslo's unmistakably most exciting scene in recent years, and the problems they had. I am glad that it seems to have resolved in the short term, but the situation for Blue gives us some signals we know so well from before. We who have frequented these clubs for a while, remember the problems with Club 7, we know Cosmopolite, and it's the same situation in other major cities and where they have such types of places. We need such arenas, not just in Oslo, but more places around the country. In the case of Norwegian jazz scene, which is perhaps the most prominent at present, not only in Norway but also abroad, the situation is that the scenes exist, the clubs exist, but there is no funding for the realisation of a Norwegian national jazz scene. We're going to have to put that in place soon. Other, e.g. on Voss and on Kongsberg, we see that the festivals have grown local clubs with year-round operations. At Voss you have the freight, and in Kongsberg you have what is called EnergyMølla. The result is linked to good, established festivals with year-round operations, and they have also proved to be good venues for other singers, for example. within the framework of the Consensus. I think the agreement sounds fine, and I delight in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e998	There has been a trend from the government parties in some of these budget debates that the opposition seems to be talking too much about resources. We heard the Minister of Education yesterday say that the Workers' Party was only occupied with resources. And we've heard it from the government parties today. Well, this is the Storting's budget debate. The budget is about allocating resources, how to prioritise the use of the money the state has in total. So if you don't want to talk about resources, you've come to the wrong hall and to the wrong debate. It is clear that in the cultural field it is about – as much there as in all other important sectors – what choices we make and how we will bet. I record that the Council of State was unable to respond when I asked what tracks we can look for in the 2005 budget, after what is stated in the Culture Communication, when one ignores the things that were largely adopted before the Council of State's own period. It is said that the buildings have ‘taken’ the budget. That's not true in other areas. In the field of education, for example, as I know, it's not that because the Blinder builds a new university library, you have to throw out 2,000 to 3,000 students. It doesn't work that way. The buildings are phased in and phased out, it knows in particular the president, who has been sitting and administering these building arrangements, and they are impact-adjusted, as it is called away in the Ministry of Finance, which is a very nice thing when it goes up, and a very stupid thing when it goes down. So in relation to the fact that you have not received money for operation, you cannot use the buildings as an excuse. That's what's the problem, that all the expectations placed in the cultural message and the treatment afterwards are not met. It is clear that the government parties have begun to prepare for the existence of the opposition. The representative Lånke has been largely concerned with talking about the cultural promise in his lines. We are pleased because we really hope that it sets the agenda for the election campaign. The government parties have begun to adapt to the opposition situation to the extent that they even start making replies to their own government councils, with written answers. There's also something we can look forward to: you'll get a lot more lines in the next big period. We're not so sure that we're going to form government after the next election, but we really hope that we get it, and one of the reasons we want it, is that we can implement the Cultural Promise – fifteen points that will mean mass. I'm recording that the Council of State prefers not to talk about the cultural school. If I were a state councillor, I'd be worried about what's going on with the cultural schools around Norway. Prices are set up and the offer is cut – not because of the cultural budget, not because of the Ministry of Education’s budget, but because of the local economic framework. I see that the Council of State boasts of the Cultural Sect when she speaks, and says that the Department has provided the Cultural Sect. No, the department hasn't. It's the Stortinge that's provided for it, against the votes of the government parties, but I think that's the only thing that's going to stand as a big cultural promise from this great period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e1015	‘Budjet is about allocating resources’, said the representative Giske. But that's also a little bit of a way to do it. Now the cultural budgets have once again contributed to boosting the expectations of cultural life. I think it's going to be a tough job to fulfill them if it's going to happen so that they get into the government position after the election. Now it's the voters who have to decide, and they might have a different opinion about it. But maybe it would be best if you let go, when you've turned your expectations so sky high in the weather, because it's going to be a tough meeting with reality. But at least I understand that if that happens, we will face a completely different priority within the cultural budget. I also understand that, among other things, the deduction of gifts to non-governmental organisations will be removed for the moment. It could, I think, have been good for the many organisations around the country of Norway that enjoy this money today, to know for sure if that's how it will be after the election, if this alliance comes to power. So just a few words at the end about the National Museum of Art, which has not been given so much attention in this debate. It is a very important project that is taking shape on the Tullin onions. The fact that the Ministry has now also taken an important step in integrating National Museums of Art is in line with the assumptions that have been made from the outset. Here it is important to stress that the purpose of this is not to escalate the art dissemination in the rest of the country. On the contrary, art dissemination will now be an important part of the responsibility of the National Museum. At a time when structures and landscapes develop, it is necessary to find new approaches, and in this case, so that the availability of art taxes can be at least as good as before for everyone in this country. It's like we've got a lot of good art museums around the country and -- I was going to say galliles. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-14.ana.ud942e1024	That concludes the debate on Framework Area 3, and it is also this morning's meeting. The debate on Framework Areas 1 and 2 will begin at 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
