ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e41	The called alternate of the Hedmark County, Helge Bjørnsen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e63	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e74	In St.meld. No 40 for 2002–03, on the reduction of disability barriers, the Government comes up with its strategies, objectives and measures in the policy for people with disabilities. In this message the Government strongly specifies the traditional way of looking at disability as a property of the individual. The title of this large-scale message, ‘Disaster of Disability Barriers’, just underlines this fact. The message indicates that the societal barriers are what causes disabled people to become disabled. The Committee endorses the Government's view of this area and stresses that it is not obvious that people with disabilities become disabled, but that this will depend on how society can adapt. Disability occurs only when there is a gap between the individual's requirements on one side and the design of the environment on the other side. A collective committee supports the Government's vision and its objectives that people with disabilities should have the possibility of personal development, participation and life-long development in society in the same way as all other citizens of society. This clear view of value, provided by the biomedical way of looking at disability and the focus on building down societal barriers, changes the focus of this debate. This is a change that a collective committee has chosen to follow up. The Committee's plurality, the members of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, have agreed with the Government that there are no simple measures that can solve all the challenges we face in terms of education, working life, culture and leisure and health and social services for this group. If such simple measures existed, one would of course have implemented them a long time ago. Future-oriented results depend on targeted and systematic work over time, where awareness-raising and wide mobilisation at all levels of society and administration must be central. A comprehensive committee is busy with the need to increase the accessibility of disabled people so that all disabled people can enjoy good access to buildings, the outdoor environment, the product and services. The Universal Design Principle is also one of the main keys to the Government to increase accessibility for disabled people. As a result, the Committee supports the principle of universal design as a basis for new buildings and new acquisitions, and that the principle is mainly applicable in areas such as transport, construction, outdoors and information. The Universal Design Action Programme started in 2002, and this message will signal very clearly that it should be improved and significantly expanded. The Committee believes that the dissemination of knowledge on universal design is crucial and supports the work of the Delta Centre and the four-year cross-cutting effort under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council to increase the availability of information and communication technologies. The Committee supports the Government's view that the principle of universal design should be assessed in all relevant matters of State administration, and the Committee has good reason to believe that we have a great potential for improvement in this field. A joint committee has also noted the efforts made by the Government in the field of research and the efforts made by the Government in this area. A gathering committee should call this offensive. The creation of a documentation centre to gather information and develop tools to report on developments within these different social sectors in relation to the situation of people with disabilities, together with the strong commitment to IT Funk, is being promoted as a decision for the Committee. The Committee also supports the Government's desire to strengthen user involvement at municipal level for disabled people and supports the proposal to legislate for user representation. The Committee also wants municipalities to be given some freedom in the field. The Committee's plurality, the members of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, know that in municipalities that have already established municipal councils, there has been a greater awareness of the needs of the user groups and that the actual changes that have taken place have had a positive impact on the life situation of disabled people. This plurality therefore asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for the legalisation of municipal councils during 2004. The Committee's plurality, the members of the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, support the Government's intention that organisations for people with disabilities should have great freedom to organise their own work, and that umbrella organisations should obtain legitimacy from the participating organisations. The majority therefore believe that there are many good reasons why the funding of umbrella organisations should be channelled through membership organisations. The majority will stress that no organisation should tend or lose its involvement in one umbrella organisation rather than another, and it should be entirely possible to choose which umbrella one would like to be a member of. This builds up under the self-destination principle, where each organisation legitimises the umbrella organisation they want to participate in. So this multiple goes in for 5 million. kr in FFO fixed contributions, to maintain the important support and support provided by the FFO to its organisations, and that the rest is distributed abroad as operational support to the organisations before the FFO today. Work and education are a central gateway to participation in the community. Allowing humans to use their creative abilities through an active professional life is good for individuals, but also for society as a whole. The Committee has therefore given a clear signal that all people should be seen as a resource and not as a burden on society. The transition between school and work may be difficult for people with disabilities. The Committee therefore welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Education and Research will give priority to developing cooperation procedures between the School and Aetat in order to facilitate the transition, thereby clarifying the responsibilities of the various actors. The Committee also welcomes the provision of funds to establish a national driver and network function in NTNU linked to the promotion of a better learning environment. The Committee’s plurality, the members of the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People’s Party, ask the Government to consider whether to facilitate practical arrangements and summer work projects for young people with disabilities in education, when the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Labour and Administration, in cooperation, are to draw up a circular to stimulate cross-sectoral cooperation at local level in order to facilitate the transition between education and work. The Committee believes that a key to better living conditions for people with disabilities is related to the possibility of paid work. One of the measures taken by the Committee is the report to be prepared by the AAD on the situation of disabled persons in carrying out annual additional studies for the Labour Force Survey. The Committee is also pleased that legal involvement of users in Aetat was established in 2003. The Committee has decided to focus heavily on families with disabled children. The Committee believes that the objective of the provision of services to families with disabled children is to provide them with services that are coordinated and adapted to the needs of the family, so that the family is able to care for their children. Children with reduced function often need extensive and extensive assistance from various parts of the public utility. This very often implies that families must be in contact with many auxiliary services because of lack of coordination and coordination of service provision. This message takes important cleanups here to improve the situation, and the committee follows it up and reinforces it. The Committee is busy avoiding the wear and tear of families and their care ability and underlines the need for easily accessible unloading schemes. The Committee also believes that it is important for one to exchange experience with others in the same situation, and believes that it is important to create meeting places for families with disabled children. It is also stressed that it is important that schools set up and cooperate with those who coordinate the individual plans according to health and social legislation, so that the health concerns surrounding the children and the need for family members are taken care of. In order to facilitate the coordination of families with disabled children, families should now be given a permanent coordinator in social security matters. The Committee also believes that it is important to have a permanent coordinator at municipal level for families with disabled children, who are responsible for coordinating the work of family members. The Committee believes that it is important for parents who have children with disabilities that they receive adequate information and guidance. The Committee therefore supports the establishment of an offer for families with children with disabilities under the direction of learning and mastering centres throughout the country. The Committee believes that competence for service providers is crucial in this context, and is therefore satisfied with the Government's commitment to a two-year plan aimed at care managers who have a lot of contact with families with disabled children. The Committee is very concerned that having a child with disabilities can be a major burden on society. The Committee therefore supports the establishment of a nationwide provision of life guidance for parents with disabled children. This strong focus is very fond of the Christian People's Party, a focus we have long tried to have on this matter. I'm counting on the other parties to take up their main proposals. This message contains 120 actions and is a good starting point for further work on reducing the gap between the individual's aspirations and society's demands by changing society's demands and the individual's aspirations. It is important that in this debate we do not make great promises that we cannot fulfill. The most important thing today is that we are able to send a signal that the biomedical way of looking at disability is old-fashioned and expired. I would therefore recommend the Roma in the setting behind the government party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e116	Tomorrow is World Book Day. All 6th and 7th grade children will receive a book tomorrow as a gift from the Learning Center, just not the children who are blind, who are faint, or who have other reading problems. It upsets me. Every day, disabled people in Norway are discriminated against, through attitudes and through actions. Man-made disability barriers prevent disabled people from participating in the workplace, in school and in leisure under the same conditions as health care. And they have far worse living conditions than the average. Examples of everyday life are many, and a random example is from Westfold. In Tønsberg's magazine on 31 January this year you can read that Kristian Aslaksen tried to get into the Brygga Cafe in Holmestrand, but was told that he could not come in because he had not wanted to knock the door. That's just an example. We are aware that the blind and partially sighted give away the mini-bank code to random people, and that public transport is not organised for disabled people. We all have a responsibility for that being the case. No politician can be proud of the job done for disabled people. In all social planning, we should think about the disabled. Through the work of the Manneråk Committee, as set out in NOU 2001:22, from user to citizen, a thorough effort has been made to shed light on the living conditions of disabled people in Norway. The Manneråk Committee's investigation gave the people with disabilities hope that systematic work would be started to improve their chances of life development and participation in society. The detailed description of the reality of disabled persons by the Manneråk Committee is reproduced in the Official Journal of the European Communities. No 40 for 2002–03 Destruction of disability barriers, which are being addressed today. There is a basis for developing a comprehensive policy and strategy to improve the living conditions of people with disabilities. But the government has not used this occasion. The notification details small and large actions that have been completed or are being implemented and contains little new ones. The policy and the whole is difficult to understand in detail. The message bears the impression that the Government does not want to take up work on measures for disabled people now, if it is concluded that disabled people are systematically excluded from different social arenas. Clearly, there has been no room for spending money on disabled people in the entire government policy, where tax relief is to be financed by cuts in welfare schemes. The working party considers that binding action plans are necessary, with concrete measures and deadlines. Only then can we achieve the goal of full equality and participation for people with disabilities. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that, together with the other opposition parties, through the processing of the notification, we require the Government to draw up an action plan to increase accessibility in key areas for the disabled. When we demand deadlines and obligations from the state related to the financing of the action plan, we understand that this is laborious and long-term work. The more important it is to have a systematic plan. Discrimination against people with disabilities shall be combated. The Labour Party therefore believes that we need to use the most powerful tool we have. That is why we are in favour of the creation of an anti-discrimination law. We expect the government to come back to Stortinget with a bill. We believe that there must be control and supervision that ensures compliance with the law, but that is what we will get back to when we deal with the law. Accessibility in the transport sector is a prerequisite for the participation of people with disabilities in society. Therefore, the Workers' Party considers that the granting of concessions on transport requires accessibility for disabled persons. It is with interest that we have noticed that the Government places great emphasis on user involvement both in this message and in other contexts. Users’ perceptions shall be given great importance in the design of public schemes. It is then alarming that the Government and the Committee number choose to disregard the unique advice provided by the organisations of disabled people about the grant schemes of their organisations. The Workers’ Party agrees with the organisations of disabled people that the State must facilitate the organisation’s having a common political speaker. We think it's best to do that by continuing today's funding of the umbrella organisations. There have been improvements in the living conditions of people with mental retardation in the last decade, but in the Workers' Party we are nevertheless concerned that the focus on other groups has been at the expense of further development of the supply of mental retardation. We are particularly concerned that small municipalities lack the competence to provide this group with an adequate range of services. Recruitment measures and empowerment measures should be implemented in our view. Where small municipalities are not able to guarantee this competence, the habilitation service must assist. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the situation of disabled children and their families. Despite good intentions and measures, children with disabilities and their dependants face a demanding everyday life. The auxiliaries are very fragmented and often uncoordinated. Parents need to make a significant effort to make the relief measures work together and on a day-to-day basis. A strategy plan has recently been presented to address the organisation and development of health services for children with disabilities and chronically ill children and their parents. We assume that the department follows closely the implementation of this plan. I am therefore addressing the proposals on which the Workers' Party has been involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e146	The representative of Gunn Olsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e149	Disability arises in the gap between the demands of society and the assumptions of some of us. It is important to note this definition, because it underlines that disability cannot only be understood as characteristics of the individual. It's e.g. not just the paralysis that creates disability, but the obstacles created by those who believe that everyone can walk. Nor is it just the lack of vision that creates disability, but obstacles created by anyone who can see. The main issue of accessibility is that there is a low level of awareness and poor competence of many in the public and private sectors who are investigating, planning and deciding on the design of buildings, the outdoor environment, products and services. There's a huge gap between the overall goals we've set ourselves and the reality that people with disabilities are living with today. The challenge, therefore, is to think anew. Not least, it's about getting the users on board. The government will legislate user participation at municipal level and the government parties have intervened to do so in the form of municipal councils. The Communication focuses specifically on accessibility, education, work and services. Having a job to do is the most important factor in good living conditions. The government has set itself the following objectives: to ensure economic and social protection for individuals. Service, training and qualification shall be based on individual needs. More people who can benefit from their abilities and facilities for the benefit of sea and society must be able to get to work. The objective is therefore active participation and full equality, both in terms of access to higher education and to the labour market. In order to facilitate the recruitment of more disabled people, the Government has taken various measures. For example, the Memorandum of Understanding between the social partners and the authorities can be mentioned. The abstinence of enterprises in the provision of facilities at the workplace for people with disabilities has now been eliminated for all enterprises. The Ministry of Labour and Administration will draw up a plan of measures for the increased recruitment of persons with disabilities to the public sector. It is important that the public sector takes responsibility and takes the lead and shows private employers that it benefits. A new training programme has been launched in the country on the UN standard rules, which is part of a strategy for enhancing competence, in order to ensure a high level of awareness of universal design, investigation, planning and procedures in the departments. Important measures in the plan will relate to the empowerment of staff, enhanced user involvement and cooperation with the Government’s Disability Council. At the same time, it is important to impose requirements on investigations and procedural procedures. The main challenge will be to create awareness and knowledge of the conditions of the disabled, to create a willingness to build up the barriers of the disabled and to disseminate knowledge of universal, good solutions. The government will therefore stimulate universal design to take all planning into account. Transport challenges are significant, as also mentioned in the national transport plan. The testing scheme for work and training travel shall be evaluated. In the light of the evaluation of the experiment, the Government will decide whether the scheme should be permanent. There are many different social benefits and transport schemes, and there is a need to see them in a context. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Security will set up a working group to review public schemes and social benefits, such as the TT system and the benefits of popular interest, with the aim of proposing changes that ensure a good transport offer and contribute to the more comprehensive, coordinated and rational functioning of the schemes than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e166	This communication, which is currently being discussed, is a major and very important matter for many individuals and organisations. Making clear the goals, measures and strategies for how to overcome all the barriers that disabled people face today in society is something we really need to take seriously. The decisions taken today are not the solution to all the day-to-day problems facing disabled people. We cannot push under the carpet that if we are to get to a society that gives an almost equal access for everyone to all areas of society, this will not only cost money, but also require all of us as citizens to change our attitude as to how society must be structured in the future. It is not acceptable to, for example: a wheelchair user is not free to move in a city in today’s Norway or that blind persons are not able to find their way into a public building because lifts and entrances are not arranged in such a way that the blind can be briefed. However, it is important to innovate that some of the changes that need to be made will take some time to put in place. Looking at developments in recent years, a number of positive measures have been taken in society to better include people with some major disabilities, so that they can function as normally as possible in society, but there should only be a lack of such action. However, it is important to take inward that very much remains. There was a great deal of discussion on how to finance the umbrella organisations in the future in the context of the presentation of this Communication. This was known to come, as the Government initially proposed to remove the entire grant to the umbrella organisation FFO, and then, in the next round, to distribute these funds to all disabled people's organisations, whether they were members of the FFO or not. The main argument for doing this was that it had to be up to individual membership organisations themselves to fund their own umbrella organisation. This argument would be very comprehensible and sensible if the JRC had only been responsible for the interests of its own organisations. However, this is not the case. In addition to being a pure umbrella organisation, the JRC has also undertaken a number of other important tasks — the operation of the rating centre, which is useful for all disabled people, they are an important negotiating partner in connection with, for example, the use of the rights centre. the establishment of social security schemes and they carry out a number of investigations and consultations. It is therefore gratifying that the Progress Party has managed to achieve a financing solution that would ensure both a more organisationally managed umbrella organisation, and not least that the JRC will be able to continue its work both with the Rights Centre and as an important social contact and cooperation partner for the public and, where appropriate, others who need the knowledge and guidance information provided by the JRC in the various fields. By ensuring that the FFO now has a basic allocation of 5 million. It should now be an affordable task to secure the remaining amount of money to be used to continue at the current level, if desired by the individual membership organisations, as it appeared during the consultations with the Social Committee, and in particular since the contribution between this amount and the funds currently allocated to the JRC is to be allocated by reference to the number of members of the FFO's own membership organisations. It is gratifying that one of the proposals that the Progress Party has been promoting for a number of years is now finally receiving majority support from the government parties. This is, of course, about the proposal to legislate on the establishment of municipal councils for disabled people. This is very important, so that municipal councils for people with disabilities are given a status and an important place in most municipalities. It is a fact that many of the obstacles and problems that disabled people face in everyday life are largely due to lack of knowledge and local organisation. We as legislators will never be able to solve all these problems a hundred percent, as many of the problems that this is about, including. is due to attitudes and lack of knowledge and understanding of the problems of the disabled. The actual design of how municipal councils are to be organised and the size of a municipality in order for such a statutory council to be required, the Government will have to come back in 2004. I have to say that it is disappointing that the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party do not support the legalisation of municipal councils for disabled people. The Progress Party believes that today's organisation of social action, social security and the labour market situation in itself is an obstacle to the possibility of a more rapid reduction of disability barriers. Persons with disabilities who wish to work depend to a large extent on a well-organised job in order to function as fully as possible. In a number of different situations in life, disabled people face all three existing institutions. As these floors are organized today, as they work, with watertight bulkheads in between, they become as much an obstacle to the individual user as organizers. In connection with the submission of St.meld. No 14 for 2002-2003 The Government proposed a new organisation of welfare services in Norway. The government's proposal was that one should continue to maintain two state agencies, but with a slightly different division of labour. In the opinion of the Progress Party, such reorganisation into two institutions will not contribute to a system that meets the needs of users for effective, rapid and correct solutions in today's society, where time factors, economics and the desire to work as far as possible characterise everyday life. Today's organisation with three autonomous levels of government to cover their respective costs of different benefits has created unnecessary time use, long waiting times, unnecessary use of funds and inefficient processes. The Party does not wish to continue a system in which reasonable solutions are rejected in favour of significantly more expensive means of saving part of the administrative expenditure, which others have to cover. It is important to point out that there are currently large differences between municipalities in the provision of social assistance and in the quality and quantity of social services provided by municipalities. A greater feature of private services, generally in competition with public authorities, will improve choice for users and a better economic approach for society. The introduction of a new funding system, better adapted to individual needs, is required in the future. One has been able to notice for a long time the strong weight of the Government is putting more people into work and fewer passive benefits. In this case, this cannot be said to apply, as the Government is proposing insufficiently sufficient and effective measures that could make disabled people fit for a good and long-term job. If a few more are going to do this, it depends on getting a new organization of the agencies that are currently running welfare and planning tasks. It is therefore important that, on the part of the Council of State, progress be made in bringing forward a case for the Storting, where the result must be a single welfare centre to replace the current social, labour and social security system. It is important that a person has the overall objective of being able to work as much as possible and thus be an active participant in society, both socially and in the form of participation in the labour market. It is worth noting that, despite the agreement on an inclusive working life, the number of people with disabilities has actually fallen recently. The work done by individual organisations on equal opportunities is perhaps the most effective and profitable aid received by disabled people in order to deal best with the challenges that everyday life often presents. In future, the Progress Party will give priority to channelling funds into this area. It's sad that the other parties are not in the position to step up this grant in the future. It is a fact that being able to receive help and support from people who are either in or have been in the same situation as themselves is of great benefit and importance, so that they can best cope with the problems and challenges of meeting people with disabilities in society. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal from the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e189	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e192	The matter we are dealing with today should be a follow-up to the 2001 Manneråk Committee's suspension, from user to citizen. This public investigation provided a very good basis for formulating a policy aimed at building up and removing the social barriers that close disabled people from active and full participation in all areas of society. These are areas such as education, employment, housing, transport, leisure and cultural life and other social arenas. In working with this big message, SV has focused on just this. We have therefore put forward a number of proposals aimed at ensuring both important rights and implementing measures in different areas, which should contain deadlines, and not least financial obligations on the part of the country in implementing the measures. The lack of concrete and committed action is the major weakness of Government policy in this area, as expressed in this message. The reason seems to be obvious: this will cost money, some quite a lot of money! The organization says it correctly in the following message: «Completing a full availability target for all will require very large investments which the government considers incompatible with the requirements of a tight budget and the needs for action in other areas.» These are pure words for the money. Despite beautiful words about a noble view of value and good, ideal goals, there are other areas in which this government wants to prioritise more than improving the situation of people with disabilities. I would like to remind you that disabled people are among the groups with the lowest level of education, the lowest level of professional participation and the lowest level of living in our society, as well as the many challenges these encounters are about accessibility in terms of construction, facilities, transport, leisure and cultural services, etc. An important issue to ensure full rights is the issue of an anti-discrimination law. The Manneråk Committee recommended that such a law be drawn up, and the sample also provided clear and important guidance as to the purpose and scope of a law. The government has set up a legal committee to assess this issue, and SV will fully support the development of such a law. In line with the recommendation of the Manneråk Committee, SV also proposes to establish its own independent supervision in order to prevent discrimination and safeguard the disabled with special rights. In addition, SV believes that there is a need to review existing legislation in many different areas in order to ensure that people with disabilities have the same rights as others. The most important means of achieving equality for people with disabilities is to increase the opportunities and availability of education and work. Education and skills are an important prerequisite for participation in the labour market in a modern society. For people with disabilities, this may be even more crucial. There are currently very many disabled people who will and can be in work but do not enter the labour market. And the situation is getting worse, unfortunately. According to the Central Statistical Office, 20,000 disabled people have fallen out of the labour market in the last year. A recently published survey shows that among 40 countries surveyed, Norway is one of the worst causes of exclusion from work. This unacceptable trend can only be reversed by the fact that the actions taken, directed towards education and work for this group, become far more concrete, targeted and committed. Since education is so fundamental to participation in the labour market, extensive measures need to be introduced in the education sector from primary to higher education. The right to organised education is enshrined in the Training Act, but unfortunately it is still a long way to go before this is a real right for all. The strained resource situation in many municipalities is an important obstacle to creating a school that provides equal opportunities for all. Not least the investments needed to make school buildings and facilities much more physically accessible. I am therefore pleased that a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre Party are asking the Government to present an action plan to increase the accessibility of transport, buildings and other social arenas and that this plan should contain both deadlines and state co-responsibility for funding. This is absolutely necessary in order to take some important steps forward in terms of accessibility and equality. The same majority also agree to ask the Government to propose that the quality reform in higher education must ensure quality and equal accessibility also for disabled students, and to ask the Government to ensure that the study funding schemes do not impose additional costs on students related to the disability. These are important areas where the majority of population facilitates a more offensive and targeted policy for the reduction of disability barriers than the Government has provided in the Single European Act. It is an important objective for SV that, as far as the level of function of an individual allows, everyone can have responsibility for and control over his or her own life and everyday life. In this context, the system of user-led personal assistance, the so-called BPA scheme, is a very important tool. Many have put this system into operation, and the feedback we get is that this system is good, but it needs to be expanded and improved in order for it to work even better. I am therefore also very pleased that the opposition parties here in the Chamber are gathering on a proposal where the Stortinget asks the Government to investigate improvements to this scheme, both in terms of rights, scope and content of the service, and in terms of how the State can contribute to the financing of the scheme together with the municipalities. With regard to this last point, which concerns funding, experience shows that the use of the scheme is severely restricted by a tight local economy. It is to remedy this that the majority wants some state co-financing. In Sweden they have an arrangement where the municipalities finance the first 20 hours, while the state finances the excess. This is a system that reminds us a lot of the one we have here in this country when it comes to particularly resource-intensive users. So, the question of financing disabled people's organisations. Through the work of the social committee, both in this matter and in many other cases, I get at least a clear impression of the important work these organisations are doing for their members, both as an arena for meeting and sharing mutual experience, in order to get concrete support in different contexts and not least as a spokesperson of interest to local and central authorities. Many of these organisations are small and have little ability to carry out effective and comprehensive policy-making on their own. For this reason, these organisations consider themselves to be well organised in a larger umbrella organisation, as is common in other areas of organisation, such as: in the sport movement. The Government is now proposing to remove the grant to the umbrella organisations and, in the Grand Duchy, is supported by the Progress Party to significantly reduce the grant to the FFO and distribute these funds to the individual membership organisation. This is done despite the fact that all member organisations under the umbrella of the FFO are opposed to such a conversion. One can only wonder what lies behind the majority's desire to give these organizations the freedom to organize their own work, which they do not want. But I notice that the majority in their comments, when they describe the important work that the FFO is doing, does not mention what member organisations do most, namely the FFO as a strong, interest-oriented organisation that can influence and lobby on behalf of different groups of disabled people. On the basis of this, I can imagine a desire to weaken this part of the umbrella organisations' business, and in that case it is worth noting. To sum up, my claim is that the bulk of the population through the treatment of this message has facilitated greater inclusion and better opportunities for education and work, in order to create better living conditions and a better living situation for people with disabilities. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions in the setting that SV has promoted alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e229	The representative, Sigbjørn Molvik, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e232	We had an action plan for people with disabilities that was valid from 1998 to 2002. Then we got a public investigation, NOU 2001:22, when the Manneråk Committee put forward its position. It is therefore time that we now adopt a plan for this work further on. The Manneråk Committee presented a very thorough and thoughtful proposal, and what was mentioned in the NOU in 2001 is most topical. There is sufficient evidence that disabled people have lower overall living conditions than the average in the population. These incomes are consistently lower than those of the rest of the population, and many have high expenditures on health care services, medicines, etc. It is important that a person take this inward when dealing with this, and that in such a plan, it is not just about physically facilitating the situation. Of course, it is important that people who are wheelchair users can develop in the big community, whether they are in town or in the country. It is important that the blind and the deaf also come out into society and get information similar to that of those who have hearing and vision. As you can see, there are many physical barriers that have to be dismantled and rebuilt. But that's the whole thing, how we're going to achieve a balance between these different groups and those that are so-called functionally healthy, which is crucial. It is therefore disappointing that the Government is to a small extent following up the changes and strategies put forward in NOO 2001:22. There is something that several of the organisations of the disabled have also pointed out in the hearings we have had in connection with the notification. The Manneråk Committee provided a good basis for a comprehensive policy and strategy to improve the situation. But it doesn't have to be that we're just aiming to reduce the gap between disabled and disabled people's health. We also have to aim to remove it. We see that many of those with disabilities have complex problems, and that they want to be able to access a user's device and for assistance that is complete. It is therefore important that we now have competence in this area, and that we can get an ombudsman system that allows those in need of help in private and public terms to get this, and that there is a complete aid that can be provided. Therefore, from the centre, we are not prepared to have representations for the different types of disability and for the different types of public schemes, but to establish a user office system in all municipalities, possibly in an intercommunal direction, so that those in need of help and assistance can get it. We will show you, among other things: to what the Cancer Association and the LHL said in the hearing on the user’s office that has been tried in the Løten municipality. We are a little disappointed that no more can agree that this should now continue in an inter-municipal cooperation in Hedmark together with the patient representative of Hedmark and Uppland and be funded by the state, so that the state takes responsibility for the proper provision of assistance to those in need in all the municipalities of the country. I've looked at the employment of the disabled and the disabled. It is very worrying that the number of unemployed in this group is increasing. In January 2004, there were over 80 000 disabled persons registered as unemployed at Aetat, with an increase of about 4000 in the last year. It is important that you now get organized so that more people can get work, get additional income and thus feel that it is a more meaningful life they go into. It is therefore of great importance that one follow the recommendation of the Manneråk Committee to have an anti-discrimination law, which is designed in accordance with the leadership of the Manneråk Committee. I believe that this law should be in place as soon as possible, and that one does not need to determine whether to have such a law. So finally a little bit about financing the organisations of the disabled. I think it is very regrettable that we are changing these arrangements now. The FFO is a large and strong organisation, which we should not be afraid of. It is an organisation that also carries out control and quality work, which we need in decision-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e252	I believe that the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2002-2003, which we have today, is full of paradoxes. I'm going to illustrate that statement by getting into what I think is one of the paradoxes that we're having today. In the message and setting, the concept of ‘user involvement’ is widely discussed. I'll quote from the message, where there's a separate chapter on user involvement. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘Users have, on the basis of democratic principles, a right to good information and to be heard in matters relating to them.’ It's a little bit further down in the same chapter: ‘As one of several strategies to improve the situation of people with disabilities, the government will strengthen user involvement.’ What, then, is the practical, political everydayness of this kind of formulation meeting here in the Chamber today? Let me use an example, which several people in particular have been dealing with, but which is a good illustration example. In the hearings in the committee, one after the other organisation that was a member of the FFO and spent a lot of its hearing on the following very concrete messages: Let's keep the current system of subsidies to the umbrella organisation FFO. All small and large, have one, crystal clear message at that point. One would then think that to strengthen user involvement, because user involvement is a democratic principle in which users should be consulted on matters relating to them, yes, it would be easy for the majority of the Stortinge to say that well, there can be no doubt that grants to organisations of disabled persons, grants to organisations that are members of the FFO, concern the disabled. There can be no doubt about it. If you want to strengthen user involvement, it would be easy to listen to them and say it's okay – of course, if you want it like that, it should be like that. Strengthening user involvement is a practical consequence. But what happens when the fine wording meets the political everyday life? Well, what happens then is that the government, in the same message where they say that they should strengthen user involvement, proposes to liquidate the entire grant to the FFO as an umbrella organisation. The majority in this room says that well, so far we're not going, but at least we're going to clearly change the principle of distribution and significantly reduce the grant to the umbrella organisation. When the fine formulations of user participation meet the majority in this room, users meet what they have met for far too many years: a political majority saying that we know better than you, we know better than you do how to distribute the subsidy to the FFO and the FFO organisations. I believe this illustrates by one example that the setting and message in very many areas is marked by a clear lack of coherence between fine words and practical action. That is why, in my opinion, this is not exactly a day of pleasure for the disabled in Norway. My main conclusion is that it's a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e275	Every day decisions are taken on the design of buildings, the outdoor environment, products and services which have a significant impact on whether disabled persons experience opportunities for participation and equality. St.meld. No 40 for 2002–03 includes objectives, strategies and measures to ensure greater participation and equality for all. On the basis of the notification, a thorough investigation is carried out. NOU 2001:22, From user to citizen, explains the situation of disabled persons. Developments are in the right direction in many areas: Extensive welfare schemes have been established. Measures and services have improved. Dwellings in the community have replaced previously centralised institutional services. There has been a gradual and extensive improvement in individual training rights. At the same time, there is a distance between the ambition of full participation and equality, and the reality of many meetings. There are no simple measures that alone solve the challenges. Long-term and systematic work is required, where actors in different sectors and at different levels of government take responsibility. The Communication represents a new view of policy. The government has wanted to focus on the societal obstacles. Disability arises in the gap between individual assumptions and social requirements. In other words, disability is not just a characteristic of the individual. The government is following the strategies recommended by the Manneråk Committee. The central position is: strengthening sectoral responsibility; increasing user involvement; improving knowledge of the situation; and societal development; applying universal design principles; I am pleased that the Storting joins both the main strategies and the measures proposed by the Government. The principle of sectoral responsibility is a necessary and fundamental strategy to achieve our main objectives. The usual social services shall provide and finance offers to disabled persons in line with the rest of the population. This must be expressed at all levels of government. The notification is therefore followed up in various sectoral messages, such as the housing notification, the cultural notification and the national transport plan. The government is committed to strengthening user involvement in state enterprises and at municipal level. I notice that the Stortinget wants to go further than the Government in regulating how the user assistance is to be done in the municipalities. This is the government coming back to. There has been too little focus on the results of actions undertaken to improve the situation. Are we on the right track, or are we going in the wrong direction? Knowledge is lacking. This is also pointed out by the Manneråk Committee. In 2004, the government will set up a national documentation centre to monitor developments and report on the status of the targets we have set. In the Communication, we are alerting a major research effort related to the situation of people with disabilities. The government has followed the recommendations of the Manneråk Committee on its own law against discrimination against persons with disabilities in the form of a separate legislative selection. The committee has been entrusted with the task of drafting proposals for a new law and/or proposing amendments to existing legislation. The selection shall also assess the need for specific bodies in order to ensure effective regulatory follow-up. The objectives of the Government’s policy on disabled persons are based on the three main challenges: increasing employment of disabled people removing societal barriers – increasing accessibility ensuring more individualised and coordinated services The government wants to facilitate a working life characterised by diversity, where each individual has his or her abilities in use. It is important for individuals, but also for society as a whole. Reduced employment of disabled persons is worrying. A coordinated and reinforced effort is required to increase the number of people employed. In St.meld. No Several instruments are presented for 40 purposes. Central is the Intention Agreement for a more inclusive working life. The revised agreement agrees to strengthen the work of employing more disabled workers. The impact report we are examining now contains 120 concrete actions that will together improve the living conditions of people with disabilities. In the 2004 government budget, the Government followed up with a proposal for appropriations for a number of actions in the three areas of education and employment, accessibility and services. In the field of employment and education, it was proposed that the employer’s abstinence in G for facilities at the workplace, funds for the organisation of the university and higher education sectors and for work clubs be abolished. Measures were proposed to increase accessibility, such as increasing knowledge of universal design and the introduction of DAISY audiobooks. Interpreting services and day-to-day manning services at the assistance centres have been strengthened. That's $30 million. SEK for a four-year bet directed by IT for disabled persons. The service offer has been strengthened. The government has presented a strategy plan to improve the provision of rehabilitation services to children. There is a commitment to empowerment measures for case handlers working with families with disabled children. Public activities must lead by example. The Government shall submit a plan of measures for the recruitment of disabled persons to the public sector. In St.meld. No 45 for 2002–03 Improve the quality of municipal care services, several measures are proposed to improve the quality of services. Increased competence of those working in the sector, the cooperation agreement with the CS and the development of quality indicators are central here. In St.meld. No 40 have concentrated on measures to improve the services of disabled young people. An important measure is the new funding mechanism for resource-intensive users. In the 2004 state budget, this was reinforced by 550 million. NOK 1,2 billion. Municipalities are reimbursed a large proportion of the expenditure and are well founded on the provision of comprehensive, high-quality services. Lack of coordination and coordination of different services is a problem. Individual level is an important tool and has been extended to cover several services. The government is working on coordination of welfare services. This is a central effort to ensure a more user-friendly welfare service. Ignorance and ‘old sins’ over the years have resulted in many societal barriers for disabled people. Substantial resources are already being used to increase the availability of existing school buildings, universities and higher education institutions. We will continue to do that, but the main focus must also be to ensure that future investments promote accessibility for all. We have to do the right thing the first time, so we don't have to repair it afterwards. Remedying all old sins within tight timeframes, as proposed by the Manneråk Committee, will cost billions of dollars. The Government has not found room within a responsible budget. A responsible financial policy is precisely necessary to ensure and ensure the long-term well-being. The Committee's proposal to increase accessibility through an action plan expresses ambitions The Government shares. If the list is to be significantly higher than proposed by the Government, the Storting must also find cover within the budget framework. The government has presented objectives and strategies in the policy for people with disabilities through the Storing Communication. This shall be followed up by the Government. This is an area where the challenge is not always a matter of resources, but also a question of attitudes and values of each of us. By shifting the focus and attention of individuals from their functioning to society’s demands and devices, the Government wants to help change these attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e373	At the end of its speech, the Council of State stated that the Storting will today decide that the Government needs to draw up an action plan to increase the accessibility of disabled people with regard to transport, construction, information and other important areas of society, and that the plan must contain clear deadlines for the implementation of different measures, as well as a commitment by the State to the financing of the action plan. My question to the Council of State is about the start-up of this extensive and important work – when does the Council of State see it going? How does the Council of State see that she will involve the Storting in the work? Will the Stortinge have the plan for treatment after it has been completed? And: Will the Council of State now really take on seriously the extensive mission she is given from the Storting today, and put all the cloths into the work on such an action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e380	I will, of course, follow up majority decisions in Stortinget. What I note, however, is that there is no disagreement about visions, there is no disagreement about areas of engagement, there is no disagreement about the objectives set by the Government, which is a follow-up to the position of the Manneråk Committee. When it comes to developing an obligatory action plan, I record that the majority wants more of what the Government is already proposing, and that there should be clear deadlines for follow-up. It also mentions the areas in which the action plan is specifically intended to be followed up – and I will follow it up as quickly as possible. It is an extensive work, and it is a fairly large cost picture in this case, but I assume that the Storting and this majority are prepared to contribute to the financing of such an action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e387	Today, we have heard reasonable criticism from the representative Gunn Olsen of the Workers' Party about the government's lack of commitment and financial framework in terms of disabled people and the reduction of disabled people's barriers. This year's budget was adopted after conciliation with the Workers' Party, and in this respect I have the following questions to the Council of State: How many million kroner for this work were demanded and negotiated by the Workers' Party in connection with the conciliation when it came to work for disabled people, and what kind of action did it possibly take there? This must be a high priority in this Chamber, especially when you have heard Mr Olsen's statement by Mr Gunn. I hope the Council of State can answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e394	The government has been concerned that we should have measures and budgetary resources to help disabled people have access to both what is in the areas of society and the ability to get into work. The government has been committed to following up the budget for both the removal of 1/2G in relation to facilities at the workplace and, in addition, the provision of organisational assistance. As far as I remember, as a direct answer to the question asked by the representative, the disabled mentioned and given priority in the draft budget of the Workers' Party are not explicit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e401	In this message, the government suggests that municipalities be free to choose how the legal representation of users is organised. This is actively supported by an overall committee. At the same time, the majority, the government parties and the Progress Party, promote a proposal calling on the Government to organise statutory municipal councils in which the user representation is to be organised. This confuses me a little bit about what the majority really means. At the same time as a proposal to legislate municipal councils, the majority agrees with the Government that there should be municipal freedom in terms of organisation. It could be interesting to hear how the Council of State sees this. Will the Government, following this majority proposal that will be adopted today, propose to legislate in all Norwegian municipalities, or will there still be some municipal freedom in the organisation of user participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e408	The representative Molvik addresses an important question. As I said in my main post, the government is committed to strengthening precisely what is going on in user involvement in state enterprises and at municipal level. We have initially thought that the organisation of this should be determined locally, but I notice that the Stortinget wants to go further than the Government in regulating how the user participation is to be done in the municipalities. That's what I'm going to come back to. You can look at different options, you can focus on intermunicipal cooperation, you can look at your own sample, and you can do this together with other samples that the municipalities already have. It may also be said that a municipality of a certain size should have this, and that others can look at inter-municipal solutions. But here are several alternatives, and I intend to come back to Stortinget with this matter. What's important to me, and I also believe to all disabled people, is that the law takes place, that they're involved, because there's valuable competence here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e420	I want something back to the lack of work for the disabled and the disabled. What will the Government do specifically to improve the situation for these? The state is a large employer, not only in Akersgata, but also in the whole country. Is it possible for the State to have a target and a numerical fixation of how many countries as large employers can employ disabled people so that they can move from social security to pay? It must be meaningful, not least in terms of the policy pursued by the Government. So a small question: Norway is criticised by the UN Children’s Committee for the lack of policies and responses to children with disabilities. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre have proposed that we should develop concrete actions, get targeted policies and allocate sufficient resources to remedy this and improve the situation. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have chosen not to participate. What will the Council of State and the Government do to improve the conditions for children with disabilities and to be more in line with what the United Nations Children's Committee says?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e429	The Representative for Lutvold addresses an important issue, namely the employment of several disabled people. As I also said in my main post, the Government and the State are busy taking a good example in their own business and are now working on a plan in this area. Among other things, there will be: the proportion of Lukewarm taking up will be some of the things that will be assessed. It has been important for the Government and the State to set a good example in terms of inclusive working life, and to ensure that interim Objective 2 of the so-called IA Agreement is followed up, especially in relation to the disabled and for which the State itself is responsible. In the case of disabled children and, in particular, their organisation, there is extensive ongoing work. It's especially for the Ministry of Health. It is important for example: to strengthen the competence of those who are to provide guidance to parents with children with disabilities, to strengthen the provision of rehabilitation facilities for children and to have a plan and review in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e437	Right now the state is building a monumental building in Bjørvika, Oslo – a new Norwegian opera. Some time ago, I had a meeting with the Norwegian Handicap Association, where both the manager and the secretary-general made it clear that, in their view, it was such that large parts of the new opera building were not available, for example. for wheelchair users. If that's true, I'd say it's a disaster. If in 2004 we are planning and building a new, large monumental building in Norway without it being available to wheelchair users, I do not think it is too strong to use the word disaster! Will the Council of State ensure that the Opera is planned – and built – so that it is fully accessible to, among others. wheelchair users?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e446	The opera building has been mentioned. I want to be a little general about this, because the important thing about the strategy of the big message we have presented is that sectoral responsibility is at the heart of it. In other words, it is the Ministry of Culture that follows in the field of culture, that it is the Ministry of Transport that follows in the field of transport, etc., and also that users are to a far greater extent involved, that the various measures to be implemented have a proper user involvement and that all of them apply the principle of sectoral responsibility to universal design. In any case, I intend to make sure that the Minister of Culture, who is responsible for that area, is following up his sectoral responsibility and that, in this way, is also well aware of what is going on in universal design. I record that not only the opera building, but also other large buildings that are either restored or built have an improvement potential. The principle of sectoral responsibility and, in particular, the universal nature of the issue must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e453	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e458	Initially, I would like to stress that disability is largely a result of the barriers that exist in society. Knowledge of the organisation of disabled persons is also essential for those with hidden disabilities. Increasing awareness, broad mobilization and systematic work at all levels of society and administration are crucial to removing the gap between societal demands and individual assumptions. It's about real equality. The Christian People's Party believes that positive angles are crucial. We need to focus on the fact that disabled people are an important resource for society. The low level of participation of people with disabilities in the labour market is a poor social economy. We must therefore actively work for work practices, training and creating lasting and varied jobs for people with disabilities. In recent years, there has been increased attention to the lack of literacy skills, especially in schooling, and many measures have been put in place to improve the situation. However, there is a small part of this group that because of its severe dyslexia cannot acquire the writing language and thus strives throughout their lives. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to bring this group forward in order to remember that they actually have the same challenges as blind or severely impaired people in some situations. I'm glad that a collective committee is behind this. A conscious attitude and vigilance from an early stage to discover and help this group is essential to enable them to function fully, e.g. with the PC with voice command and synthetic speech. It may be necessary for them to be able to write, obtain the necessary information and work in the workplace. ‘Reading the application book’ is a good measure for reading disability, which I hope can be a lasting offer. The project is important for the large group that needs well-organised books. Audiobooks are also important to meet the different needs of people with reading disabilities. The Christian People's Party has focused on parents and families with disabled children. Information, guidance and coordination are important keywords. It is important to provide services that are coherent, coordinated and tailored to the needs of the family, giving the family an opportunity to care for the child. Families with disabled children need to get the help they need, when they need it, and get a better opportunity to live as families with children most, to have a surplus of play and association with the children, but also to social life. We who have followed disabled children and their families over the years know that too many people can be very grateful. The Christian People's Party believes it is essential that we do what is possible, in order to prevent wear on both parents and siblings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e475	Most things have probably been said in the debate, but after the speeches from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Sigbjørn Molvik, I feel a certain need to clarify something that obviously cannot have been achieved, and that is what goes on with the subsidy to the umbrella organisations and the FFO membership organisations. It's actually so that after the deal that's been at this point, the FFO gets to keep $5 million. kr as a basic grant. The remaining sum is allocated to the FFO's own membership organisations. The organisations associated with the FFO system and the organisation FFO must not reduce their total resources. It would be obtained if the original proposal of the Government had been adopted: that this would be distributed to all. That's not the case in this situation. It's okay to be clear that the FFO organisations are the ones receiving the sum that is now leaving the umbrella organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e482	The Progress Party is now trying to provide a numerical explanation of this with the allocation of funds to the organisations of the disabled. They would have to do that, but at least it is not that user involvement and user organisations' views on this matter have been taken properly as a result of the Progress Party and the government parties, in our opinion. It's also good to attach some other notes to this. I am pleased that there will be a majority in favour of the co-workers' work being explicitly funded from the organisational grant. It is important that this work can get the conditions it has had and that it can develop further. Unfortunately, the same is not the case with the 5 million. which could have been used for measures for disabled persons directed by other non-governmental organisations. We regret that this is being removed, because I think it is important that other non-governmental organisations can also facilitate measures and work for the disabled, and that this will enable one to have a broader interface and social development. So a little bit to this with the study funding. It is, in line with, among other things, The representative, Mr Molvik, said, that it is important to have a study funding for disabled people who do not impose additional financial burdens on disabled people due to long study periods and difficulties in implementing according to established criteria, as is currently the case. Therefore, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Centre have made a proposal requesting that a study funding for such students be guaranteed, so that one does not incur these additional costs related to disability. So finally a little bit about this with research, development and legislation to promote better accessibility. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee now instructs the Government to draw up an action plan to increase the accessibility of people with disabilities to transport, construction, information and other important areas of society. I also hope that a new technology can be introduced through laws and regulations, and that a designer and facilitator can facilitate the use of such technologies, for example. lifts, mini-banks, payment and ticket terminals are made available to both blind, partially sighted and hearing-impaired, possibly deaf. This is also important in relation to information provided orally at railway stations and elsewhere. So to this with research and development. I am glad that the project with the eyephone has come as far as it has, and I hope that it can be continued. Although there is a minority in the Committee that points this out, there is at least an overall committee that says that the developments we have in the mobile phone/video area are important, that this is better used as a tool for the visually impaired and hearing impaired, and that this system can be linked to the teletext centres around the country. It may be a good base for the use and dissemination of such technological innovations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e495	It was this explanation from the representative Harald T. Nesvik who made me take the floor. I believe that this explanation just illustrates my point: the representative Nesvik is now trying to explain why the Progress Party believes that it knows better than the users how to distribute the money. That's what the Progress Party would like to think. But when the point is that you want to strengthen user involvement, and then you follow it up with a practical act where you say no, a large proportion of the economy should not be directly allocated to the umbrella organisations, and no, where the FFO's membership organisations are wrong, the best thing is that a smaller proportion of the total economy is allocated through an umbrella grant, and the best thing is that each of the FFO's organisations will receive this money, the representative Nesvik cannot get away from the fact that a holding is based on a holding that we know better than the users. We know better how the FBI really should have had it than the users. That's why it's also the case that if it wasn't for that position of the Progress Party, we would have a different majority in this Chamber today. Then we had a majority who had respected user involvement in this area 100 pst. That's the responsibility of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e507	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2507]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e524	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2508]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e544	When the Stortinget in spring 2001 dealt with St.meld. No 22 for 2000-2001, Police reform 2000 – A safer society, there was broad support in the Stortingen for the reform. The aim of the reform was and is still to have a more effective fight against crime and a more visible, service-oriented and public-oriented police force. The majority thought that this should be done, it was necessary to have more districts and to allocate more responsibility to the police department in each district. Delegation of greater responsibility to each police officer was important in order to ensure more flexible organisation of the police. The district structure should be adapted to local conditions. But it may seem that the reform has become much more streamlined than what was intended. All the districts have chosen a solution with a central arrest warrant and an operating centre. In a number of districts, we are told that this works well. But from the same number of places we get the opposite signal. Predominantly large cities, such as Sandnes and Fredrikstad, without a police officer after 8 p.m. 16:00 in the afternoon. Questions can be asked whether this is a good solution and whether the reform should have been more adapted to local conditions. One of the main objectives of the reform was to get police officers ‘to the streets’. Police officers were to work less on administrative tasks. The number of annual releases following the reform of operational and public works was estimated at 400–450. Over the past year, we have received many alarming reports that the reform is not working as it was supposed to. Many local surveys tell of a reform that does not work and where there have been no more policemen in active service. Last year, the NRK conducted a survey of the country's survey officers, where 319 LEN's were asked whether the police reform had increased preparedness. Only 84 federal offices replied, and about half of them again believed that the level of preparedness was unchanged, while a quarter claimed that the level of preparedness had fallen. This study is too thin to draw any conclusions. But what is still serious is that among the public in different parts of the country, there is a reaction to the fact that it is more difficult to call on police now than it has been in the past. In rural areas, it is claimed that the rule of law is largely absent from normal working hours, and there must be a serious risk of life in the event of a call-out of blue light. Many people feel that the threshold for police intervention has increased after the reform. In several police districts, job vacancies are available because of a lack of economy, and in some districts, it is estimated to sell material to finance jobs. The elected representatives of the police are also strongly critical of the reform, perhaps not surprising. In an interview at Sunnmørsposten on 23 March 2004, the Head of the Joint Police Association at Sunnmøre, Terje Dyb, said that the police have had a lot of new tasks and that jobs are unoccupied due to poor finances. These are issues that we know well about. But in the same interview, Dyb says the following: ‘And in addition, we have not been good enough to use resources efficiently, and not good enough to follow up the reform’s intentions.’ He also claims that instead of sensible solutions, there has been a lot of power struggle and too much policy within the picture. These opinions make me ask questions about whether the reform is struggling with internal drag struggles and poor management. With regard to the economic situation of the police, it is obvious that the police are experiencing a more difficult situation now than before. In recent years, the police have been privileged and prioritised in the budgets. Unlike most other public agencies, they have released the savings knife and have been allocated considerable new resources. Last year and for the current year the situation is different. As with other departments in transition, the police must also accept a critical searchlight on the use of their resources. This does not mean that we cannot conclude with the need for more money for the police once the reform has been implemented. But with the government's eagerness for increased tax relief, the police can easily become a victim of tax relief. Phase II of police reform is due to expire in 2004. It is only after this that the full effect of the reform can be measured. The 2004 budget proposal shows that the direct gain of the reform has been 414 posts. This is reduced due to the introduction of a fifth holiday week, which corresponds to 200 years of work, and therefore takes about 200 years. half of the gain. The reform will be evaluated in 2005. However, on the basis of the constant alarming messages we are receiving, it is necessary that we are already getting a review of the reform and experience so far. It is on this basis that I address this interpellation, precisely to give the Minister of Justice the opportunity to carry out an interim evaluation of the reform and to brief the Government. In the course of the reform, the majority said clearly and unequivocally that we should continue to have a decentralised structure for the police. It was emphasised that the police should be located in at least as many places as today. The civil servants' and civil servants' organisations were to be decentralised, and the personnel were to serve where the public needs and demands the presence of the police. A decentralised police force of high local knowledge was seen as the best guarantee of good service and effective crime prevention. We are now receiving signals that in phase II of the reform, there is a centralisation of the canonical seat in many districts. The merger of lenght offices and the removal of lenght officials have been proposed. in Nordland. The working party wants to keep today's places of service. We want there to be a borrower today, it must also be a borrower in the future. In the budgetary agreement with the government parties last autumn, we had a positive impact on this. The Minister of Justice is therefore obliged to ensure that this is followed up. The Workers' Party believes it is important to maintain a position and a member of staff, because this is of great importance to people's security in the community. In addition, the mariner is an important person in many communities. He lives in the vicinity, he travels among people he has to serve, and he gets their immediate feedback. In addition, he has a completely different connection to his district than a policeman can have. On the other hand, by having a local loner, it makes the responsibility visible. The Labour Party therefore believes that there are a number of good purely police professional arguments for maintaining the workers. We believe that this can happen without significantly hampering the coordination of police administrative resources. Let it also be clear: the Labour Party believes it is absolutely essential to have a good police force, a police force that succeeds in combating crime, and which is a service body to the public, that we follow up and implement the reform. We believe that the ambitions of the reform are achievable. But it demands that the reform be adapted to local conditions and that it be actively managed by police forces. The Labour Party believes that in the final phase of the reform, it is essential that police officers use the reform’s instruments to free police from administrative and police work in order to have a more visible and more civilized police force. It is therefore important for the Minister of Justice to act as an active Minister of Justice in order to meet the objectives of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e600	The intention of the police reform was to release police resources for police operations, but it was also to analyse the police, to raise the level of competence in the police, and to ensure that the police in general met a modern crime scene with organised crime, financial crime and the crime they committed, among other things. increased pressure, occurring in the close relationships in the private sphere. The matter was advanced by the government of Stoltenberg in its time, and it has been largely my task to follow it up and implement it. The words of Mr Gjul's question to me may give the impression that the reform is not being followed up. This isn't right. The police reform is closely followed up by both the Ministry of Justice and the Police Directorate. But let me make a point here, because at the end of the article, it might seem like you don't see the role distribution now. We have a division of roles with a police directorate, which was actually carried out to provide agency management. There was disagreement about that in the Workers' Party, historically. But fortunately, the Labour Party joined it, and the fact that we got a police directorate was a pillar for us to promote a reform. The Directorate of Police means that a departmental management is in place, and that means that under that departmental management, police officers in districts were changed as a result of the proposal in the summer of 2000, who are responsible for managing it all. And then, of course, a Minister of Justice is constitutionally responsible. But I'm neither a police director nor a police officer. I do not intend to enter into that role, and I assume that the Stortinge assumption when implementing the Police Directorate and the reform was not that I should enter into that role either. In the case of the reform, no adjustments are made pending an evaluation. In most police districts, a number of adjustments and changes have been made since the reform phase I, precisely because not all procedures and arrangements were immediately in place. For example, they did. Very important experiences with the operating centres, they've taken it with them and they've learned from it. I, too, as the State Council, have recorded that there have been local questions about various aspects of police reform and the work the police are doing. To me, it's important to listen to these signals, and to my knowledge, I know that the police do too. A good example of this is an excellent post, which is very readable, in Fredrikstad Blad today, by the police officer in Eastfold, Otto Stärk. The aim of the reform is to strengthen public accessibility and operational police work. Among other things, coordination of administrative and cooperative tasks more effectively frees up time for police-trained personnel for more active and outbound service. The police reform is very close to completion, as the representative also addressed in his statement. There is still a lot of demanding organisational and efficiency work to be done. Phase II of the reform reviews the structure of the holding with a view to creating an effective organisation in accordance with the main objectives of the reform. The Directorate of Police states that the proposals for any changes are now available and will be forwarded to the Ministry with the first. Phase II work has taken a little more time than planned. This is primarily due to a thorough process by the police departments, including: the municipalities have been involved. And it has of course been right that the municipalities should be involved in this work. In this process, there are clear indications that the police service should be added to places and at times where the need for such services is greatest, and that structural changes should not be made that undermine police proximity and accessibility, as the representative Gjul also addressed in his interpellation, and that have a good coverage in the position of the judicial committee. Furthermore, both the government and the magistrate, as I have now stressed, have also established the principle of close-up police in the budgetary procedure by maintaining and managing the offices of a member of the public. This, of course, will be followed up. It is true that the police have been strengthened in recent years. The police budget – chapters 440 and 441 – had nominal growth of 28.8 p.m. from 1999 to the adopted budget for 2004. In the same period, the index of consumer prices showed an increase of 10.2 pst. The police have also received additional appropriations on several occasions. This may include, inter alia: Please mention that an additional budget of 92 million was granted. DKK for the conversion costs of police reform in the revised national budget for 2002. It is related to the fact that the State budget of the government of Stoltenberg for 2002 did not include any single means of reform other than increased ICT costs. It is also true that in recent years a significant number of posts have been allocated to the police and the county council. Both the Ministry of Justice and the Police Directorate have allocated these human resources in order to achieve an effective fight against crime and to meet the needs of the public for police and security. All aspects of the police and officers' seat have been strengthened as a result of the increase in the number of posts. Following the introduction of framework management, the police districts and special agencies have been authorised to set up their own posts within allocated budgetary frameworks. In this context, it is very important to recall that the reform was not intended to lead to an increase in operating costs, but to the contrary to freeing labour from administrative positions to operational police work. At the same time, the agency is constantly facing new challenges, especially in the area of organised crime. Then perhaps most people will think about what has now happened in Stavanger. But we don't have to go back so far to see the form of organized crime that was in speculating in making thieves who were so low in criminal reaction that you could get away with it, that's a crime that involved petty theft at the Nazi crisis, where, among other things, you could get away with it. spoke in various stores that sold perfumes, that sold textiles, etc. In fact, this led to the need for the national lawyer to go in and help coordinate the investigation. This whole picture of crime is also a challenge for the police. The fight against this type of crime, i.e. it organized in various forms, from the milder to the very rough and very serious, is both resource-intensive and complex and requires a competent and resilient police force. However, it is also a challenge for the police to strike a balance between the priorities of combating organised crime and, for example: more traditional everyday delinquency. As I could say in the spontaneous questioning yesterday: if you use Stavanger as an example, in that city you have got the heaviest and most serious of what we have seen in Norway of organized crime, while in Stavanger and in Northern Ireland you have a police force that works very closely against local authorities and conflict councils, just to make the effort that I know the members of the Justice Committee have been concerned about, namely preventing children and young people in such a way that they should not lose their foothold. Here we have a picture in the same place of the police that we have and want to continue, and of the challenges the police face, of which we have gradually seen more and more, and which have been given its most acute form in what has happened since 5 April. Police reform has changed the police district structure, and we have got new districts and district borders. It has therefore been necessary to look at the allocation of resources in the light of this. The conclusion of this work, as well as what could be a right and wise manning, will be included in the notice announced to the police in 2005. Let me illustrate a feature of the reform. Since I mentioned the police officer Otto Strong in Fredrikstad Blade today, let's take Eastfold as an example. Some would say that in some places where there was a police station, the door was closed in the afternoon. But what happens – with the police officer’s language and also with my language – is that the reform allows the door to be locked and driven out on patrol. It gives more rolling patrols than before, and it also gives greater impact. Since that police district has attracted attention – I notice it – I can mention that, for example. was a pretty powerful episode at the Hyler last weekend. Then you could gather twelve policemen and three dogs to just intervene against such a serious event. So you were able to establish strength, because when more people are out there driving, when more people are out rolling, you can also focus on them. So it's doing a good job. 65 is in custody, 38 of them are linked to border crime. This is a police district that has also had the heavy methanol case with 250 visions, that is, the case that we are all familiar with, which is a good illustration of how the crime scene that has been there is there, but also of how it develops with new challenges. At the same time, after the information I received, the district has made a significant effort to look at the burglaries of recreational boats and engines, and it is believed to have led to values for approx. Thirty million. back to the citizens. This tells of a police force that meets both what they are used to, which the public are used to, and new challenges in an exciting way, because, in order to take the case of Eastfold, they are no longer just going to look at border crime related to Halden, but they are going to see that border crime can affect a whole group and that they can see the resources in a group in context. It is, in my opinion, exciting and excellently illustrated in a debate in Fredrikstad Blade today, where the public, including the media, are invited to a substantive exchange of views on what is happening. If we look at the police, we know that the police are building up competence in the field of financial crime – we know that it affects many of the small ones in society – and there are building up competences on family violence. Police reform thus builds competence against new forms of crime, and it ensures that the police can be rolling and powerful where it is important. However, the reform has not been completed and Phase II is very important for the evaluation. I will, of course, take with me the signals it gives. I've also given a clear statement here in the past, among other things. in a reply to the representative Storberget – I think it was – that I want to make sure that audience surveys are done in all 27 police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e638	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. I fully share the opinion of the Council of State that we have a police force that is functioning in Norway today. It also shows most surveys of the public's perception of the police, that people have great confidence in it. What is dangerous about the police reform and the discussion we get in the media is that it is now expressed that the reform is functioning badly. In fact, some police districts may not have succeeded in getting the reform on track. But the problem is that this is spreading to the whole country. There is a general impression that the police reform is not working, and it has helped us to have a police force that works worse today than it did before we got the reform. What this then results in is that people get less trust in the police. People start to think that when they have had a break-in, when something serious has happened at home, they don't get a visit from the police – and you can risk people resigning. The impression must not sit down! It's incredibly important that we manage to communicate externally that we have a well-functioning police force, which is going to be even better than what it was before we started the police reform. Because that's exactly what was meant by the police reform: getting a well-functioning police force that's out there in the audience, that's meeting the audience, and that's not least more capable of fighting crime. Then you have to ask questions about – which is also referred to in my first post – that the head of the Sunnmøre Police Union believes there has been a lot of power struggle and policy related to the reform. Then it is natural to ask this question to the Minister of Justice: is one of the challenges that is now in the final phase of the police reform, just to get an even stronger direction of the reform, so that we get it all on track? The Minister of Justice also says that some adjustments have been made in the course of the process, not least in relation to the operational centres, and the Stortinget stated in its work on the reform that the organisation had to be determined according to local circumstances. However, it may appear that most districts have chosen a model with central and operating centres. Is it the Minister of Justice's view that the implementation of the reform has become too streamlined, perhaps too much uniform, and that local adaptation has not been equally applied in all districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e653	I don't think it's the creation of modern operating centres where you also have a data log that is effective, not least if you like. Takes the case of family violence, where you are dependent on this and can actually immediately go in and look at the case on the screen, which has been the challenge. I think it's been a considerable strength. The current line shape can never be in Norway, with our geography and our place of employment structure. It is not possible, nor desirable. Then we would end up in the situation that I have told us not to do, namely that the police leave a place of employment, and then the parish priest becomes the last representative of the state present. That's not the point. But the police service will vary, and it is clear that different solutions have been chosen in the police districts. There are districts where everyone has been put into the tour service, while elsewhere they have found a combination of – let's call it – the tour service, the operational service, and the old back-up service, which we know from Länsmann's offices. It is one of the important experiences that I need to take with me to see how this has turned out in different places in Norway. It's also so that local cultural relationships can play, without me trying to stay up with this. But all of us who know Norwegian politics know that it can play a role. My impression is that the operation center grip has been a correct grip. My impression has been that the police should be available and able to gather forces, is correct. But I also, of course, fully agree with the representative that it is very important to maintain the decentralised structure. In the case of the reform, the government of Stoltenberg in its time was sober, for it said in its time in the news of big business: ‘Unrealistic expectations of the positive and visible effects of the ‘nightly’ reform must not be created. The benefits of an organisational reform such as this will take time to realise.’ It's very sober, isn't it? So I won't comment on how this is handled in the meantime. As a representative of an opposition party, I actually kept to the same soberness at that time. And I mean it. I believe that the police have stood on and carried out a very important reform, the greatest reform in a hundred years. They have increased their competence. When it comes to what was said from Sunnmøre – I don't know about it – it is well known that the police have a tough and strong union. Everyone in the media knows that. Then is my dry comment on it: Do you have a cool union, which is perfectly legitimate in a democratic and free society, you have to be equally tough on the other side as well. It's part of the game rules. I guess that's what the representative asked me about. Yes, of course it has to be like this. I will never undermine a trade union's right to be tough. But if you're tough, the counterparty must also be tough. To relate it to the experience I have in my own life, I'm used to that kind of thing. I grew up with the Workers' Party in Trondheim, who looked at me and said, "Look at you, Doorum, we have the power!" I think it was clear and clear speech. I knew where the lines were, and how to take them again. Clear speech is also the starting point for resolving conflicts. My impression is that the police have cooperated, and I think there's a point in what I'm going to say here at the end. The police have really tight budgets. I have said that in the budget proposal for 2003 and for 2004, and the Labour Party has signed it in agreement with the Government de facto.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e673	This suggests that Trondheimspolitik is not a Sunday school at all. This is an incredibly important debate, mainly because we as justice politicians, and we as the country's representatives, are taking the debate into the forum where the debate is to be held, much more so than what may have been done now. We all have a responsibility for that. During the debate on the police reform, there was a representative of Dørum at that time. said: “I have a philosophy, and it is that if the chief is too far away from the Indians, there will eventually be no Indians left.” I think that's a good expression. I think that expression also touches on some of the things that people are concerned about when it comes to police reform. People are concerned with something more than just the percentage of information and the length of proceedings, which are important parameters to measure by. People are also concerned about feeling that the police have a certain proximity, and if they're not Indians and chieftains, they're at least concerned that the sheriffs are more close to the population than what you actually experience today. That's what you're going to take seriously, and I feel like everyone wants to take it seriously. The problem now is that there has been a large amount of organisational development in some police districts that have closed the police stations, among others. in very large cities like Elverum and Kongswinger. We've also heard about Fredrikstad Police Station, which closes at noon. 16, where appropriate, it shall be supplemented by car patrols outside. What if the car patrols aren't actually there? In my opinion, there is a sea between the then Minister of Justice, Hanne Harlem, said in the same debate on police reform, that ‘there must also be a police force that is even more service-oriented and public-oriented than today’, which was much of the intention of the police reform, and that, for example, is the case. Hamar Arbeiderblad wrote the other day. It was written that some nights the number of police officers in the Hedmark field has been down to two men. When one compares this with the actual situation, where police stations have been closed in quite large towns and cities, I understand that people feel insecure. I wouldn't dare to see the raped woman or the child who wants to seek help from the police, and who actually doesn't get it, and who is met by a ringing bell and referred to another place ten miles away. We can't have it that way. It is such a situation that can help to weaken the good trust that has been built up over many years with the Norwegian police, and that we are very dependent on, and that we actually need more if the police are both going to use new methods and fight very serious crime in the future. In other words, there is also a considerable responsibility for implementation, even before the evaluation comes, which I am convinced is that the Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the Directorate of Police are taking it very seriously, but which in many ways only needs to be continued. You also have to accept the signals that are now coming, both from the population and from this house, alongside the information responsibility that is, of course, there and that is significant, in order to prevent disinformation from happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e689	The task of the police is to ensure people's security and to fight and prevent crime. It is therefore essential that we have a police force that is close to the population and that is available to people who need police assistance. It's the most important thing. That is why I agree with the representative of Storberget that everything is not really just about the percentage of clarification and the length of proceedings. When the reform was adopted in Stortinget, it was with a broad majority, and there was a great deal of agreement that Police Norway could not live with the same structure that existed 100 years ago. And there have been major changes within this department in the last two years in terms of both organization and problem solving. We can't expect to see the results over the night of as big changes as those that have taken place. It's important that these changes have an opportunity to sit down and that we see results over time. Police reform is, among other things, based on a crime scene that was different than it is today, and we can't compare with the situation just a few years ago. The Norwegian police must be equipped to face the heavy, organised crime and the more traditional crime of winning and violence. The representative, Gjul, questions whether the reform is not working because of internal drag struggles and mismanagement. Based on media redundancies, we hear almost every day about the poor budgetary situation and that the police have no opportunity to take responsibility for the tasks they have. As representatives of the Judicial Committee, we can then wonder if it was right to implement the reform. It may be, as the representative Gjul says, that there are large internal draw matches and poor management some places. But when we travel around the police districts in Norway, we see incredibly good police work. And I'm at least very proud of the Norwegian police officers and women carrying out the prevention and combating of crime every day. But I also experience seeing a lot of childhood diseases. We saw that quite early. And I think it's important that we take it with us when the Storting evaluates the reform, that we go into the actual situation and look at what we have to change, and what does not work out in relation to what you wanted, and that you go honestly and honestly into that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e705	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very important topic, and I would like to join those who have said in the past that there is an absolute need to discuss this, not least with the background of the media that has been going on, and the feedback that you receive as a justice policy and as a politician in general. That the intention of the reform was good is well beyond doubt. More accessible police, more visible police, more publicity – and in that part there is also service-friendliness – should be an absolute requirement. So the intention was good. What is a paradox today is that the descriptions of the media come along, and single officials come along, are completely different. There are descriptions that there is a lack of opportunity to get help outside of normal working hours, one has raised the threshold to some extent in order to actually be able to provide assistance, but has raised to those degrees the threshold of what was service duty before, that it can no longer be done. Even districts that assess the sale of materials do not – I think – necessarily finance the number of job homes, but simply because you do not see yourself able to bear the operating costs of this. Then, in my opinion, there is a pressing need to increase the availability of resources to the police. I think it's a paradox when I hear the Council's description of reality, in relation to the reality I'm otherwise getting feedback about. Then I wonder if it's the way the government council when he's standing and telling the Storting about what's facts, taking away from what the police give feedback about, or they don't even know what they're talking about. It's a paradox for me, and I hope and assume that the Council of State is aware of what attitudes he shows outwards by signaling something that goes beyond what the police themselves actually experience. So I think the Storting has to go by itself and take the consequences of what we're actually doing. When we come up with ever new, creative things that we want the police to do, without funding them, and say that you have to prioritise locally, then it becomes inconsistent when we go out afterwards and ask questions as to why they don't do what we've asked them to do. Then that criticism fell on the rock floor they luxury at my discretion. When Stortinget asks for something, Stortinget must also fund it. I'm not going to go so far that in some way I'm slaughtering the police reform so far, but that the feedback we're getting now is to reflect, must be raised beyond doubt. I think, among other things, there is a need for further strengthening of resources, while continuing to ask questions about how we do things. And that's another paradox, and that's that the police law's intention and design is very clear on what we have to do to the police and what the police are going to do. And if they're going to be able to fulfill these, we have to be silent with resources. If not, we are unreasonable. Predictability shall apply both to the audience and to those who are going to do the job on our behalf. If not, the system is unworthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e720	SV believes it is too early to conclude now on how this reform works. The signals we receive in the Justice Committee are often contradictory and difficult to deal with. This is natural, but the problem is that there are often extremely big disagreements about what really is reality. SV believes there is reason to recall the minority warning from Innst. S. No 241 for 2000-2001 on police reform. That's where the minority says it's not. ‘combination of police districts which provide more police officers in the street, as appropriate and as easily as possible. If such a purpose is to be achieved, even on the basis of the number estimated by the Government, it is another instrument that is necessary and overriding: that such service becomes an attractive career path with status and good pay conditions.» Otherwise, in the minority, we also went into eight more police districts than the majority did. The representative, Gjul, says that the Joint League of Police is strongly critical of the reform. This isn't necessarily right. The Police Union Centrally and most I have spoken to by local trustees, warn against concluding now. They do not want to discredit the police reform already, by blaming all the errors in the reform. SV will generally warn against excessive belief in reorganisation and reform as a recipe for success in this work. A recent research report, among other things, shows that reorganization can create dissatisfaction and lead to medical notifications, which the Workers' Party took on a great responsibility for in the Newspaper of March. So we have to be careful with too big a revolution, especially close to each other. SV also believes that it was unwise that the report from Fürst and Höverstad came in the middle of the implementation of the reform. This created unnecessary uncertainty. SV looks forward to the evaluation of the police reform and the forthcoming discussion on it. Hopefully, there's some more answers to what's going to be important in the future. In any case, we will continue to emphasise that the police are to be available, that is to be service-oriented, that is to be highly qualified, and that is to be representative. Attention shall also be paid to the well-being and responsiveness of the police's own organisations. Rogaland's research has shown that we have a way to go in this way, especially in the case of employee interviews. SV will also emphasise that the police should have good knowledge of the communities in which they live, that they should cooperate with and take responsibility for the environment. Crime prevention should permeate all thinking in the municipalities, for example. in the case of spatial planning. For SV, it is also important that all police districts have full-time family violence coordinators. It probably means that we have to give something more money. We also want better dissemination of good experience, for example. in the case of decentralised ecosystems. For us, it is important that the police cooperate well internationally, especially as regards organised crime and the threat of terrorism. Finally, I would like to stress that crime cannot be combated by the police alone. The police are now aware of this. I would therefore like to commend the Joint Alliance of Police for their new action plan, including: Rehabilitation of drug addicts is an important part.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e744	The aim of the police reform was and is an audience-oriented, visible and effective police force. However, feedback from policemen, local politicians and the public suggests that the targets that motivated the Storting to adopt the reform have not been met in the near future. There are reports of inaccessibility, bureaucracy and weird police priorities. More people feel that the police are no longer protecting against everyday crime, and the frustrations in the department are obvious. I share the concern of the representative, Mr Gjul, for the implementation of the police reform. But there is reason to recall that the Workers' Party was precisely the architect of the reform and has contributed significantly to creating expectations of rapid results. It is a fact that it takes time for the effects of administrative reforms to be made clear. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that the police's resource situation per year. Today is a hard day. We want to work for increased resources for the police. But let it be clear: we expect the police to also contribute in a creative and proactive way to make better use of resources. From 1999 until the current year’s budget, the police have received a nominal budget increase of 28.8 p.m. Police have appeared as winners in several budgets. However, the demand for increased resources has never ceased to exist. I allow myself to point out that the police reform has led to significant wage increases for groups within the police force. It was never the intention of the Storting that this would be the result of the reform. We want more police services, not fewer and more expensive services. The fact that this may seem to have been the result shows that police action in particular requires leadership competence. It is important for the Christian People's Party to state that we have a smooth police force in Norway. At the same time, we must recognise that the agency faces structural challenges. This is primarily the responsibility of the police management. The police reform was supposed to give us about 400 new posts for police operations. The introduction of the fifth holiday week reduced this reorganisation gain by half. The result of the reform is today an increase of approximately. 200 posts for police operations. Interpellant believes that there is a need for action to ensure the implementation of the intention of police reform. The Christian People's Party believes that we still have to let the police act work on the implementation of the reform, and that an evaluation should take place next year. The constitutional responsibility for achieving the objectives of police reform lies with the Minister of Justice. But the actual responsibility lies with the individual head of the police. I also allow myself to point out that the Directorate of Police has a significant responsibility for administration. The evaluation of the reform will show whether the directorate plays the intended role. I look forward to this evaluation with excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e764	Police reform involves reallocation of resources within the establishment. The objective of the reform has been to increase the emphasis on police operational work and to increase the provision of services. The 2004 budget papers show that phase one of the reform involves the transfer of 400 annual works to this type of work. That effect is partly eaten up by the fact that you then got an extra holiday week. Overall, police work has not been added to increased resources from 2003 to 2004. I have to say that the merger of posts as a result of the reform has been met with reactions from the audience in several places. A number of rapporteurs with very different party affiliations have committed themselves in favour of their communities. Even I know the conditions best in my home environment on the North Jären, where the merger of two police districts has resulted in the police station in Sandnes being unattended after 1 p.m. 18 on weekdays and uncoped on weekends. Here I owe it to you to note that Sandnes is the eighth largest city in the country, with 55,000 inhabitants. It may be said that the office is maintained, but it is not open when the audience might expect it to be open. I don't want to criticise the competent police chief for his priorities, I think a large part of this is driven by resource scarcity. It's just that there are police cars in the area, but there's no place for the audience to go. It is no secret that the Central Party has been skeptical of the centralisation resulting from the reform. Of course, an effort must be made to ensure the most effective organisation of police work, but the police are more than any other body depending on public confidence. Effectiveness is one factor, but it is also important that citizens feel secure and that there is a certain proximity to each place of work. I see it as the broad layer in my community, the public in general, is very sceptical of the consequences described here. I also think one should be aware that police service is historically part of the state's basic offer, the service that one expects. The inhabitants of larger cities have a expectation that there is a place of employment to which you can turn, even in the evening and not least on weekends. I think any elected people and also the Council of State are wise to take these expectations seriously. Finally, it is the political arena, the government and the magnificence that are responsible for the service provision to be offered. It is possible that a person may have to wait with a full evaluation until 2005, but the price may still be adjusted before that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e777	We should not underestimate that large shifts in large levels are demanding, and extra demanding in schools where organisational changes do not happen so often. We should also have the ability to distinguish real criticism from internal policies and the fight against migration in a changing phase. Nor should we ignore the fact that we can overestimate how quickly the effect of changes comes. However, as others have pointed out, reports of the situation are so alarming in many places that there is cause for concern as to whether there is a good enough grip on the implementation of the reform. In Fredrikstad, which is the country's sixth most populous city, and in most other Eastern towns, the police guard has been closed at night and on weekends after the police officer got office in Sarpsborg. Both in Fredrikstad and in Moss, there are two and a half positions unoccupied due to lack of money. In Fredrikstad it is said that the summer watch list is set up with one third of the number of posts you had in the summer ten years ago, there is only one police officer on duty in other cities of Eastfold. In the summer, the police boat will be at the dock, because it is necessary to save the 300,000 kroner it will cost to have it in active service. There is a lot of boat traffic in the Østfold archipelago during the summer, and it is possible that some of these will rejoice that the police boat is not out. Close police force is going to give more people out in patrol,' said the Minister of Justice. There are probably a lot of places, but last Saturday the manager of a large free market in Old Town in Fredrikstad had problems with three men who plagued both sellers and customers, and who eventually threatened him with a screwdriver while they tried to steal his car. The police answering point was notified twice, but only informed that there was no one present that could move out. Experienced policemen tell the newspapers that it would never have happened before. Now, fortunately, it's not that only this kind of negative impact is the picture after the reorganisation that has taken place, as the Minister of Justice pointed out in his statement. But is not the Minister of Justice concerned that these examples, of which there are many, show that one of the main objectives of the reform may be missing, namely a police that is more accessible to people, who are present and able to intervene when needed? It must be possible for the Council of State to go into it, not as a police director or chief of police, but as a Council of State, and I had almost said chief of command, and to ensure that the reform contributes to the achievement of these objectives. For this situation is now rocking the security of people, and by people's confidence that the police can play their part. The council said in his speech that he thought much of the reform was on a good track. I would ask him to clarify whether he believes it is on such a good track that it is not necessary to intervene to be sure that all the objectives of the reform are achieved. In case, if the answer to that is yes, are the resources too scarce, and will anything be proposed in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e788	The aim of the police reform, with the Labour Party as an avid supporter, was, as has been said, among other things. a more visible and effective police force. The intention of the police reform was correct, but some administratively unsolved tasks remain. There are three factors that are crucial to the fight against crime. Firstly, we need to recognise that the crime scene has changed dramatically in recent years: more brutal everyday crime, more organised crime, crime managed through multinational networks that move constantly depending on where they can operate in peace, more financial crime such as corruption and money laundering, among other things. from the sale of drugs, extensive trafficking in human beings by children and women to the western prostitution environment, and in recent years the fight against terrorism. Majority politicians have prioritised these tasks and informed the police. Then it sounds amazing that the Workers' Party now, as they are also budgetary partners with the government parties, indirectly fails to take over this reality. The second point that is important in the assessment of the crime scene is that we have to recognise that not all police districts have adequate management and competence. As early as January or February, some police officers began to complain about their need for budgets, either on the basis of realities or as an attempt to be in line only when funds are next distributed. Any budget deficits in the police must not be used as an argument for the failure of the police reform. Police reform has succeeded in improving the use of resources internally in the police — more money has been left. Flexibility has increased in terms of re-smoking and better use of crews — depending on good management. Where overtime and extra crews have been used in the old police districts, crews can be transferred internally in the police district without overtime. This is a direct consequence of police reform. The third important factor in the fight against crime is that the resources and resources are used where crime is located and not where it was historically located. The report from Fürst and Höverstad takes stock of the resource situation on the basis of objective criteria and reveals nothing other than the fact that there is a significant difference between police districts and police districts in terms of resource needs on the basis of objective criteria. For example, Eastfold lacks police district resources in relation to the tasks and criteria laid down, such as major traffic problems related to border traffic, high population concentration and increasing cross-border crime, which often result in major and heavy cases for the judiciary with mass preparation for police lawyers. These objective criteria are set to reveal how the shoe prints in relation to a lack of resources in the police. Because it can't be that everything we did 30 years ago is just going to continue into the future. It has to be that we adjust the resource supply where the problems are actually, and where the money and funds will have the highest rate of exploitation in relation to the fight against crime. So the problem with the police reform, as the representative Gjul addresses, is three-thirds. Good management is very important. I believe that it may have been underestimated so far in the process that you have not been good enough in this respect. Similarly, you place the resources where they are actually needed, and not where they were needed some years back.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e801	I think this has been a very inspiring and good debate, with very many good and constructive contributions. I just want to signal that from the Labour Party we are going to follow the further development of the reform with the Argus eyes. We're very concerned that we're going to succeed. We look at the success of the police reform as absolutely essential in order for us to have a police force in the future that is good at combating the crime and the challenges in that area. In the debate about the police reform, I call for a clearer voice from Norway-Political Affairs. It is often felt that when individual voices are expressed with their opinions in the districts, they become undisputed in many ways, and there can often be a false impression of the situation. And then we're not going to forget another thing, and it's that we have to see the police in the context of the rest of the criminal chain, and from the Labour Party we've been very concerned about the problems we have in criminal matters. To a large extent, we need to prevent the police from driving around the country and the beach in order to provide maintenance facilities. It's using the police today too much resources. There's a lot of money and a lot of staffing in that particular area. If we are able to solve the problems in, in particular, criminal matters, it will also help the police to get more resources at their disposal. After the debate today and what we have seen recently, I am left with the impression that one of the areas where it may be necessary to adjust the reform is the medium-sized cities. Fredrikstad and Sandnes have been mentioned here today, two cities that do not have police officers after 1 p.m. 16 in the usual days, and has no watch in the evening on the weekends. In such medium-sized cities, it appears that they have received worse coverage than they had in the past. So all the way to the end. The Council of State is responsible for the implementation of the reform to the Police Directorate, which is responsible for the establishment. But we should not forget that the Minister of Justice has a clear political responsibility, and that the Stortinge only knows the Council of State. We cannot begin to ask the police director what are the problems of the reform, and challenge her on this. We can only put the Council of State in charge and challenge the Council of State on what is necessary. In the budget and in the context of budgetary management signals, the Council of State has the power to manage the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e814	Of course, as the Council of State, I have responsibility, and of course it is I know the Storting. But it is also true that the Norwegian police before the police reform did not have a police directorate. There was a level control to the degrees in detail to the department. We've also had some criticisms that maybe we haven't been good enough to get it into life, that cultures have to go into. Police reform is the change that is taking place locally in police districts, even more locally in some service locations. At the same time, there is a new division of roles between departments and police and police officers. All of these cultures are going to work. In this context, I am proud to say that my impression is that the police organizations, the Joint Police Association and the police management have been fully in agreement on the reform, and they think it is important. Then, as the Council of State, I have said that the budget we had for 2003, and what we have for 2004, is tight. There is no one who has registered the social debate, who has been able to avoid noticing that the Police Joint Union also believes that more money is needed. With regard to this room, there has been an agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party regarding the money that has been spent on the police for the current year. In 2003, the year in which the Progress Party made a settlement with the government parties, prioritizing within a framework of about $5 billion, you put 46 million at the top. To the police. So we're operating on about the same framework. So it's like the police have changed the challenges of a changed crime scene. What I took up in my post was not that anyone could do anything better, but I was proud of the work that is good, and it does a lot of good work. I'm proud that people are doing a good job, and I think it's necessary that it should come out. I'm proud of people who are proud to do a good job. So I think it's part of an honest debate that you say you could actually do something more if the situation had been different. It is part of an open social debate that takes place in Norwegian communities, and of course it is to be brought into the main hall, as has been done in today's inter-pelling debate. In terms of evaluation, it is obvious that when we evaluate, it is to learn and, where appropriate, to adjust where necessary. For my part, I have underlined two things that go especially on my role as the Council of State in addition to the constitutional and being responsible for the police as a whole, namely that I should also listen to what Norwegian citizens have to say. That's why I've asked the Police Directorate to conduct police reputational studies in all 27 police districts. I have also asked the Directorate of Police to do what I know is happening in many places: meet local elected representatives, i.e. rapporteurs, and find out what the experience is, what you can take with you to learn. When you do these big grips, you get a lot of things very good. Something you can do better, and then you'll be left with something you can probably say was not as good as it should be. I have that humility for this reform. But I believe it was important and correct. Then I chose not to fight back in the number of police districts when I became the Council of State. I chose to carry out what was said there, because I believe that the Norwegian police then served to move on with the reform. I am proud that the police have increased their competence against organized crime, that they are improving it against financial crime, that they are improving it, as they have done in Oslo Centre, against handkerchiefs, that they are taking family violence seriously, and that they are working very well. Of course, I must be allowed to express that pride on behalf of people who have much greater confidence than all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e829	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e840	We should then be ready to go to voting about the matters that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e847	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Gunn Olsen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 6, by Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 7 by Mr Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8, from Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 6, by the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal by the proposers. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals for amendments to the rules on travel at work and for training so that persons who otherwise fulfil the requirements for such travel may benefit from the scheme even if there is no collective offer on the route in question.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of independent and independent supervision, the task of which is to oversee and enforce the social rights of people with disabilities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e882	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up, in the context of the submission of the State budget for 2005, a contingency plan for appropriations for co-operation and to carry out, in cooperation with the organisations of disabled persons, an assessment of the best use of the appropriations for co-operation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e896	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to continue the current financing scheme for the umbrella organisations of disabled people’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue today’s scheme to enable part of the grant to be used by disabled people’s organisations for action by other non-governmental organisations.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the granting of concessions in the transport sector requires accessibility for disabled persons.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up concrete and targeted measures and to allocate sufficient budgetary resources to follow up the criticism of the UN Children’s Committee on Services for Children with Disabilities’.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the right to reimbursement for additional costs for telephone use for the blind and partially sighted on the basis of the possibility of reimbursement of technical aids for this purpose and to provide the result of the review of the State budget for 2005.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e936	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e975	Here the President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e1006	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr André Kvakkestad, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 25 March 2004: ‘The decision asks the Government not to increase the applicant’s liability for regulatory changes at this stage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-22.ana.ud941e1021	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
