ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e63	The representatives Hallgeir H. Langeland and Siri A. Meling, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning sitting - if necessary - continue beyond the time of regulation. 15 to the current map has been completed. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e78	At the start of the meeting today, we have to take up some of the things that fell out of voting yesterday. During the examination of case No. 1, Inn. S. No 234, from the Defence Committee on the further modernisation of Defence in the period 2005-2008, there was a slight misunderstanding during voting. The Committee's position under V and VI was not contested. The President will therefore take the two Roman numerals up to voting now. For their information it is assumed that they will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e111	Then we should have taken the decisions that were not taken yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e125	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3167]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e141	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3167]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e157	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e173	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e189	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e205	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e216	First, I would like to address the proposals that the Workers' Party has been promoting together with other parties in the vote. The Financial Committee has now completed its work on the tax communication and there are still a number of important issues that have not been resolved. There is therefore considerable uncertainty about what tomorrow’s tax system will look like. This is very unfortunate, especially when we know that stability and predictability are among the things that many consider most important in the tax system. However, it cannot surprise the Government that it has been impossible to obtain broad support for the main content of the message. The EESC's mandate was to propose changes to the tax system that would provide DKK 10 billion in tax relief. The tax proposals contained in the tax communication represent a tax relief of about DKK 12 billion. Therefore, the starting point for the tax communication was not to propose a conversion that could receive the widest possible support, but to comply with the Sem declaration of another DKK 12 billion in tax relief, in addition to the approximately DKK 20 billion that the Government has already given. However, there is a majority in one important point, and that is that there should be tax on share income. The so-called shareholder model implies that share income, i.e. dividends on shares and gains on the sale of shares, is taxed as general income. The working party introduced dividend tax of 11 pst. in 2000 through a settlement with the centre parties, but this was removed by the Bondevik government in 2001. There are several reasons why the Workers' Party has wanted to reintroduce taxes on dividends. First of all, this treasure has a social profile. In particular, it is those with large incomes and assets that also have large equity incomes. Dividend taxes will contribute to a fairer tax because labour income and capital income will be taxed more equally. The large difference in the tax rate on labour and capital is one of the major weaknesses of the current tax system. Furthermore, the shareholder model makes it possible to abolish the share model for a limited liability company. The introduction of the shareholder model also means that we are moving closer to the tax systems internationally. This is an advantage, because today's rules - which provide for tax compensation on dividends from Norwegian companies, but not from foreign companies - are likely to be contrary to EEA rules. The Committee calls on the Government to assess in particular the impact on basic fund evidence’s position on the introduction of the shareholder model and, if necessary, to propose measures to ensure that the basic fund certificate will continue to be a real alternative as funding form for the savings banks. The Government proposes that the protection model replace the sharing model for the self-employed, i.e. participating companies and individual enterprises. This is a model that, unlike the shareholder model, has not been on a broad consultation and was not recommended by the Skauge Committee. Consultations within the Committee have indicated that the model will result in a strong tax consolidation for small companies, and that this could have negative consequences, inter alia. for innovation and entrepreneurial activity. Many have also suggested that these companies should be taxed according to the same model as the limited companies, i.e. by a withdrawal model. This is the background for a majority of the Committee, including government parties, to request the Government to investigate the possibility of introducing a tax-reduction model for participating companies and individual enterprises. Where this is not possible, it must be considered whether adjustments should be made to the protection model. Until a solution is found, the sharing model must be continued for personal traders, if necessary in parallel with the shareholder model for a limited liability company. The Government proposes that dividends and gains on shares in the corporate sector should not be taxed nor that tax deductions should be made for losses on the sale of shares between companies. The Committee agrees that chain taxation can have many adverse consequences and that such taxation should be avoided. However, the Communication points out that this model can open up a number of tax-reduction adjustments. The members of the Committee, with the exception of the representatives of the Government Parties, are unable to decide on the proposed exemption model until there is a detailed assessment of how undesirable adaptations can be prevented. With regard to the other proposals in the Communication, such as lower top taxes, the liquidation of property taxes and the removal of housing taxes, the Government has not received a majority in the Committee for any of them. The Labour Party has two main objections to the tax notification. First of all, they add up to a tax relief of NOK 12 billion. Such tax relief will have to be at the expense of important welfare schemes such as pensions, school and health. This is totally unacceptable for the Workers' Party. The proposal must also be seen in the light of the economic development we are experiencing, with strong growth in private consumption. In that case, it is not tax relief for the richest that should be given priority, but good Community solutions. The second main objection of the Workers' Party is linked to the social profile of the proposal. Estimates show that the reform sketch lower peak taxes, dividend taxes and the removal of taxes on wealth and housing provides persons with income above 750000 kroner with an average tax relief of more than 36000 kroner. A person with income between 400000 and 450000 will receive NOK 12000 less in tax, while one with income between 100000 and 150000 will receive DKK 1500 in tax relief. The working party believes that a major task for the tax system is to redistribute and balance income and wealth. We don't want this property of today's tax system to be weakened, as the government says. The government is in favour of increasing the minimum deduction, claiming that this gives the reform a social profile. I refer to the answer to question No. 59 from the Centre Party, where it is stated that the proposals for changes to the deduction structure of the reform sketch mean that everyone with incomes above NOK 235000 receives a tax relief of NOK 3500. For those with lower incomes, the tax relief is less, and persons with an employee income of SEK 75 000 actually receive a large tax boost. It's hard to see the social profile of this. As the bottom line increases, the government says it will "clean up" in the deduction structure. This cannot be understood otherwise than by removing a number of deductions. Common to most deductions is that winding-up means relatively little to the average, but may have a significant impact on those who lose their deductions. However, the government does not dare to be specific about the deductions that are to be removed, so that it is then impossible to take any debate on this at this time. The working party also believes that there should be scope for an increase in the minimum deduction, but that this must be done by redistribution of the tax burden and without overall large tax relief. The working party is not satisfied with the way in which the Government has dealt with the property and housing tax in the notification. The shadow committee was concerned that property taxes, housing taxes and property taxes were to be seen in a total context, and the sample proposed to abolish the property tax while increasing the benefit tax on owner-occupied dwellings and cabins. If this was not desirable, the Skauge Committee considered that a mandatory property tax should be imposed. According to the sample, such a conversion would bring the Norwegian tax system more into line with other OECD countries. It would also help to reduce today's strong incentives to place capital in expensive dwellings and cabins instead of in activities that can contribute to job creation and value creation. The Workers' Party, together with the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, has therefore asked the Government to return to the Stortinget with an overall review of the property tax, the benefit tax on the owner-occupancy and property tax, and that it be assessed in a total context. This investigation must also include the basis for the taxation of housing taxes. The government announces in the notification that it will take a closer look at an extension of the document fee to include residence and share apartments. The Labour Party has strongly opposed this, and we are pleased to note that a majority of the committee, all except the members of the government parties, oppose the proposal. The government's reform plan is facing an uncertain future. The government has to thank itself for that. In the proposal presented, the main aim has been to comply with the Sem Declaration, not to achieve a broad tax settlement. It has been proposed that the changes be phased in over three years. This is a recipe for creating uncertainty and instability. The Financial Policy Spokesman of the Right, Jan Tore Sanner, has, like the Minister of Finance, stated that it is the voters who, at the 2005 elections, will decide what the tax system will be like. We in the Labour Party have absolutely nothing against that. For the Workers' Party, strengthening the welfare society is more important than providing tax relief to the richest. We cannot support a reform that will go beyond important areas, such as school, health and our future pension system. Eirin Faldet had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e258	The representative of Tore Nordtun has taken up the proposals he referred to initially. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e263	The representative of Nordtun claims that there is uncertainty about the implementation of the tax reform. No - the tax reform can be implemented as planned. At no significant point does the Storting turn the thumb down for the Government's proposal. The uncertainty surrounding the reform is linked to the elections next year. The Socialists, with the Labour Party and their two socialist comrades, are winning the taxes. If the Centre/Right-Registration continues, the Lower Tax Programme will be implemented both for persons and for business. In the suspension, the Workers' Party proposes that the taxes on housing, property and property be assessed. That's what the Skauge committee did. The government has done that. And we've concluded that property taxes are going to go away to strengthen private ownership, housing taxes are going to go away, and property taxes are still going to be a voluntary municipal tax. What does the Workers' Party mean? Will the Workers' Party keep the wealth tax? Will the Workers' Party increase the housing tax? Does the Workers' Party want a State property tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e272	Jan Tore Sanner asked, yes, he did not ask, but he found that there was no uncertainty in the timing of the implementation of the reform or anything. I mean to think that Jan Tore Sanner has read the setting, I'm not in doubt about that, but there's only one point in my opinion where the government has a certain lead in moving forward, and that's on the shareholder model. The other places have suffered defeat everywhere, for it is the Sem declaration that is being passed on here. As far as the Workers' Party is concerned, we have said that we want a proven neutral system. Just to take the property tax: to remove it, by $8 billion in the reduction in public and community income, it has a counterpart. It has a counter-post on the community economy side, on the social and health side, on the school side. But you don't say one word about where to take this money from. It's totally irresponsible. When, in addition, we have three budgetary negotiations and one choice to be made before this reform is to see the light of day - yes, I have to ask again: what is the result?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e277	Tax is a very important framework condition. Now the representative Tore Nordtun has stated that the Labour Party does not want to give tax relief; instead, they want to redistribute a portion. This will result in some people getting tax tightening. In recent years, we have seen an increasing tendency for large Norwegian enterprises to establish themselves abroad, making their initial investments out of the country, because there are overall better framework conditions in those countries than there are in Norway. This has resulted in a higher level of unemployment in Norway. My question to the representative of Nordtun is: Does the Labour Party not believe that if we increase the tax in important areas, will this lead to an accelerating trend towards Norwegian companies flagging out and establishing themselves abroad, with the effect that we get increasing unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e284	Gardensets address, I think, one of the biggest challenges we have with the tax system in Norway, namely where our competitors are with their tax systems. If we look at statistics, we're neither u-country nor anything else in terms of tax systems, we're in the middle of the tree overall, on the OECD average. Now leave it. But our tax system must always match what's happening around us, so that we don't get out of competition. That's our big challenge. When it comes to what we're going to do in the future, I said in my main post that we're going in for a proven neutral system. In terms of our case of property taxes, housing taxes and property taxes, we will see this in a total context. Various expert reports have repeatedly said that our property tax system is useless. We know that other nations are heading towards getting more taxes on real estate that cannot be moved out of the country. Then we have to have a real tax system and get it in place, so that we can get more justice in the distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e293	SV and the Working Party have agreed on several important things in the setting. This is not least the desire to remove the sharing model and the desire to introduce dividend tax, and a common position to reject the government's non-social tax relief proposals. However, there are also some points where we have separated layers, and there is one in particular that has surprised us. Recently, it has been found that in practice in Norway, the subsidiaries of a number of large multinational companies are not taxed at all. Large groups tax zero of their profits in Norway by moving parts of the surplus abroad through so-called internal pricing systems. A researcher at the BI has now presented a report in the morning paper today that estimates the level of domestic pricing only in small and medium-sized foreign-owned enterprises to several hundred million dollars in lost tax revenue each year, as well as that of course this is a major disadvantage for Norwegian companies competing with these. [[The President clubs.]] We are amazed that the Workers' Party has not joined our remark asking the Government to raise this issue in the proposition. Does this mean that the Labour Party no longer thinks this is a problem, or does it mean that it will be put on the agenda in a different context?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e304	It might be a good thing that the President's office reminds us that a line is up to 1 minute, and the answers should also be up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e307	The light box takes up a big international problem here. Because it is an international problem, and not least it is a problem in the larger countries, especially in the United States. In the United States, they've been pretty tough on their big corporations in terms of internal pricing. SV has taken up an important point there. In what they write in their comment, there are pretty strong statements. I think we have to be a little bit more thorough, but I think I can promise on behalf of the Workers' Party that we will follow up. That piece also needs to be followed up internationally to get these things in place. We're going to do that, and I also feel sure that the tax system here needs to be corrected at this point. We also have to get international agreements that match this, so that we can get control of the tax evasions that are partly out and going.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e315	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e318	When the report on the previous tax reform was discussed in Stortinget, many thought that a plan was nearing eternity. However, increases in marginal taxation and pressure against the sharing model gave rise to a new debate. This debate was dramatically reversed when, in 2000, the Stoltenberg government proposed dividend tax as the first step in a change in the tax system. This change was later announced in the budget, and it is historically curative in relation to today's debate to read that at that time it was thought that it was necessary to significantly reduce the tax rates on earnings. Later, the desire for tax reform in the budgetary agreement with the central parties continued, with tax increases in particular, and the Co-operation Government then took over the staf stick for tax reform. It is therefore a broad desire to have a tax reform, but from the Right and this government, in combination with tax relief, not increases, as it did in 1992. In our work on this position, the overall objective has been to take care of the good development we now have in the Norwegian economy. We can do this by creating an even better and fairer tax system. Improvements must be combined with a reduced level of taxation, which will promote Norwegian value creation, motivate increased private Norwegian ownership and stimulate employment. Improvements to the tax system combined with tax relief are key instruments of economic policy. Therefore, the Government also proposes that the reform be combined with an additional DKK 12 billion in tax relief, in addition to the DKK 20 billion that the Government has already implemented. This shift in tax levels, from the steady increases in labour party governments, has undoubtedly been some of the reasons why Norwegian economy now has a larger growth and Norwegian business life more optimistic than it has been for a long time. The reform proposal has five main elements: One element is increased equal treatment of labour and capital income by significantly reducing marginal taxes and by the liquidation and replacement of the split model by high-return tax for personal shareholders through the shareholder model and through the protection model for personal corporations. The risk-free return will be shielded from taxation in both models. In the course of the suspension process, the government has agreed to set the risk-free interest rate in the shareholder model at the interest rate of five-year government bonds, while a risk premium is proposed for the protection model. The second main element of the suspension is to build on the principles of the 1992 tax reform, with equal treatment, broad tax bases, low rates and neutrality. It should be mentioned that there is a majority to continue 28 pst. tax on company profits, as the tax reform in 1992 provided. This is a very important stabilising element. A third main element is the relationship to the increased internationalisation of Norwegian business. Extension of 28 pst. corporation tax is important here, together with the exemption model it provides for limited liability companies, which do not tax dividends and gains on shares between companies. In this way chain taxation is avoided, and capital mobility is increased. When implementing the shareholder model, shielding model and exemption model, the sharing model may also be discontinued, together with the RISK and compensation system. This would bring the Norwegian tax system and the Norwegian dividend system into line with the EEA Agreement rules in this area. Fourth, it is necessary to improve the conditions for Norwegian ownership by reducing and subsequently abolishing the special Norwegian property tax, which inhibits private Norwegian ownership, private Norwegian savings and Norwegian owners, and which may cause tax-motivated Norwegian relocation. It is therefore very good news for both small and large Norwegian capitalists that the tax on wealth is being reduced for the purpose of liquidation. This is also a prerequisite for the other reform changes and model choices. As a final element, clean-up and simplification are an important part of the reform. For business, the phasing-out of the sharing model and the RISK and remuneration system will be a very important simplification. This is made possible by a comprehensive reform that introduces the model choices I have mentioned before, along with a reduction in peak rates. It is essential that all the main elements are implemented, in order to achieve a levelling-out for simplification. Within the amortization schemes, the Government also aims at a significant clean-up that will provide major simplifications. It is gratifying that the Committee has reached broad agreement on the challenges and principles underlying the reform proposal. A majority join the shareholder model, which is one of the main elements of the proposal. A majority have also given a clear signal for further work on the protection model, even if the Government wants to assess the possibility of an exit-based scheme for personal business. There is also a majority of the exemption method for taxation of share income between companies, a majority who, in the same way as the Government itself, want to consider restrictions on the possibility of adjustment in the exemption method. That is why there is a high degree of support for the main system choices. Perhaps the most important thing is that during the examination in the Committee, no competing alternatives have been introduced to the models and overall plan submitted by the Government and which will now be further worked on. The only thing that has been launched is a strong rhetoric about individual details in individual groups' taxation and deductions. Even the offensive tax party The Progress Party has not come up with any alternative comprehensive solutions. The lot proposed its own alternative tax model for a long time. It never came, and it is carefully reported as an alternative system to point out that flat tax is a good approach to the challenge of integrating personal and corporate taxation. However, little is said about the real problem of flat tax, which is such a significant proceeds for the state that even the Progress Party may not dare to propose it. The lack of alternatives is not so much to build on as a foundation for the nation's value creation and predictability of business. The Workers’ Party has endorsed parts of the reform’s system changes, but their rhetoric has focused on the strong resistance they have to a fairer taxation of people’s earnings in relation to taxation of capital income, by not reducing top taxes, by telling them what strong opponents they are of improving the access to Norwegian ownership of capital by reducing taxes on wealth, or on the strong opponents they are of making it more reasonable for people to live, and, therefore, by removing the benefit tax on ordinary dwellings. In working on this position, it has been our aim to take care of the good development we see in the economy. The value creation in Norwegian business and working life has been our focus. The reform will further internationalise Norwegian industry in terms of its competitiveness at tax level and in terms of its tax structure. You have to be politically courageous in tax matters and in system changes, because there could always be examples of someone getting better or worse out than others. This reform will bring total relief of DKK 12 billion once it has been implemented. Tax relief will benefit all income groups, through reductions in top taxes and increases in bottom deductions. It would essentially be an illusion to think that all parties would agree to everything in the notice. This was far from the case in 1990, but there was a long-standing reform. The Government Parties have gained the necessary support for their system changes and the outlined reforms will be visible as propositions to the Storting. However, what has to be a cross of thought for Norwegian industry and for Norwegian workers and tax payers is the extent to which individual parties of anxiety-related impotence have approximated this task, or rather removed from it, some simply by delaying a painfully intrusive reform by wanting to send it back. The previous tax reform, 14 years ago, was reconciled by the differing agreement on principles and later by a similar interdependence on details and tax levels when the various propositions came to the Grand Duchy. This reform seems to follow the same path. Connection to the main road choices has been established, and the system will be phased out gradually. In spite of the rhetoric, we should be able to have a tax reform similar to that in 1992, which can be of benefit to Norwegian industry and employment and over time. In 1990, the attitude of the Socialist Left Party spokesman in the debate was characterised as the most confused tax reform of the century. As far as I remember, their own contribution was also significant. However, there was a good reform for Norwegian value creation, although later governments gradually increased marginal tax and pressure against the sharing model. Taking history into account, and sometimes it is necessary to do so, it shows that a significant courage is required to propose and implement changes in the systems, especially in fiscal policy, and that the level of noise in the public debate on these important issues is not always representative of reality. Courage is also required to prepare and support the proposals. What is lacking in some at this time may be reflected at the next crossroads, when details and levels of taxation are to be determined in the light of this notification, and not least in the light of the consensus reached by the Committee. Now the Government is going to implement the reform plan. The changes in the systems, not least the significant tax reliefs that the plan introduces, will help to make this reform a good step forward for the framework conditions of Norwegian business and value creation and thus secure the foundation of our future welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e362	The President has only one observation that the impotence is evenly distributed in all the parties. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e367	It is not possible, through interventions in this debate, to conceal the fact that, first of all, there is still a lot of work to be done on these tax models before they can be adopted, and, second, there is little government behind it in this position. The tax notification is as much a notification of large tax reliefs to those who do not need it as it is a notification of a new and better tax system. The message also shows that the government is not able to honour the promises of the 31 billion kroner of relief during this period, but they must also use half the next period. Then it is announced that the next step is that it should be cleaned up in the fees, as it is called. The overall level of taxation in Norway is in line with the average in the 15 old EU countries. When will the Right introduce that there is a close link between the level of taxation and the level of what we pay over the tax bill for important welfare services such as kindergarten, school, elderly care, social care and health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e376	I understand that the representative Svein Roald Hansen regrets the delay in tax relief. When the Stoltenberg government announced NOK 12 billion in tax increases, I think most people would think it would have been brilliant if you had gone the other way -- with $30 billion in relief -- even if you put in a little delay. To the question, it's not that tax relief means cut in all social arrangements for very, very many. What that means is stimulating business, stimulating labour, increasing value creation. This increases the tax base. Activities in society are increasing, and total output is getting better for everyone, not worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e383	I would first say that I saw a certain question mark about the reality of Svein Fätten, when he says that he is satisfied with the treatment that the tax message has received in Stortinget, when he also says he is proud to have paid dividends tax, and when in the same breath he talks about the tax bills to come. Now I would like to remind you that the tax credits that have been passed by the Government have been implemented with the support of the Progress Party, partly also on demand from the Progress Party. But now the government party has found a new budget party, the Labour Party, which has also said here that they do not want tax credits. Then my question is, how will the government get through these tax havens in the Stortingen, which they're bragging about?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e392	It is right, as the representative Hagesetter says, that the Progress Party supports tax relief. This is also said in the current setting, after a very long time has been spent saying that there will be no contribution to system changes that can improve conditions for Norwegian business and employment. I hope that Mr Hagesett's comment does not imply that the Progress Party has now changed its fiscal policy. Although we have strongly argued against our proposal for tax reform, I have probably seen that tax relief is still in place. It would be interesting to know if this is the case in the Progress Party, for example. is only for a complete liquidation of the property tax or is it also for the liquidation of parts of the property tax. I think the voters at the next election will be interested in answering that kind of question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e399	It is clear that the Right intends to turn the issue of housing tax into an electoral campaign theme and a electoral campaign. In this respect, it may be a point of reference to the historical justification that the benefit tax on housing has been for the interest deduction, and it is a fact that the interest waiver for very many of the country's housing owners is a significantly more important positive economic factor than the housing tax is a negative factor. Experiences from other countries in Europe that have done what the Government will now do, drastically reduce or eliminate housing taxes, have shown that housing investment has increased to a level where interest deductions have to be removed over time. What guarantee do homeowners have that this over time does not lead to the disappearance of the interest rebate, so that the relief that Svein Fleet will provide in this area will eventually become a heavy backslash for many?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e406	There is nothing in the message that says anything about removing the interest deduction. On the contrary, it has been stated by the Government that it will pass. The interest deduction is not at the same level as the other deduction schemes mentioned in the notification. The point of reorganising the deductions is to bring the so-called aid schemes into the budgets and that expenditure on the acquisition of income remains in the fiscal policy. The interest deduction has a completely different device and will therefore not be covered by the subsequent reorganisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e413	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e416	For the Progress Party, tax is an important matter. We're the treasure tag for most people. Not only do we want a lower tax level, we want a simpler tax system, and a more transparent tax system. Now, tax is not a goal in itself for the Progress Party, but it's a means of triggering a lot of positive effects. Lower taxes and simpler tax systems will generate economic growth. Investing in Norway will be more profitable. This will increase the number of establishments in Norway. It will create more jobs. Lower taxes on persons will increase the supply of work by making it more profitable to work. As a result, there will be more people offering their labour, and there will be more of those offering their labour, who want to work more. A simpler tax system will also reduce the cost of tax collection. Today it costs almost $4 billion to collect taxes. If we had a simpler tax system, this cost would have gone down. Now it's clear that the lower tax rate will give a proceeds cover the first year and, of course, the second year as well. But it's obvious that when you go a few years ahead in time, the sample surface will be significantly smaller. Of course, it's because you get economic growth, you get more companies that have profits, you get more workers who are in paid employment, because of tax relief, and that means that you have a broader basis for taxing. You could say it this way: the pie that's going to be distributed is going to be larger. Then it's okay to get a less percentage bit of a larger pie than having a larger percentage bit of a smaller pie. Now I don't think the socialist part of the Greatness has particular faith in these kinds of effects, but I seem to remember that the Right has been concerned with these kinds of effects, at least before -- before they got into the government position. Because of our strong focus on taxes, we also had high expectations for tax returns. And even if the tax communication flashes at some sensible suggestions, we clearly managed to direct our enthusiasm for the overall image of this message. One of the major weaknesses is that tax austerity is not linked to tax relief. And e.g. the dividend tax, for which the government parties are very proud that they have had an impact, is not linked to the removal of e.g. taxes on wealth. There is also too little tax relief for lower incomes, and there is a great weakness. However, we did not initially see it completely dark. We had hoped that the weaknesses in this tax return could be corrected during the treatment in Stortinget. It hasn't happened. In fact, the government has tried to repair some parts of the setting. They have changed the one-year government bond rate as a protection rate to five years. It's an improvement. They have also said that there is a need for a risk add-on to the protection model. The Progress Party has also pointed out to them, and therefore it is good that they have followed this up. Of course, these changes make the tax return better, but they don't make it good enough. The tax notice may still end with the government getting an impact on its tax incentives, but not on its tax reliefs. Of course, this is because we have a choice in 2005 and significant parts of the tax relief will be implemented after this choice. Then it's amazing to hear from the government parties that you're satisfied with what you've been given. I must also say that I am surprised that many - both the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance - go out publicly and express satisfaction that this dividend tax has been passed on with the support of the Workers' Party, while the Workers' Party points out that they will not support the tax relief. With regard to the individual proposals, I would first like to take this dividend tax model, which is so neatly called the shareholder model. It sure sounds a little bit better than calling it what it is, the dividend tax model. It has many weaknesses in it. One weakness I have mentioned, that it is not linked to the removal of the property tax, but it is also that the protection rate on the share capital is too low. Even after the change from the government parties, this is too low - there is no added risk. Now the protection rate on deposits is also higher. This means that by borrowing money into a corporation you will get a higher return with a low tax than if you put the same money in as share capital. That means if you're going to start a company that requires $10 million. NOK, you can put NOK 100,000 in the share capital, and then you borrow SEK 9.9 million. kr. So you're going to get a higher return without paying double taxes than if you had placed everything in equity. It's a weakness that's obviously going to be exploited, with the consequence that it's going to get a share company with a very weak equity. It is also a weakness that the basis for screening is limited to the individual share. It's a change in relation to the Skauge Committee. If you, for example, 500000 SEK should be placed in five different companies, so it is unlikely that more than one or two of these five companies will have a profit. So the screening basis is to be calculated from NOK 100000, possibly from NOK 200000 if there are two companies that are profit-making, and not from what is the current investment, i.e. million. kr. This means that there can be an even larger capital drier for start-ups and entrepreneurs, and this is serious. A discount should also have been assessed in addition to having a protective interest rate. The exemption model has some positive sides. It will prevent double taxation, and it makes it more attractive to leave the money in the company, and that's good. However, the date set, 26 March, can be very arbitrary. So that's the intersection of when you don't get tax liability on profits or tax deductions on losses. If you have latent losses, they will no longer provide a future tax advantage, even if they are also recorded in the accounts. It is also a weakness that private shareholders come out too badly. They won't come under the exemption model. That is why transitional arrangements should also be considered here, for example. the possibility of entering it into a separate company. The screening model contains many weaknesses, including weaknesses in addition to the dividend tax model. I said instead that it is positive that you have realized that you need a risk supplement. But what's serious and negative here is that high taxes are imposed regardless of whether the profits are taken out of the company or not. That's why it should have been investigated. It is appropriate to continue to examine whether individual and unit-linked companies can accept, on a voluntary basis, stricter accounting controls against the non-payment of double taxes on profits that remain in the company, i.e. a system similar to that of a limited liability company. This has been done in Denmark. It should also be possible to do so in Norway. The property tax is an important part of the tax burden in Norway, and one of the prerequisites we had in the negotiations with the government parties was that we had to have certainty that the property tax would be removed, so that we would go in and assess an improved model of dividend tax. It refused the government parties to participate in. They want to postpone this until after the 2005 elections. They want the taxes on wealth to be halved in 2006 and 2007 and then removed. If it happens that we get another majority in the Biggest, it can result in there being no removal of the property tax at all. Of course, with regard to the advantage of living in owner-occupied dwellings, it is positive that the Government is insisting on removing this tax. That is what the Sem Declaration also says. It states that it should be removed during the current ageing period. It is positive that they have not gone away from it - so far at least. The problem is that, at the same time, you want to expand the scope of property tax. As a result, many will experience tax reliefs more than the increase in property taxes. So you give with one hand, and then you take with the other. With regard to the taxation of persons, it is positive that the maximum tax is proposed to be reduced. There are many common industrial workers' incomes today that are charged with peak taxes. Therefore, a reduction in the peak tax is positive. On the other hand, when it comes to personal tax relief for those who are not taxed on top, there is little to boast about in the message. In fact, there has been an increase in the deduction, but at the same time, the Government proposes a deduction that would lead to a tax tightening of a total of DKK 5.3-6.3 billion, and they do not want to say what deductions this is. In any case, this means that very many of them with the lowest income will have a tax tightening with this scheme. Of course, the Progress Party could not accept that. So in the light of these points, our conclusion is that the tax return is not good enough. It should therefore be returned to the Ministry of Finance for further processing. The reason why it does not keep track of objectives is not only the many individual proposals that are not good enough, but also the whole of the communication. The fact that large parts of the declared tax reliefs will only be implemented after the fall-out next year gives little predictability. If, as I have already said, we get a different majority of the Storting, a socialist majority, then the tax austerity can happen to be implemented, both dividends and property taxes, and not the tax reliefs. It will be horribly unfortunate from the point of view of the Progress Party. We believe that we have brought an extensive hand to the government parties in this matter. We have been willing to try to correct the weaknesses and the whole of the tax message, but we do not feel that we have received the response we had hoped for. This has resulted in today’s treatment of a tax report that can quickly end up as a failure. Today, we have a majority to get tax relief. After the election, we might only have a majority for increased dividend tax and increased property tax. That is why our wish has been to have a majority in the discussion of this communication to ensure Norwegian taxpayers, both individuals and businesses, predictability and certainty that most of the proposed tax reliefs are actually adopted. Unfortunately, we find that we have not succeeded. This would lead to uncertainty. This will allow Norwegian investment in Norway to be put on hold, to be postponed until after the 2005 elections. This will also, of course, mean that we do not get the value creation and the growth in the Norwegian economy that we could otherwise have achieved. It will also lead to higher unemployment. There is currently a significant uncertainty about what becomes the fate of the tax return. It's very bad. Finally, I would like to address our proposal on the return of the entire tax return.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e468	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e473	Gjermund Hagesetter said that lower taxes will create more jobs. Yeah, that's good rhetoric. In the theoretical world, it probably works this way, but in practice, it's not quite like that. We see that reduced taxes this year led to the government cutting off everything we were going to live on in future, both innovation and development - so that's probably not like that. So the government is going to give $12 billion in taxes. I heard from the post of Gjermund Hageseter that there will be several tens of billions in addition, if the Progress Party gets an impact on its tax model to reduce taxes. Then my question is, there must be an equivalent to all of this tax. What's the progress game going to cut? Now they have to say it too. Is there any higher property for people who now think a lot, because they get huge treasures? Is there a reduction in schooling, a cut in old age care, or is it cut in transportation? All of the operations have an opposite side.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e487	Norway is a small country. We have high wages in Norway, and of course we should be happy to have that. But then it's very important that we are competitive in other areas. It is important that we are competitive when it comes to taxes. We believe that if we do manage to create competitive conditions for Norwegian businesses, we will be set up, and we will also have economic growth. How we want to finance these tax havens is very clear in our alternative government budget. If Ranveig Frøiland reads it -- maybe it's done before -- she knows that we want to cut a number of areas. But we also want to reduce the huge surplus that the Norwegian state is operating with, precisely because we believe that investing in tax credits will create an economic growth that will cause us to get a lot of these money back over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e494	After reading the comments on the Progress Party, I have a few questions that I hope the representative Hagesetter can help me with. That's as far as any of the same things that Ranveig Frøiland was into. The Progress Party will "remove the property tax, property tax and inheritance tax" and the housing tax. They do not want tax on dividends, are skeptical of dividend taxes, and wages and dividends are taxed equally. So it's not going to be a tax if you want to treat it the same way. It is also necessary to limit excise duties. Then there will not be so much left to pay for all the good purposes for which the Progress Party still wants to grant more money. My question is: how does the Progress Party want to finance the common consumption? If you don't pay taxes, it doesn't help so much that you believe in the dynamic effects of tax policy. Is there an increase in VAT Advance Party wants, or is it using all the oil money right away?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e503	As I've explained several times before, we want to reduce the tax in a range of areas because we think it will trigger a lot of positive effects. What's a little special about this case is that the Right agreed on it before, when they were in opposition. At that time, they were some of the tax cuts proposed by the Progress Party, and they were also some of them to cut in many areas, including: unnecessary public bureaucracy. What happens is that when they get in position, they're no longer some of it. We're still on the verge of reducing taxes. We also propose that in our alternative state budget, and I would also encourage Heidi Larssen, and so far the rest of the Right Party and the other government parties, to read in our alternative state budget both what we prioritize of taxes, and what cuts we have. It says a lot of good things.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e510	Unfortunately, that's exactly what we've done. We've read what the Progress Party actually writes. It might make us a little bit worried, to say it carefully, if this party were to get some power and influence. In addition to all these taxes and taxes that Mrs Larssen went through carefully, it is also desirable to remove large parts of the top tax. It is written polemically about progressive taxation, and that this is very unfortunate for the distribution of income, and it calls it dynamic tax policy. In the 1980s it was called voodoo economy and was practiced by, among other things. Margaret Thatcher and not least Ronald Reagan with great success. Unemployment has been raised to a level that has not yet been achieved. It means that very many of these dynamic effects are really not part of the world of reality. My question to Hagesetter is really whether he can give me an example of a country that has created more well-being for its citizens and fewer unemployed with this kind of voodoo economy. It doesn't exist in the real world, and it's probably that that doesn't go as far as removing the progressiveness of the tax system either. It's possible that Hagesetter might think that Margaret Thatcher was a bit too socialist, what do I know?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e517	Now I am not going to aim to convince SV that there is a dynamic in tax policy. I think I would take longer than the minute I have to consult. I'm not trying to start at it. At least we believe that lower tax rates and a simpler tax system will provide the basis for increased economic growth. So ask Øystein Djupedal if I have any example on land where one can refer to such effects. The finance committee was actually on a committee trip to Ireland, and I believe Øystein Djupedal was there. He obviously didn't get that much of the professional on the trip. It was quite clearly shown that tax laws had created economic growth. It had given an optimism in society, and there were a lot of positive effects of the tax havens. I would recommend Øystein Djupedal to take a new trip to Ireland, or study it a little closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e524	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e527	I think it was Ibsen who said you should be careful to take the faith from an average person, and that's what this post from Hagesetter confirms. He can live in his faith. I won't take that away from him. The tax system has three important tasks: to provide revenue to finance the welfare state, to redistribute income so that those at the top of the table pay more than those at the bottom, and to contribute to the efficient use of society’s resources. This is the starting point for SV in assessing what tax changes we think are right. Our starting point is that you don't necessarily have to pay your taxes with joy, but it has to be paid with understanding. Should that be possible, the tax system must be structured in such a way that it is perceived as fair and reasonable, in addition to bringing money into the treasury, so that we can further expand the welfare state. We want the community to finance the Community's projects - kindergartens, schools, hospitals and whatever it may be - through a common tax, not through self-payment and self-esteem, as the Government increasingly wants. Our starting point, therefore, is that 12 billion DKK in tax relief to the most wealthy and prosperous in Norway, as the Government's proposal implies, is very unfortunate. It shows, as all the empirical evidence also shows, that the Right People have their heart nearest to the wallet and are not concerned about how the welfare state can be further expanded. This approach adopted by SV to the tax system is the one that has actually characterised the construction of the Nordic welfare countries. It has a long history run in our country, which has contributed to lower unemployment and a better welfare state than is the case in many other countries. It has also contributed to minor differences between people and lower unemployment, it has contributed to robust businesses and, in particular, it has helped to ensure that the principle of co-financed welfare services is a good one. This approach to taxation and distribution has been and is an outstanding success. There is no reason for this success to be torn down by the right side, and there is no reason why the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, who want something else, will have the opportunity to experiment further with the welfare state's future. Listening to this tax debate gives the impression that Norway is a country that is at the top in terms of taxes and taxes, but this is not true. All international research shows that Norway is about the middle of the team, where Norway should lie. We are under our closest neighbouring country in the Nordic region, under many major European nations, but we are also, of course, above those countries with the lowest welfare in Europe. So we're about where we should lie, and high taxes are not for anyone, for either individuals or businesses, some crucial problem in Norway. Not much was left of what some have called a new major tax reform, which, compared with its ambitious estimates, was compared with the 1992 tax reform. A comprehensive preparation was established under the leadership of former Minister of Finance Arne Skauge, but there will be nothing left once the Stortinget has completed this. I think those who must be most disappointed today are Arne Schauge and all the people who put together with him in this comprehensive tax commission, because one sees that there wasn't much left of all these long meetings, all these great investigations that they got presented. The comical thing is maybe, with SV's eyes, that the only government gets a majority for, is tax on dividends, a principle that SV stood alone in this room for very many years. Eventually we got support from others, and now even the Government, and not least Per-Cristian Foss, is the one who has spent the most time polishing up against this over the years, who introduces this. This is, of course, a historical paradox, but it shows that those who have always claimed, and asserted with weight, that taxing dividends is right, are right. This principle is correctly introduced in a very modified form, but it is introduced as a principle and is welcomed by SV. The government has lost its way in this message. They were so preoccupied with tax relief that they forgot it absolutely decisively in a tax reform, namely that a reform as such must be tax-free or tax-advanced. That's why this has become the big belly pad it's actually become. You've gone into a structure that depends on being lubricated by tax relief, instead of going into a reform change, and then each party can think of what you want about the level of tax. It's what makes this not a tax reform, it's become a tax notice of NOK 12 billion in tax relief. That is also why it has been painted by the Storting and in practice does not support any decisive point other than tax on dividends on shares. This means that hardly anyone in this room or outside this hall is going to talk about a major tax reform in 2004, as is still the case with the 1992 tax reform, simply because the proposals are fundamental nonsocial, with great relief in wealth taxes and top taxes, and tax on dividends in return. It has also become even more moderate through the treatment of government parties in Stortinget. This means that in practice, very few people will now pay taxes on dividends through the changes made here. In addition, the deductions you want to remove have not been specified, but you have just said that you want to remove the deductions in the order of $5.5-6.5 billion. Deduction is known as some of the things that hit everyone and have the greatest effect on those with low income. When you don't put this into practice, it'll be those with low income who get the message. The main problem with the tax system is that it has had a fundamental injustice in the fact that capital income has been so much lower than income from labour, and not least that large income from dividends has been tax-free for the beneficiaries. SV therefore agrees that the split model must be removed. In 1992, SV warned against the weaknesses of the sharing model and its implementation. We therefore went against this model of 1992, and in many ways it can be said that this debate is Eilef Melands, our then tax-policy spokesman, the great revish, for he warned in detail about the weaknesses in the divisional model. But removing the divisional model does not necessarily mean that the tax rate on labour and capital must be exactly the same as the percentage. Part of the tax we pay on personal income is social security contributions, and it gives rights that capital taxes do not give. It is therefore right to assume that there is some difference, some difference, between the rate of income on capital and the rate of income on labour. SV does not want lower top taxes. We do not want this message to be lubricated with DKK 12 billion in tax relief. But we're very clear that the main principle of the tax return is that you have to redistribute. For SVs, this means that we want higher minimum deductions for those with low incomes. The government has proposed to remove the youth card for some totally incomprehensible reason. I believe that in a lot of election campaigns I have now registered that the Young Right has travelled around and said that you should increase the amount of the credit card, and not remove it completely. This must be one of many examples of how little influence Young Right has on the Right. It is also interesting to note that the Government wants an extension of the document fee to include housing law apartments. Here the Government will place the bulk of the population in place. This is probably a proposal for unfair taxation from the Government towards young people. It's essentially interesting to see that the whole profile this government has is that if you're an adult, a middle-aged man, there's no limit to what tax relief this government wants to overcharge you with, but if you have moderate incomes, youth, or any other way in general, this government won't give you anything, rather take away from you what you might have. SV wants a different model of capital taxation than the majority wants. It differs from the shareholder model by taking into account all capital income, including equity income, but it does not have this protection deduction that has been one of the major weaknesses of the shareholder model. Instead, we want a bottom line. The advantage of that is that there is a fairer tax on capital, by making all the different capital incomes equal. On the basis of the principle of equal taxation of different incomes, such a model is far preferable. It will also generate more revenue to the country, revenues that can be used to facilitate other parts of the tax system, such as: facilitation of personal taxation through higher deductions from the base. The weakness of the shareholder model is, in particular, the protection model. In particular, for new enterprises with a small capital value, it is difficult to set a cost or a market price for a share that is not traded. This could lead to tax relief for these companies. All parties, except the government parties, request that this be further investigated, in particular because this was not part of the comprehensive investigation work on which it was based. A major weakness of this Communication is that green taxation is not affected to a large extent. SV wanted it to be part of the mandate of the Skauge Committee. Unfortunately it was not, and it turns out now that this is a great weakness. Green taxation, or lower taxes on labour income and higher taxes on environmental pollution, is a proper tax principle, which, not least for Norwegian enterprises, will also be an important part of future taxation. This should have been part of the setting so that we could get a whole in this. I see the president getting up, and that means my post is now over. But the sum sum, I have to say, this tax message has been a magic spot for the Government. It will not leave any lasting mark in the Norwegian tax debate other than through an important principle, namely that share income should now be taxed, and that is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e567	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e571	First of all, a little correction: Salig Ibsen is not talking about threatening from the average man, but without any special reference to Gjermund Hageseter and the Advance Party, it is right that in the "Vildand" it is called, "Do you take the life lie from an average man, then you take the happiness from him right away." Otherwise, I have to tell the representative, Mr. Djupedal, that SV and the Workers' Party are in the process of getting a better distribution of the tax, the purpose of the tax and the tax system as Djupedal outlined, creating well-being in society, getting a better redistribution, and also the arrangements for the tax system. After all, we have always been in the hope of seeing taxes on exchange. It's about making a fairer taxing of capital and a better redistribution. That has always been very clear. Now they also end up in the option of the shareholder model, which gives a more permanent impact for an exchange tax. But when you read the setting and listen to Djupedal now, it's mildly said something dark. What is the actual SV mean in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e578	In terms of belief and life lie for the Progress Party, I think it's two sides of the exact same case. To the representative's question: we want a capital tax that is more fair, and that is also beyond mere shareholder taxation. The Aktionar model has some advantages. We are now introducing a tax principle that we agree with. But we'd like to see other models figured out, and the Skage Committee is also involved in several different models of capital taxation that have a broader base, but that can of course be dimensioned as you like, with bottom subtraction. The action model, in particular that of the shielding deduction and the free income, has major weaknesses, weaknesses which are also pointed out in the majority’s observations. We think it is positive that we are now finally introducing a model, and as the representative Rudihagen quite rightly says, we have substitutively given our support to it, but we want primarily a fairer capital tax model. It's not finished. Like many other things in this message, it's just sketchy. That's why we've just sketched out how to design such a model.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e587	The representative Djupedal has obviously become the victim of a self-imposed reality shift when he claims that there is not much left of the tax reform. Government parties cross-approach most of the elements of the message. The work on the reform continues as planned, and it is excellent. SV supports removing the split model. The representative of Djupedal considers that it is not necessary to reduce the maximum marginal tax rates in order to remove the split model. Of course, it is technically right that you can remove the split model without reducing the top tax. But the consequence is that those with the highest income can reduce their taxes quite strongly by establishing a limited company and taking out wages and salaries as dividends instead of labour income. In my opinion, it is quite unreasonable that people get lower taxes only by establishing a limited company and withdrawing the money as dividends. This was, of course, the reason for establishing the divisional model in 1992, and this is an important part of the balance of the tax reform that has now been proposed. Can the representative Djupedal defend that SV will now create a tax loophole for those with high income and adaptability?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e594	It's hard to imagine a model, like this. the Government proposes, having approximately the same rate, with as large holes as this model has. We recognize that we do not want to give so much tax relief to those with high incomes by reducing the top tax. We think it's socially wrong and unfair. Of course, our model will have an option for customization, which all models actually have. The bill that we have, which we have presented only in sketch, will have about social security contributions in difference. This means that those who choose to take this as capital income and not as labour income will therefore not receive the benefits of taxing something like labour income, namely the social security rights that come with it when paying social security contributions. We can't create a tax system that won't be smart enough to adapt. Our outlined tax system will also have great opportunities for adaptation. But our system will have the fundamental difference from the government's that it's fair, and justice in the tax system is itself the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e603	Now there's nothing new in that SV wants higher taxes for very large groups, especially for those they call rich. They're supposed to be skinned. One of the groups that is very strongly opposed is the fleets that are established in Norway, and their international taxation. This taxation is not even good enough today, but SV wants to exacerbate it. Already today there are many fleet teams that consider flagging out. A flagging out of these fleets will mean that it is no longer natural to buy services in Norway. This will also cause problems for many other maritime enterprises. My question to the representative, Mr Djupedal, is: does it not see that there will be an increase in unemployment if, in other words, a fleet is taxing which is worse than the internationally competitive taxing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e610	I record that there is not the industry in Norway, perhaps with the exception of Norwegian farmers, which the Progress Party does not want to provide tax relief. If Norway's most wealthy banks on the doorstep of the Hagesets and company say we need tax relief, they get it. The party of progress was the only party in this room - as far as I understood it - that now the oil industry had a legitimate claim to get relief of the order of 10 billion kroner. They thought they were completely legitimate. The progress party just says yes and amen. The shipping industry in Norway is an industry heavily subsidized by Norwegian taxpayers. I am amazed that one of our proudest and oldest industries has become dependent on public subsidies in order to stay here. Any business is free to move if you want to. We cannot prevent that with the tax system. We want them to stay in Norway. Norwegian society provides a significant return through social welfare schemes. What we're registering is that the shipping companies give us little back in terms of tax revenue to the Norwegian state. I'm amazed that the shipping companies act the way they do, when they're so reluctant to give something back to Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e617	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e620	One can ask the question: why should we adopt a tax reform now? What's wrong with the system we have today? And what do we want to achieve with the changes we're proposing? The most important task of the tax system is to generate revenue for the collective costs of society. The way this happens, however, is not immaterial. If one is going to pay into society's common fund, there's a reasonable expectation in the people that it has to be done in a fair way. One of the main problems today is that the tax system is not fair and thus undermines the legitimacy of the tax system. If our Norwegian companies are to be competitive, they must have a somewhat similar tax burden to their closest competitors. That makes us today, and still want to have, flat tax of 28 pst. In the municipality of Lund in Rogaland, we have a small business with twelve employees who make threshing shoes. There are important jobs in District Norway. The small company, Eik Treskofabrik, has about seven million. kr on the market. It is driven by a married couple who both work in the company. The company has built up over the year and today makes great success with coloured Norwegian wood shoes. When I was visiting them a few years ago, I asked what was the most important thing we could do to secure their jobs. "Remove the sharing model," was their clear answer. "We've managed to go with a profit that we want to keep at the company for new investments, and we don't understand that any of this is to be taxed as a salary." The current split model, which was to separate employee income from entrepreneurial income, does not work as intended. This is why the Government wants to introduce new models, among them the shareholder model, which will take care of the same intentions. This means that at the moment when a person withdraws income for private consumption, a marginal tax is to be paid approximately the same as that for employee income. Using a money to develop the company or invest in other companies and participating in job creation, one still has to pay only 28 pst. tax. This removes the sharing model and the tax planning. This will achieve a fairer tax system, which can contribute to continued value creation and new jobs. However, the introduction of these models alone would lead to a net tax tightening for many enterprises. For this reason, the government will also step down the wealth tax. The parties that today say that they want to introduce the shareholder model within a proceeds neutral framework will actually increase taxes on business. That has not been the purpose of the reform. The aim has been to create a fairer and more predictable system. Therefore, one cannot look at the shareholder model and the shielding model in isolation. One must see them in the context of a reduction in the taxes on wealth. So the government's system reforms are not an à la carte menu that you can pick from. This is a reform that is linked. Some of the changes will provide tax increases, others will provide tax relief. The sum is a fairer, predictable and business-friendly tax system. It's important for value creation, and it's important for the legitimacy of the tax system out there among the people most. Finally, there's been some focus on the deductions. Let me then stress that we are still going to have a deduction in the tax system. But it doesn't have to be that we can't discuss the relevance and function of the deductions. The government wants one to go through the deductions. Some deductions might make sense to move over to the cost side. In particular, this deduction requires professional judgement. Some deductions may be possible to remove against a higher general minimum deduction. However, in a tax communication, one should discuss principles and direction. This message does not address individual items, nor does it address deductions. We're going to get back to that discussion. Let me end by saying that the Christian People's Party is pleased that the main features of the tax notice regarding the choice of models have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e644	The tax is important in order to obtain revenue for public expenditure, says the representative Tørresdal. I really agree with that. So she also says that we're going to come back to all of this that goes on deductions. There can't be anything about now, because it's going to be in the budget. But what you can say about now is that you have to give $12 billion in taxes. It's not hard to say now, because it's going to be subtracted, and it's going to be less taxed for people. But isn't the representative of Tørresdal a little worried that this could be a little bit of a lack of money for the common costs? We see it in the budget that we are going to deal with next week, that it has been a hard time getting money back for innovation and for innovation for business so that we can create more jobs. There hasn't been much room to get even more money for health and school, so it's up to the representative, Mr. Dryersdal, to reduce our income.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e655	It is not surprising that the Workers' Party will ask questions about tax relief to the Christian People's Party. Tax bills are not a goal in itself. Taxes in this context must be seen in a context in which a person wishes to make changes. On the issue of whether one is concerned about covering all the costs that one needs to ensure well-being, it is clear that any politician should be concerned when expenditure increases and revenue decreases. It is important to see a whole, both to create safe jobs, to secure sufficient income for the community and to have a proper tax system. Focusing on whether to be for or against tax relief is going to be wrong. Having the right tax arrangements is going to be right. This reform is a step in the right direction to safeguard business and create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e665	I find here that the Christian People's Party does not want to take a decision on the deduction until later. That is, to a certain extent, a matter. Unfortunately, this will lead to very great uncertainty. The progress party takes it into account, but we've said in our comments that some deductions we don't want to remove under any circumstances. It's a deduction from interest expenses, it's a special deduction from age and disability, for service and major disease costs, it's travel expenses and travel expenses at home, it's parental deduction from documented expenditure, it's a private and public pension scheme, and it's an individual pension agreement. My question to the representative Bjørg Tørresdal is about the Christian People's Party can now confirm that some of these deductions are not removed under any circumstances. Or do all the groups that benefit from these deductions have to live in uncertainty until this is settled?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e679	Such an invitation to start a debate that will come later, it could be very tempting to go into it, for the debate on deduction is a debate in which the Christian People's Party will take an active part. This government has proposed extended deductions in relation to gift receipts, so that debate is important for the Christian People's Party. It has been mentioned here that an interest rebate should not be removed. I don't want to go so much further into it than to say that we're going to be active in the debate, and we're inviting the Progress Party to the team to take care of the best and most sensible deductions in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e686	The government's proposal has a distribution profile that must pain the Christian People's Party, at least if the party is recognizable after a few years of hopping with the Right. Here again, the government appears as the wealthy, middle-aged men's government, with concrete promises to the groups that we know the most in society already, and that will reinforce the differences between social classes, between age groups and between sex. For those sitting at the other end of the table, it's a little concrete, especially because we know so little about what will be the outcome of the government's proposal to remove deductions. One of the persistent lifting breaches that government parties have not dealt with this time is the promise, especially to young people, to raise the free-card limit and provide a lower tax burden for those who earn a few dollars in summer jobs and part-time jobs. On the contrary, the Government in the message did not distance itself from the Skage's proposal to completely remove the free card. Can the Christian People’s Party now lay the ball dead and promise that the free card will last?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e693	It is very positive that SV has positive expectations for the Christian People's Party's policy in terms of both cohesion, student funding and the role of students. We'll get back to what's going on with a free card and the student's earnings, but I want to say there's a lot of ways to secure a full-time student, including through a good student funding. I will once again refrain from going into the debate on the deduction, but there will be important debates on social cohesion that we will take when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e700	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e703	May 26th. the Financial Committee received a letter from the NHO, the Shipowners’ Association, the Confederation of Enterprises and HSH. I call it the last distress call. Give us a comprehensive tax reform with the widest possible anchor as a guarantee of stability is their message. The wish is far from fulfilled. The letter argues against the Government's proposal to halve the property tax by increasing the base deductions and reducing the rate. "If it is not possible to remove the entire wealth tax at the same time as the introduction of progressive taxation of ownership income, at least the wealth tax on working capital must be abolished," they say. The centre party has become the sole promoter of this as a proposal. We propose that food should be freed from the restrictions practised in Sweden since 1992. The government’s tax losses are estimated at DKK 2 billion. At the 1999 Plaza Agreement, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Workers' Party agreed with us. I dare to predict the majority at the next crossroads. Business needs tax relief more than rich individuals currently do. The lack of agreement and clarification of a new tax reform is the responsibility of the Government. The main bet was a massive and unsocial taxet for which they knew it was only a dirty majority. Reduced tax equalisation is very far from the spirit of the Value Commission and the Equalisation Communication. The most positive thing is that the Government strongly defends the fact that dividends in excess of a tax-free share are to be taxed by 28 pst. Unbearable double taxation they called it, when the tax rate was 11 pst. and a tax-free amount of NOK 10 000. The centre party is pleased that the sharing model can be removed for limited liability companies. It is a pity that the conversion can only take place from 2006 and that there is so much uncertainty relating in particular to the taxation of dividends where the shares are owned by a limited liability company. This should have been better clarified. The centre party supports the shareholder model subject to the conversion giving tax revenue as indicated and not just increased bureaucracy. The proposed model for the majority of enterprises, those owned privately or jointly owned, has been rejected. It is unacceptable if many are forced to become an AS to avoid a juicy tax return. In particular, the centre party is entitled to these conditions, which are the smallest companies. A lot of start-ups belong here. Typical of these is that the ownership risk is greater than in an AS in which only the share capital can be lost. The increased risk must be reflected in a lower dividend tax. The economic results of the Government's proposals are totally unacceptable to the Central Party. There may be no need to compensate those who have received tax-free share income for many years. This amounted to as much as 42 billion dollars two years ago. The arguments for cutting the top tax so strongly in order to remove the split model are not convincing. The government proposes that those with income of NOK 75 000 should receive NOK 1000 more in tax. One of 150,000 dollars is going to get 800 dollars in a lower tax. The 1.5 million of us with income less than NOK 225 000 will only receive 0.7 of the 15 billion given in taxes on employee income. And the 900,000 of us with income over 350,000 dollars get 11.3 billion dollars. Men get 11 billion dollars from this tax, women only 4. The tax base is 1,8 pst. of the wages and salaries of men and 1,1 pst. of the wages and salaries of women. How do Bondevik and Davøy manage to stand upright behind such an anti-equality proposal? People in the districts will slow down more backwards. There are lower revenues. They'd probably like to pay more top taxes. The government's proposals give the inhabitants of Bærum equal gains in reduced top taxes to the whole of North Norway, where there are four times as many. 450 million. kr is the gain for Bærum. The four northernmost counties plus Hedmark and Uppland count as many as Akershus and Oslo, who get 2 billion kroner in extra purchasing power. Is it necessary? Is that fair? No, it's the Central Party's answer. The centre party will not be able to contribute to such a large amount of tax relief that roads, schools and care for the elderly will be poorer or even more payable by the individual. The central party believes that the dividend tax, less black economy, and increased value creation can provide tax relief for some. We will then reduce the tax on low and medium income by increasing the deductions just for them. It stimulates increased participation. We want to increase the free card limit for young people. We will give a separate tax deduction to single residents, and we will extend the action zone with lower personal tax. And we want lower corporate tax and dividend tax in conversion municipalities. The centre party is in favour of freer local tax fixing, primarily for concrete purposes and after an advisory referendum, so that an additional tax is expressed to the people. Property taxes must be voluntary, with a minimum of government leads. I would like to take up with this the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e735	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e740	The Labour Party and the Center Party agree on a lot in the setting, but the Center Party has a part - we'll call it - special suggestions in addition. The distinction between economic wealth and other wealth is considered. Greater local tax law also applies to general tax rates, in addition to property taxes. Now it was supposed to happen after a referendum, so I guess there's no widespread phenomenon in that case. They want a geographical differentiation of depreciation rates, lower corporate tax in conversion municipalities for 10 years and a differentiated risk premium in the protection rate for the shareholder model. This is not exactly a contribution to getting a more transparent tax system. In addition, the Centre Party warns that personal charges should be reduced. Excise duties amount to approx. $70 billion in income. What are the reductions in the Centre Party thinking about that field, and how are they going to cover it up? I do not believe that the Senterpartiet is a major champion for a significantly lower level of taxes and charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e747	It's true that the Center Party sees no possibility of financing the welfare society we have today, with lower tax revenue than what we have. I think it's easy to understand the population for that. We pay a lot of taxes in Norway, but we get very good services. We want a more accurate tax system than the majority wants. We know that tax is something that helps change the behavior of people. The fact that we had a district tax law a few years ago, was very positive for the districts, because it led to better capital access. That's what we think about when we propose something extra for the conversion municipalities. Once the name has been given to a conversion municipality, it is because it has special problems. What they're saying from Høyanger and Årdal is that new risk capital is needed. Lower taxes, lower dividend taxes and corporate taxes will be a magnet for new risk capital of those municipalities. We also want to strengthen the districts with the same instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e752	Morten Lund here states that the Centre Party will enter into the process of eliminating the taxation of industrial property, but that a still tax on private property will be applied. Now, of course, it's positive that the Center Party is going in to exempt the food wealth at least, but I didn't think it was so positive that a wish to retain taxes on private property. Today is 40 pst. of the taxes on wealth paid by pensioners. This is probably a percentage that will not go down in the years ahead, but rather increase. Then my question is to the representative Lund: is it okay that pensioners who have managed to save up a few hundred thousand during a long working life and have these placed in the bank, will have to pay taxes on wealth of this amount?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e760	The centre party wishes to eliminate taxes on wealth on industrial capital because it is requested by the business community. We think it's business that now needs tax relief -- much more than private people, including pensioners. Business needs tax relief especially now, because there has been a very difficult situation. In terms of property taxes for individuals, I think what we should do most about was the housing tax system, so that we paid out of a more real value of the homes -- whether it concerns property taxes, property taxes or income taxes. The centre party is not ready to remove the property tax on the rest, except for commercial capital, but we want ordinary dwellings to be free of all taxes, i.e. that we need to have a new tax system, and we need to get higher deductions, which protects ordinary dwellings with the standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e767	The center part and SV have agreed on many things in the setting. However, there is one particular thing that we wonder about, and that is that the Senter Party is once again part of the majority who, despite fine formulations of neutrality and the breadth of the tax base, joins a tax subsidy on the shipping companies. So here we are facing an industry that uses emigration as a threat to gain privileges, and that instead of being met with demands to take social responsibility, is being met with tax offices by the majority of the Stortinget. The question is, why does the Central Party continue to have this warm relationship with the Shipowners' Association, and whether there are no others who deserve more of the attention of the Centre Party than the shipowners.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e772	For the Central Party, it is important to break the principle of business neutrality in both the tax system and industrial policy. It's devastating if we're not going to be able to pick any business areas where we're already strong, and where we can bet more. We don't want a special tax system for shipping companies, but for the maritime industries. I think that if we don't have a shipping office in Norway, everything else in the maritime cluster is going on. It's been our arguments all along. Then we're concerned that it's going to be possible to make demands on the shipping companies, so they don't come back every day with threats of moving out of Norway if they don't get it even better. It's not just about the shipping companies, it's about them right now. They've had a strong position, and I think they're going to have a strong position. We want further measures of this kind aimed at those industries where we believe that opportunities are best.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e779	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e782	In the days before the government announced St.meld. No 29, there were a lot of journalists out there to know the content. I then asked them to read pages 60-62 in the Left's deposit election program, in other words: Left we think we have had too much impact on our tax policy. The biggest injustice with the tax system we have today is that equal incomes are going to be different. The difference between the tax rate on investment income and labour income may be up to 30 pst. So if you work in your own company and earn normal salary, you can risk paying 30 pst. more in tax than if you as a business owner only meet at the board meeting once a month and take the same amount as dividends. The left has been opposed to the divisional model since it was introduced in 1992, and we are therefore very pleased that it will be removed from 1 January 2006. A tax system has to be perceived as being as fair as possible, and that means, among other things. equal income is taxed equally, regardless of how the income is ignited. This is all of the games in the first place. But the problem is how to do this. The left has never been the principal opponent of tax on dividends, but the combination of high dividend tax, the divisional model that is now, and the strange wealth tax, will give our companies greater tax pressure than their competitors in other countries have. This in turn means that we could risk losing thousands of Norwegian jobs. The split model is now replaced by an shareholder model and a shielding model, and the strange wealth tax will be abolished. During a transitional period, probably individual companies will experience a higher tax burden than would be desirable. But the co-operation government will remove the property tax. And the best guarantee that he really will be removed is that this government is also after the 2005 elections. That the progress part is more immoderate and will remove the wealth tax faster, I understand. But that the Labour Party does not want to remove the wealth tax, but goes high on the path of rhetoric that this is tax relief for the rich, yes, it should worry all workers in competitive business. Because if the Labour Party, together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, are to take over government offices and implement their tax policy, thousands of jobs will be abolished. In order to avoid our companies moving out, we cannot significantly increase the tax on capital, and corporate tax rates should therefore be passed on to 28 pst. If such an approach is to be adopted to the tax rate on capital and labour income, the tax on persons must be reduced. The left is pleased that the government presented is moving towards a flatter tax and a tax system that is organised so that it is easier to understand and manage. High top taxes and marginal taxes cause social losses through lower value creation, making working less profitable. High marginal taxes increase the growth of high wages and salaries, with an increase in differences as a result. The adverse effects of high marginal taxes are greater than the distribution effects. The left's options, green taxes, flattening taxes and a large bottom-up tax, will give far better distribution effects. The left considers that the top tax must be reduced. Today, we have a lot of deduction arrangements in our tax system. It is mostly those with medium or high incomes that benefit most from several of these deductions. Removing the deduction, then using the proceeds to increase the minimum subtraction, will provide a better distribution profile than today's system. Left wants a flattened tax system with a high bottom subtraction. This is a step in the right direction. Removal of deductions may have major consequences for individual groups. The deductions must therefore be settled gradually. And deductions that are perhaps more social than allocation-based should not be removed without ensuring support schemes for other budget chapters in the State budget. The left-hand side says that deductions are essentially related to the acquisition of income. It is claimed that marginal taxes are facilitated by the removal of property taxes and the reduction of top taxes are tax-free for the rich. Yes, if you think about it as NOK 700,000, you'll get a few tax dollars, but if you think about it, you'll want to work for a little bit more. saving capital for houses, one with today's tax system will experience that most of what you work extra for goes to the state in the form of taxes. Today's tax system encourages no one to work any more to perhaps invest in a better future. In other words, the left is very satisfied with the government's proposal for tax reform. I must say that I am sorry that there is no broad agreement for this tax reform. But there's a multiple that's behind the important points, and when the proposition comes, we can get to discuss the details. I hope that this government sits there and will deliver a good tax conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e812	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e815	The representative Vihovde was inside, and in fact she began with, that she was happy that there were many who were looking to know something about this setting and this message. And then I'll try again -- I'd like to know a little bit more about things. With regard to the reorganisation of all special deductions, of which such a large number has been made, not least on the containment side - NOK 5.3-6.3 billion - I would like to ask the representative Mr Vihovde very specifically: is it the deduction relating to sickness costs and disability, which has to be removed? Is the class 1 or class 2 deduction to be removed? Or is housing savings for young people to be removed? I would like a concrete answer to that question, since it is operating at NOK 6.3 billion in revenue. I am also looking to know, because I have not been told anything about these questions at all in any letter sent to the Minister of Finance. So I think the representative Vihovde should answer us, when she says that she is happy that there are many who are looking to know something.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e822	At least I can start by giving the representative Nordtun one clear answer, because he has well received that earlier today in a line exchange with the representative Fleet. The interest deduction I think there will be no proposal for a reduction on. But when it comes to these deductions that are in today's tax system, many people don't have a distributive profile, but there are very few that might be useful. Some of these deductions must be seen in conjunction with the expenditure page in the budget - one can instead add them to the distribution of other pots and add them to those that need the most. Then we've said that we have to look at the deductions that are for the acquisition of income, and let them lie down. It gives a certain signal, maybe, to the Nordtun representative. But we're actually going to come back to this in different propositions and budget proposals. You have to look at the deductions related to reduced taxes on top and wealth, before going in and signaling what an explicit deduction will be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e831	I'm very pleased that Vihovde says that the left wants to remove the sharing model. That's what the Progress Party wants, but unlike the Left, we want to make sure that we don't replace it with anything worse. Many of the individuals and split-like companies that will fall under the so-called protection model will clearly receive increased taxation if they are introduced. He also has the same weakness as the division model. one is taxed regardless of whether the surplus is taken out of the enterprise or not. And it doesn't provide any good incentive to pluck the money back again for additional value creation. Then I have a short question for the representative Vihovde. What makes Left think that the display model is better than the split model?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e840	What I think is the worst thing about today's sharing model, is that if a company works in a company, a tax is much harder than if a company owns the same company, but only makes dividends. Distinguishing between liberal and non-liberal professions means that an actual rate to those degrees can circumvent the rule of converting labour income into capital income. It's the biggest disadvantage of today's sharing model. The left-hand side sees that the screen saver model will be able to sharpen the tax and maybe get some bad results. For this reason, we have signalled in the message that when setting the screen rate, one must set the risk-free interest rate at the interest rate of five-year government bonds. We want to make this a little bit simpler. But at the same time, we want to reduce the wealth tax. We believe that collecting the tax burden on these companies will be less, and that it will contribute to innovation and more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e847	The left tends to represent itself as the party of small and medium-sized enterprises. In this context, it is relevant to consider what has been going on before today, namely that a road report has now been presented which shows that even for non-residents, smaller enterprises seem to be making a lot of use of so-called internal pricing and the movement of profits out of the country. For only two of the industries studied here, it is believed that the tax loss could be as large as 800 million. kr. The business association is going hard in the morning paper today and says that it is "incomprehensible" that the government is not more offensive to take action against this, also because of course there is a huge competitive disadvantage for Norwegian companies in the same industries that are going to compete with foreign-owned companies that can operate with completely different margins. The left hand side is one of the parts that have said before that you would go into this problem. Nevertheless, we experienced from the SV that we did not receive any support for the comment we made in connection with the tax communication. And then the questions are, When does the Left think it's appropriate to come back to this? And does the Left disagree with the Federation that this is something that needs to be addressed as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e855	The representative Lighthouse is right that we have signaled that we evaluated the comment on SV. We're busy and of course we want the most possible companies to tax Norway. But with the law that we have today, there's an actual possibility of going in and looking at this and getting in the tax that's needed -- even if one doesn't go in for the comment. On the left hand side of the government, and we record that the government is busy with this and looks at both the law and the control measures that are there. The law that we have today, we perceive that one has the ability to do the necessary checks, and that this is not the big problem that the lookup indicates. There may be no need for changes in the law. There may be more need for control.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e862	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e865	The Coastal Party will have lower taxes on necessities such as work, food and housing. Such a value-conservative tax policy will help create basic security for most people, not least those with low income. The government's proposal for tax reform is a step in the right direction. It is beneficial to balance the differences between taxes on labour income and taxes on capital income so that the sharing model can be liquidated. It is also good that the wealth tax and the benefit tax are proposed to be abolished. However, the coastal party will enjoy fiscal non-discrimination for all forms of wealth. Then the property tax and the inheritance tax must also be abolished. In this way, most people can be motivated to create values and think in the long term to strengthen their own family. As far as possible, owner-occupied dwellings should be owned. It's a safe investment, which also gives home security and insight into how to manage property. I believe that the tax reform should be followed up by a thorough discussion of the charging system. In order to improve employment, it is important to increase the motivation of businesses to hire people. The Coastal Party will take the initiative to lower the most burdensome charge on Norwegian labour, namely the employer’s fee. At the same time, efforts should be made to limit non-productive and centralising industrial investment. This can be done by, for example: introducing an investment fee for new office buildings in Oslo. The coastal party believes that a necessary food should be exempt from VAT. It is for the benefit of consumers and also of the Norwegian agricultural industry. Then I must say a few words about the shipowners from this pulpit. Shipowners live in an international society and have international competition. Then it is important that they have framework conditions that enable them to compete in the same way as others who compete with them. If they don't get out of here. They leave Norway because they cannot participate if they do not have the same framework conditions. But we have to distinguish between the shipowners and the freighters. The freighter goes on the coast, and they only have Norwegian crew. They are exposed to competition from foreign ships with foreign personnel who do not have a work permit or residence permit. So you have to distinguish between the shipowners and the freighters. It's okay that we demand zero tax for those who are employed - but they have to compete with others! Should they fly out to allow the Norwegians to land and hire foreigners? Is that what we want? They will have to, because the aliens on ships on the Norwegian coast do not even have a work permit or residence permit. We're talking about the infrastructure on the coast. People work on these boats. We're talking about workshops, we're talking about electronics companies, we're talking about electricians, we're talking about the machines that are being delivered, we're talking about liferafts, we're talking about lifesaving equipment, we're talking about pharmacies, we're talking about Ship control, we're talking about the Maritime Directorate. Are we going to put all this down, and are we going to let the foreigners take it over? They must have predictable framework conditions. Those employed in these companies pay taxes. It must not be the sole responsibility of shipowners to contribute to society. If we limit the debate to just the shipowners, we're on the wrong track. There's a lot of people employed in these businesses. They must have framework conditions that enable them to continue to contribute to the big society. We don't have to make it so that they get away.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e886	Like all other politicians, I travel around Norway to meet people - local politicians and other people who are engaged in their communities. Then I often ask the question: what problems do you have here in the municipality, here in the village or in this part of the city? First of all, a lot of people answer that there's a lot of good things, that it's good to live in Norway, that it's a great municipality, that it's a great building, and that there's not so many problems. But to the extent that they point to problems, for example, it is. the lack of care for the elderly, the lack of staff in the hospital, the lack of stressful shifts and the lack of time for the elderly, the lack of money in school, the need to complete community schools, or the need for more hours of education that you cannot afford, or perhaps the need for a cheaper school leisure system. Then there might be someone who's worried that there's too little police, that the police guard is closed, and that there's too little patrol in the streets. Others express concern that we, for example: have too few treatment sites in the care of drug users, or we have too few offers to people with a minority background on Norwegian training or, for example, labour market measures to bring them into the labour market. Almost no matter where I travel in the country, you are concerned that there is too little money for transportation, for roads, for public transport, for road safety measures, for bicycle paths, for racial protection and what it might be. And a lot of places I meet people who would like to have some more money for research, for development, for investing in new projects, whether it's in fisheries, aquaculture, the marine sector or other exciting industrial development projects in Norway. I never meet anyone who says that the main problem here in the village is that the rich pay too much tax. That's why I don't understand that when you choose what to spend billions of dollars on in the next few years, you say that we're going to spend up to $20 billion -- because that's what it's about if we're going to eliminate the wealth tax and in addition implement the Right Law in terms of taxes, in addition to what's already in the tax notice. So we need tens of billions more than what has already been given, to reduce taxes first and foremost to the most prosperous people in Norway. I am at any time prepared to discuss a more sensible tax system - a tax system that contributes to more investment, to more predictable and sensible framework conditions for Norwegian companies. But it's completely possible to do without going into massive tax relief for the richest. It's e.g. the possibility of discussing lower taxes on wealth - a change, a change, a change in taxes on wealth - but then it has to be financed, as the Skauge Committee proposed and had models for. I'm not saying we're going to pick those models, I'm just saying you have to have an idea how this is going to be financed. If you do some relief one place, you have to be able to finance another place, so that you can maintain the income of the community together to finance all the unsolved common resources. It is precisely the willingness to tell how this is to be paid, which is totally lacking in the Government's tax policy. That is why this is a blind, unsocial tax haven, which is going to go beyond important Community tasks, whether it be road construction, police, care for the elderly or school. Somewhere this money has to be picked up. For a while, you can pick them up using more money from the oil fund, so use more of the oil revenue, as the government has done so far. But there is no lasting solution, because you spend more of the oil money, there will sooner or later be less money available in the oil fund to fund pensions and care for the elderly. It's just the context where the government has problems to recognize, and problems to do with. Then I hear that the Government is criticising the Advance Party for helping to keep the tax level high, because the Advance Party is pushing through increased expenditure on, for example. transportation and pensions. But then, of course, the government is in a significant position, that they recognize that there is a connection between public expenditure and the possibilities for tax relief. When one chooses tax relief, according to the government's own logic when they criticize the Advance Party, it becomes less money for common good. But the government does not dare to point out the common good that will suffer. You just send a bill forward in time, and so far you've covered it by increasing the use of oil money. The extra worrying thing is that the need for what we're financing together, what we're paying for through a sprawl layer that we call the welfare community, is going to increase. While there is no need for private consumption to increase in demand over the next ten years, there is a need to finance tens of billions of higher pension expenditure. There is a need to finance many thousands of new hands in the care of the elderly to only maintain the current level of care for the elderly, and there is a need to invest in research or, for example, in the care of the elderly. security in the form of police and other Community solutions. We need more community, not less. That's why it's wrong to promise billions of dollars in tax bills.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e907	I also travel around the country talking to people in different industries and institutions. I still have the benefit of meeting a single person who says he misses the Labour Party's tax-increase policy. On the other hand, I meet some people who say that what the Government has done with tax relief has worked. It seems investment-friendly to remove the investment tax, and we are now facing a situation where the country's economy is actually growing more than in the countries around us, and unemployment is falling. The government will continue to reduce taxes and taxes, and we will reform the tax system. With the attitude that is now on the table, we've got a majority to move forward with the next step of tax reform. It is the majority of the most important declarations of principle. It was not initially the government that had agreed to promote a message. We had agreed to go straight on a proposition, but it was a majority of the Storting who wanted a message. That is why we have presented it, and I have to say that we are well on track in relation to the corresponding treatment of the tax return at the beginning of the 1990s. In the examination of the 1990 tax communication, there were also no broad agreements, but there was clarification by a majority in the vote. The truly tough struggle for the 1992 tax reform actually took place at the time of the 1991 Odelstingsproposition. So I look forward to it happening this time as well. We have gone through a number of alternative tax models in the report. We've been invited in many ways to say yes, there are alternatives to the one we've provided. But we believe that we have put forward the best of these. I note that not a single party launches its own alternative tax model in conjunction with any of the alternative models being discussed. That's why I have to say that saying that we're going to agree to our main option is to be very careful. Of course, there will still be disagreement on individual elements of fiscal policy in the future. It's natural, because it reflects political dividing lines. However, with the current treatment of the tax notification, the Government has been given the green light and the necessary clarification to further improve the Norwegian tax system. The representative, Mr Hageseter, was well aware that there could also be some uncertainty in relation to further processing, because in the meantime it must be a choice. Then I must say that tax reforms that would prevent the effects of elections, I do not know. I'm very glad I don't, because such systems don't exist. We probably have to live with the uncertainty that means that the voters have to say their own. I live with it, as it is called, with the greatest boldness, and I think in fact that the voters will give us confidence in 2005, as opposed to the tone I mentioned in the posts of the representative Hagesetter. The uncertainty involved is not least represented at the largest opposition batch. The Labour Party has not expressed any alternative model in this debate. As far as the tax level is concerned, I actually do not know what the Workers' Party means. We have implemented tax reliefs of up to NOK 20 billion. The working party has voted against large parts of these billions, but today it expresses its satisfaction with the level of taxation. Understand who it is who wills! In the case of marginal taxes, the Workers' Party is now an opponent of reducing it. In the last budget proposal put forward by the Labour Party Government in 2001, the following was said: "This conversion may give rise to the elimination of the split model in whole or in part, provided that it is combined with a reduction in the differences in rates between labour and capital." It's the Workers' Party now against. Understand who it is who wills! After his first speech, the rapporteur asked what he thought about housing taxes and property taxes, if they were to be made public, if they were to be made compulsory, if it were to be increased. I registered no response. So yes, I can emphasize that there is uncertainty about the tax in the future, but it clarifies people through elections, and so it is the Workers' Party that represents the greatest uncertainty in relation to what you actually mean. Just hanging up in the term "provenin neutral" in connection with a reform or a conversion does not give a response. What do you want to do with the tax tightening that's in the shareholder model? We simply link this to the fact that a tax tightening that is part of the shareholder model must be combined with relief in the taxes on wealth, so that entrepreneurs get better out. The working party is there without a reply. The greatest injustice in today's system is the great difference between the taxation of dividends on shares and the taxation of wages and salaries. It weakens people's general confidence in the tax system, and the Government's proposal actually corrects this fundamental injustice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e934	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e937	I noticed that the finance minister said that he never meets anyone who misses the Labour Party's tax policy. I might suggest that it can be related to what pressure you associate with, and which companies, including weddings, you frequent. Rather, the Minister of Finance attaches great importance to the fact that he is on the route. The tax notice is in the box, he will follow up the case. He has proposed a comprehensive reorganisation of tax deductions equivalent to NOK 6 billion. This applies to the deduction of trade union costs, to the deduction of age and disability, to the deduction of commuting and to the deduction of special costs of illness, to mention some. My question is: can we now expect that, after the reading in the Chamber today, the Minister of Finance will come to the Grand Duchy within a reasonable time and propose the removal of these deductions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e946	I understand you have to feel good in this country when the main interest of the press and some representatives is linked to weddings. But I'm going to answer the question. The answer to the question is no. I can't guarantee that I come up with a proposal to remove a series of deductions. What the government has promised is that we should go through the deductions, evaluate them and take a stand on whether there are more social ways of allocating resources than through deduction schemes. It is claimed in the setting, among others. that the liquidation of income deductions will exacerbate the distribution profile of the Government’s arrangements. That's not true. Self-declaration statistics, all available statistics in this field, show that there are consistently relatively more persons with high incomes than those with low incomes who use the special income deductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e955	I note that Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss is trying to make it something rhetorical fun that I have pointed out the considerable uncertainty in order to implement tax credits before the 2005 elections. My point was that then it's important that one get to carry out the most possible of the tax credits before this choice. I brought the Sem statement here. I don't think Per-Kristian Foss reads so often in it, at least it doesn't seem like it. It says that during the 2001–2005 downturn, one will carry out a total tax of NOK 31 billion. So there's $12 billion left over. My question to the Minister of Finance will then be: Can the Minister of Finance confirm that the Government no longer has ambitions to meet the tax pick-up in the Sem Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e964	I thought it was clear from the message that we aim to spend longer time on reaching this point. With the heavy spending pressure we've been subjected to by a huge majority, where the Progress Party has been an active part, and with the economic development we've been behind, we don't think it's realistic to implement $12 billion in relief over a year. But I've actually been so positive in everything I've said about the setting, that I've calculated that parties that are to remove, for example. the taxes on wealth, will also be to halve it. There is no very clear indication in the setting, and that is the Progress Party I am looking forward to. But I have believed that a party like the Advance Party would act so logically that it would support the Government as far as possible, in the direction of removing, for example. the value added tax on dwellings and other things. That you do not express this in the setting, but you have such unlimited confidence in the Government that you want to send the whole message back, we get to take as a compliment in these good times.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e973	I understand that the Council of State is offensive in its defense of a tax report that didn't see all the world a lot out of it. As far as I've been able to register in public, it's only the government itself that can see that there's anything here to boast of for the Government. The reality is that this is a significant achievement in one of the core areas of the Government. That the Government wants to go ahead with what they themselves have wanted to do, because the Government is free, regardless of what is in this setting. However, if you read that setting, it cannot be understood in any other way than the Norwegian press has understood it, and what the opposition in the Stortinget has understood it as, namely, a significant achievement in the main areas of the Government. I intend to challenge the Council of State in a small area on which there is not much focus in the debate. The major reform proposals have now been debated in Stortinget for several hours, but there is one thing that amazes me, and that is the reason why the Government has to remove the free-card limit for young people. This is a matter that has been little heeded in the position and little attention in the public debate, but based on what the Government has said for many years, and based on what is a general consideration of justice, I will ask the Council of State: what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e981	Yeah, say it. We have not made any proposal to remove the Youth Free Card System, so I do not know what the representative is asking about. If the representative, Mr Djupedal, thinks that this is the position of the Skauge Committee on which the Stortinge procedure is based, he is present in the wrong debate. On the other hand, in the distribution table that has been so much mentioned, we have continued to introduce the free-card limit for young people. So the representative is on the wrong ground in the wrong debate. The representative has also contributed to a tax reform debate with the expression "mageplask" - I have to say that the only point where the majority is in doubt in the vote is with regard to the protection model. But there the representative Djupedal has also admitted that with the model SV adds up, there will still be such a distance between marginal taxes on labour income and on capital income that it will provide significant opportunities for circumvention. So the one who's in the position to define his income as capital income is going to be much better. In fact, I think that our shielding model is much better, from a distribution point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e988	There is no possibility of a tax reform that inspires everyone. That's right enough, but someone other than the government has to be satisfied? It would be preferable to think that they were found in business when it comes to business with which they are justified. I have previously referred to this letter from the NHO, the Business Association, the Shipowners' Association and HSH that they sent us a week before we finished work, and that is called a last emergency call. It says that at least we have to eliminate the wealth tax on food wealth. Half of the taxes on wealth they don't want. The right spokesperson in the hall would show me that there was a lot of positive also in that letter, seen from the Government's side. He found a sentence, but it ended with a comma instead of a dot. Behind the decimal point, it says: "but there is no predictability to stimulate the creation, conversion and value creation in Norway." Does the Minister of Finance have one example, in writing, of a business organisation that is satisfied with the government and the government parties in connection with the tax reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1002	If one pursues policy by the method that excited calls from business organisations are the real quality stamp, I think that policy is not in sync. Indeed, a tax system applies to large and too small, to individuals as to investors, to different types of enterprises. It will never be such that one can carry out a tax reform that only arouses enthusiasm. I have registered that business organisations support the main features of the reform. They have not launched alternative models, but they want a faster drop in wealth tax than the Government has proposed. I have also registered that the Senterpartiet is a supporter of the fact that the property tax should only be removed for capitalists, not for pensioners and landlords. At least there won't be a better distribution profile of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1014	It's an old saying: Attack is the best defense. But I would prefer to ask the Minister of Finance another question. I don't think he should go for it, because I think it's time to ask that question. When they propose tax relief to the extent that here, but consistently fail to take a decision on or have an opinion on the discovery of this, when they outline that $8 billion is going to go away in the wealth tax, and that up to $6.3 billion is going to go away in the deductions, I would ask: What counteritems does this have? Is that the pension? Are there social security or social security components, or are the rules of the labour market to be further exacerbated? Then you get a tiger back that you shouldn't ask such questions! I would like to ask the question again: What reductions are to be made? What counterposts does this have? I expected that the message had outlined more. It is a reduction of welfare services in our society and of security. Then you also ask questions about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1023	This is a communication on tax reform. It's not a collection of three or five annual budgets. The representative himself has been involved in politics for so long that he will remember the 1992 tax reform. The news that came in 1990 contained nothing about the discovery of the billions that were then promised in relief. The Labour Party, of course, used its budgets in retrospect, after the government change from 1992 onwards, to explain how the 5 billion DKK of tax reform was to be covered in relief. So do we. But I record that the Workers' Party over the years is in a way understood by the tax reliefs that the Government is carrying out at all times. I remind you that we have now implemented some reliefs in the order of magnitude at the base of NOK 20 billion. The Labour Party has voted against a substantial part of it, but is now satisfied with the level of taxation as well. I also see hope for the Workers' Party in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1030	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1033	The government has rightly received a lot of criticism in order to mix tax model issues and tax level issues in the communication submitted. Of course, it has made it more difficult to get a constructive debate on the model, when a number of proposals for tax relief have been incorporated in the communication. At the same time, there are little concrete aspects to the structure of the bet and questions about the level and not least the deduction, which means that we have a position to relate to where very little is explained, and where the government - although today it is trying to pretend that you are not concerned - should take on board the clear signal from the Storting that there is no agreement to gather a majority on many of the important pieces of the message. What permeates this message is a dogmatic belief that tax havens will create growth and prosperity. It makes it a document that is largely historyless. We live in a country that in many ways is an example of the opposite. This is because a relatively high level of taxation can lead to increased productivity and prosperity, because making distribution and prioritisation subject to democratic decisions is effective and sensible. In the debate on tax policy, we also see internationally a number of researchers and others who increasingly question these adopted desktop theories that the level of taxation is so destructive to the efficiency of the economy and that more and more points to the positive relationship between a high level of well-being and productivity. However, one of the prerequisites for such a relationship is that we have a broad and fair tax base. Recently, it focuses on a significant threat to this effect, namely the problem of large groups belonging to multinational companies taxing zero or close to zero in Norway and in a number of other countries where the level of taxation is relatively high. Researchers point out that a possible reason for this is so-called internal pricing, i.e. that profits are moved from Norway to countries with a lower tax level. The report that has now been presented by researchers at BI is dramatic in this way, and makes it even more strange that this issue is not addressed at all in the communication. You've just gone through two branches here. In the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, industry and retail, a tax loss of 800 million is estimated. kr. If this is something close to being right, when we take the big companies into the picture, we'll talk about a tax loss in Norway of several billion dollars. There is, of course, something that not only creates gaps in public finances, which is a problem in terms of financing the common good, but it is also a major problem for Norwegian business because it creates a distortion of competition and a clear disadvantage for the Norwegian companies that are going to compete with foreign owned companies. In this sense, it is incomprehensible to us that neither the Government nor the majority have used this opportunity to ask for a case to be brought back where we can discuss what measures can be taken against this. We have a law in Norway that makes it possible to appreciate companies that are believed to have transferred values abroad in this way. But we need to start a work that allows us to identify the extent to which this is actually practice, so that the law can be used. I would like to say that although there has not been a majority in favour of commenting on this in this position, it is not prohibited for the Government to take its own initiatives in this regard, and I would strongly urge the Minister of Finance to do so. In addition, I would like to say something about the reliefs that are not in the setting. The government could easily propose different tax reliefs that would improve the strongly unsocial distribution profile contained in the Communication. In this respect, it is alarming that the Government will once again leave some of these simple options to be used, for example. by the fact that you now appear in the setting as the last friends of the document fee, and that once again you will not say anything concrete about the promises you have made about an increased credit card limit. So, on the contrary, it's not like you're taking any distance from the proposal of the Skauge Committee to remove the entire free card, which would be a significant lifting break. And then we'll see where we end up in this process. Of course, it's important to take a positive look at life. I understand that the government parties want it, but all this talked about great support, when one has failed to gather a majority at the point by the point, does well that there may be a need for an ever-small "reality" check.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1052	The tax system is an important hub for achieving many important objectives, including: to stimulate business, to generate income for important welfare measures and to smooth out differences. In the debate today, there have been earnest efforts to spread uncertainty about this important message. But the fact is that there is broad support for an important principle in the tax returns from the Government. There is now a significantly higher level of non-discrimination in the case of taxes on dividends and income from employees. There is a strong order from a former doctor to terminate the sharing model. This is provided by a combination of operator model, shielding model and exemption method. There is broad support here for the principle. A few of these models should be looked at more closely, but there is no obstacle to the completion of the split model. The proposal on, inter alia: the shareholder model is closely linked to a reduction in the property tax. I have not perceived it as a resistance in the Stortinget to the reduction of property taxes, rather the opposite. The form of treatment to which it is submitted, first of all to get a big message that discusses them, and then to the proposition that comes to the details, provides a means of recording when it comes to and affects how one will do this, both from the political opposition, from the business community and from the professional community. When there is such a possibility, one still has two options. One can enter a constructive dialogue and try to influence what's going on, in a positive way, but it's not illegal to escape from this possibility and hide inside a small, limited area consisting of rhetoric and other elements. But my main point is that there are unfinished, detailed models that are presented in this message. There are also incompletely designed tables. It comes in the next round, as the propositions come. I am pleased that a joint committee is focusing positively on the basic fund evidence’s position, as a good and real alternative as funding for savings banks. To sum up: We are glad that the setting shows that there is really a broad connection to the main entries in the tax messages from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1069	After today's debate, at least I have to review my understanding of the concept of broad agreement. As government parties have practiced that term today, it represents something new in this hall. The tax system we have and we're going to have has three important functions to fill. First, it will finance our common well-being through revenue to the public. It shall further contribute to the efficient use of the resources of society and shall also redistribute and balance differences in income and wealth. The government’s proposals in the tax communication fail in two of these areas. Firstly, by providing 12 billion dollars in tax credits, the Government's proposals would weaken public revenue and thus reduce the possibility of ensuring good pensions, good care for the elderly and a good school, i.e. weaken Community solutions. Secondly, the Government's proposal would bring great tax relief, first and foremost to those who have the most from before, and thus contribute to less redistribution, no more. That is why the Workers' Party has called these proposals a double unsocial one. That is also why we are opposed to such proposals. The social profile of the Government's tax policy is simply unacceptable. Both the elimination of taxes on wealth and lower top taxes benefit the high income groups - the higher the income, the more tax relief. At one point we agree with the Government. This applies to the reintroduction of dividend taxes. The Workers' Party was known to have introduced dividends tax, and Bondevik II removed it, and then to propose it again - quite another model - but with the effect of introducing taxes on the income from shares. This gets our support. The actuarial model, as it is called, involves a fairer taxation of income, because the same income is taxed more equally, whether it be labour income or capital income. On the other hand, we do not agree that such a dividend tax requires great tax relief for the very highest income groups, as the Government believes. On other points, the proposals on taxation of foodstuffs are so vague and incomplete that they cannot be adopted at all. Therefore this message has also been called the mountain that bore a mouse - rightly. Another unclear point is the question of which deductions the Government will remove. What's not unclear is that the government, through what it calls clean-up, will remove deductions from the tax system equal to NOK 6 billion. So there's little help in increasing the minimum subtraction by about the same amount. It's giving with one hand and taking with the other. But we can't hear what's going to happen today either. Who's going to pay? If the trade union deduction goes away, it's the special deduction for age and disability, it's the commuter deduction, it's the fishing deduction, etc.? That's a big unanswered question even after today's debate, that's a well-kept secret. But in any case, this will undoubtedly affect the incomes of ordinary people. The tax message we are discussing today cannot be called a tax reform. It is a series of proposals for tax relief that go primarily to those who have the most from before. In today's debate there is little to be clarified, despite the Government Party's protests that there is broad support here. The government's gambling on a bit of a majority here and a bit of a majority there gives a lean result. I have to say that the parties to the government have never made any attempt at a comprehensive political solution either. But then the government's political line is not to have any line, but to wing forward. Unfortunately, this does not give any particular predictability or direction in policy, and it is a major problem for all who are dependent on predictable framework conditions. This is not only true in tax policy. Several fresh things could be mentioned, such as shipping policy and Santa Claus. But these are only the voters who can clean up, by ensuring a majority for a new and manageable majority rule at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1088	It is quite remarkable that both the Labour Party parliamentary leader and the party vice-president can make a five-minute speech on a new tax reform without taking the word enterprise or value creation in their mouths for a single time. Jens Stoltenberg has obviously been travelling and found out that people are concerned with well-being. Of course, people are concerned about well-being! Of course, people are busy with hospitals, schools, police and hospitals! But it's not like the money's growing on trees. It's actually so that the values have to be created before they can be shared. When the Workers' Party was standing on its own legs, Jens Stoltenberg talked about creating to share. But now that the Workers' Party is leaning against its two socialist comrades, we're talking exclusively about distribution. If the Workers' Party gets it as they please, by increasing taxes both for individuals and for businesses, the result is that jobs are taxed out of the country. This undermines the very foundation of the welfare society, and then there will be less money for health homes, schools, health, etc. We get a fairer and simpler tax system. We get a tax level that will make working more profitable, that will keep people more of their own income, that will promote value creation and well-being, and that will strengthen Norwegian private ownership. The conclusion of this debate and after the vote is that the Government can carry out the reform in accordance with the plan set out. At no significant point does the Government get the thumb down from Stortinget. Our ambition has always been to get broad support for the changes in the systems of the reform, and we have. I understand those who had hoped for the broad agreement, where we could bind the Workers' Party to the tax burden and the Progress Party to the system changes. But I believe that everyone who has listened to the debate today, and to both Jens Stoltenberg's and Hill-Marta Solberg's rhetoric, will understand that not even ten would be able to get the Workers' Party to become completely necessary tax reliefs. This means that the 2005 elections will determine whether we will get a government that increases taxes or whether the Centre-Right government will continue its programme for lower taxes. It is not new that it is a choice that determines the level of taxation and the tax system. We had a socialist government that introduced dividend taxes, and we have a government that has removed it. It is not a consequence of unforeseeableness, but it is a consequence of living in a democracy. I understand the representative Hagesetter when he says it would be "a terrible accident" if we got a socialist government that increased taxes. I fully agree with that. But tax reform cannot end a choice. No matter how many taxes we had removed during this period, it will always be so that a socialist government could reintroduce the same ones. The tax reform is not a menu where you can pick the pieces you like. The system changes and tax relief are interrelated and, in total, a response to the challenges faced by the tax system, including: in relation to the EEA Agreement and in relation to the injustice inherent in the fact that the tax on labour is significantly higher than the tax on capital. If we are to remove the divisional model, the marginal tax on higher and medium incomes must be reduced. In order to create a good distribution profile and to stimulate more people to work, the tax on lower incomes must be reduced. If we are to introduce the so-called shareholder model, the wealth tax must be escalated, and that is a prerequisite for the government parties to be able to introduce the so-called shareholder model. For us, it's an objective to strengthen Norwegian private ownership, and then we have to get the total tax on capital down. Otherwise, it remains to be heard what the Workers' Party actually believes when they ask for an investigation to see property taxes, property taxes and housing taxes together. I hear that when the representative Nordtun is going to argue why it is necessary to see it in context, he argues that in other countries they have significantly higher property taxes than we do. Yeah, but say it, then! If it is the case that the Workers' Party wishes to introduce a State property tax in Norway, it must be said to the voters. I hear Jens Stoltenberg says that if you want to reduce the wealth tax, you have to introduce a government property tax. Yes, so say that the Workers' Party wants it, and don't hide it behind a new investigation to see these things in context. We've already done that! We have the Skauge Committee, and we have the government investigation. For my part, I think that the Workers' Party should also report cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1115	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1118	The unfortunate thing about this is that we get a debate where the tax system and the tax level are mixed together. There is a broad consensus that it would be desirable to have a business tax system that could make the sharing model unnecessary. There is also broad agreement on the importance of reducing the difference in marginal taxes on labour income and investment income. I also think that there could be a broader basis for consensus on the location of property taxes in our tax system if the Government had followed up the board's recommendation to see property taxes, housing taxes and property taxes in the context. This has not been done by the Government, and it contributes to the strongly unsocial bias that would result from the Government's proposals. The Labour Party believes that it is important that we have a tax system that contributes both to maximisation of value and a fairer distribution and that can finance good, common welfare services. These objectives cannot be dismantled. Therefore, it is also gratifying that there is a broad consensus to reintroduce tax on share income also on the part of the recipient, and a tax model for limited liability companies that makes it possible to abolish the share model for them. It is announced in the notice that the excise duty is now due. In this area, the level of taxation has increased during this period. Although some charges have been reduced, others have been increased and a new fee introduced. Excise duties amount to a significant amount of 70 billion kroner if we disregard VAT. The working party agrees that there is a need to review excise duties, primarily in order to deal with charges that are distorting competition and that have no reason other than to obtain income. Sectors with different excise duties have asked for an overall review. I think it would have been useful, not least to anchor any changes in the industries affected. The experience gained from the Government’s efforts in the revised national budget to remove the single packaging charge for beverages confirms such a need. Here the industry was very divided, but one thing was agreed: if it should be done, don't do it now. After all, it is well done to find the tax that divides the business that is affected when it is first proposed to remove a tax. In fiscal policy, there is likely always to be a distinction between the right and the left of the policy. It would have been desirable if this distinction could be limited to taxation and balancing. It should be possible to reach a broad agreement on the tax system. When it was not possible this time, the government had to take a great deal of responsibility for it, when they presented a communication on new billions of tax reliefs that would reinforce the policies we have now seen: the greatest relief for those who need it the least, while those with lower and medium incomes would have to cover the reliefs through fewer deductions. These are traditional right-wing policies, which need to be supported elsewhere than by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1141	There is no impersonal value creation. All the values we have for investment and consumption are initially created by the work of individuals. Divided values have given up capital, which contributes to further value creation, again in combination with the work of individuals. When I say this now, it's because after today's debate it seems like the left side, here represented by the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, that values for consumption and investment belong to the public, and that it's the generosity of the public that makes Norwegian households get money at their disposal. It is therefore logically wrong for them that the public system provides tax havens. It is public that gives individuals greater or lesser income. The level of taxation is one of the most important choices in a modern society. The same applies to the question of whether our generation can allow itself a consumption that there is no reason to expect our economy to allow, for the sake of future generations. These two relationships raise a significant border between the right and left sides of Norwegian policy and between the Right and the Advance Party. So the right considers that each generation should leave to the future a richer and more sustainable society. It is difficult to see that the Progress Party can achieve this with its low tax-- or preferably away with tax-- and high consumption model. Right-wing believes that the dissemination of values and a decentralised decision-making model are the best guarantee for a good society. Power concentration should be avoided as far as possible. It does not seem that the left side is necessary, with their desire for an inclusive public sector. In addition, the right has great confidence that the individual, the individual household and the individual enterprise make good and long-term decisions that benefit social development. We believe it's proved in countless ways that it's not that every penny that's been added to a family is a crown that goes for unwitting consumption, perhaps rather the opposite. We believe that the individual person has the ability to make good decisions for himself and his surroundings, and we don't believe that the state always knows what's best for the individual. We don't want a society where the diversity and the ability to choose differently disappears. Then freedom disappears too. We cannot distinguish between economic and political freedom. That's why this is some of the reasons why we probably want a lower tax burden than the left-hand side, and also because we have a different ideological starting point for who the value creation of a society belongs to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1158	The representative Jan Tore Sanner expressed here that a dividend tax requires that the property tax should be reduced. It sounds very good, and that is what the Progress Party has said, that if we are to go in and assess an improved profit tax model at all, we must assume that we have clear commitments and certainty to reduce the tax on wealth. We also drove this forward in negotiations, but there was the conclusion that it was not the government parties willing to go in for it. That's why I think it's pretty amazing that Jan Tore Sanner here claims that the dividend tax assumes that the property tax has to go down. What happens if we get a socialist majority is, of course, that they get confused with the fact that here the Right has proposed a dividend tax, here the Right has proposed a broader basis for property tax, and then, of course, it will be proposed again. On the other hand, in the case of the other tax reliefs to which the Right and the Government parties have submitted, they are not likely to be implemented at all. So that's the gloomy view here. Therefore, it was very important for the Progress Party to press forward that we had to have a significant reduction in property tax already in the current growth period, if it were to be appropriate to support an improved dividend tax model. With regard to what Heidi Larssen had to say, it is quite clear that we do not see the big problem of reducing the government budget surplus by providing tax relief. This because we believe in the dynamic effects, we believe that tax incentives will generate growth in the economy, that will lead to the creation of value that will make it cost in year 1 will be a lot more than it costs in year 10. I also think that the Right should now decide whether they believe in the dynamic effects of tax relief, or whether they don't believe in these effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1167	In this matter, the government is given a clear majority to reduce the level of taxation in Norway by DKK 12 billion and a broad commitment to improving the tax system in all key areas of the reform. For the Right, it is important that the house tax is removed. The tax on living in owner-occupied dwellings is seen as quite meaningless for most owner-occupiers. This tax is calculated independently of people's income and ability to pay, and is therefore, in many cases, unsocial and unreasonable. In addition, the housing tax is unfair because there are very large differences in the valuation of the tax base. The fact that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will now oppose this, and ask for an investigation of new methods of taxing people's houses and homes, confirms an important difference in Norwegian policy. Today’s attitude and debate show that no one should be in doubt that the left side is ready to dump a large tax bill in the prison of Norwegian housing owners, if they are given the chance after the 2005 elections. The government also agrees to remove and reduce the taxes on wealth. This is important for business. But we should not forget the thousands of pensioners and the elderly who each year experience that the government taxes the return on their deposits by more than 100 pst. In reality, the wealth tax leads to a gradual confiscation of savings to people. Pensioners are particularly affected because they are in an age group which, for natural reasons, has less capacity for tax adjustment and to bear risks. I think the idea of removing the property tax exclusively for working capital, which some in the Workers' Party have thought highly about, but not got through for, is quite unreasonable. For the same reason, it is important to combine a reduction in the rate of property taxes with an increase in the bottom deduction as monks. It's worth saving for ordinary people too! The government also sees the impact of a sharp reduction in top taxes. Top taxes on ordinary labour income are unreasonable to many. Thousands of taxpayers are releasing top taxes with this proposal. This means that families get more freedom of choice and more well-being. To the right, this is an important breakthrough at a central point in our tax policy, although the proposal is also a clear prerequisite for the fair elimination of the sharing model. We've noticed that business wanted a wider majority to eliminate the wealth tax. There are no coincidences or political games that make this impossible. I sometimes wonder at the somewhat naïve optimism of some outside the political environment as to the possibility of getting the left side involved in improving the tax framework conditions for business. Nor is it a coincidence that this three-year government has reduced taxes and taxes by nearly DKK 20 billion, while the government of Stoltenberg increased taxes by DKK 12 billion only in 2001. Tax policy is one of the areas where the differences between the civil and the socialist sides are greatest. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party have categorically rejected the removal of house taxes, the removal of property taxes and the reduction of top taxes. For this reason, it is clear that the 2005 elections, regardless of today’s decision, will be a time of fate for both Norwegian business and Norwegian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1182	The representative, Mr. Hagesetter, was amazed that in my post I said that a tapering down of the property tax is a prerequisite for introducing the so-called shareholder model. This should not surprise the representative, Mr Hagesetter, because it is also stated in the tax report. For us, stepping down the wealth tax is linked to the introduction of the shareholder model, and it is simply because the government parties, like the Progress Party, are committed to facilitating Norwegian private capital. I am also positive about the signals given by the representative Hagesetter when he says that the Progress Party can assess an improved shareholder model if the wealth tax is escalated. I think that's a signal that we can take with us in the further work. Otherwise, I completely disagree with the representative Svein Roald Hansen when he says that it is unfortunate to discuss the tax system and the tax level at the same time. This is actually a necessity, because if we remove the divisional model, we have to ensure that the marginal tax on labour and the marginal tax on capital are about the same. We are therefore in the midst of a debate on the level of taxation. This means removing the divisional model requires cutting down the marginal tax on labour. That's why these pieces are connected. Just in the end: I registered that the Light Hill obviously had not got the Minister of Finance's clear word that the free card should not be removed. The Storing Message actually shows in the distribution profile - I can show the representative page numbers afterwards - that the credit card limit is within the Government's proposal, so there is no plan to remove this credit card.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1191	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1207	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3169]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1220	The size must then vote on the case No. 1-7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1466	In the course of the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 3, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4-7, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, 8 and 9, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party, First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "St.meld. No 29 About Tax Reform Sends Back to the Government." [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1496	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8 and 9, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: "The government is asking for the creation of a new action zone with personalised measures covering all municipalities in Action B, and for which a reduced rate of general tax is to be included." Proposal No. 9 sounds: "The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for exemptions from taxes on wealth on economic assets based on a delimitation similar to the Swedish model in the context of the 2005 state budget."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1516	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7 from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: "The Government is asked to review the setting of depreciation rates for operating assets in order to bring them into line with actual impairment and lifetime. Possibilities for geographically differentiated depreciation rates shall also be explored."; Proposal No. 5 sounds: "The government asks the government to introduce a separate tax deduction for single residents. The size and limits are presented to the Storting for further decision." Proposal No. 6 sounds: "The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a time-limited reduction in company tax and dividend tax as instruments for conversion municipalities and other areas with a particular need to attract capital in order to create new jobs." Proposal No. 7 sounds: "The decision asks the Government to investigate how a system of differentiated risk supplements to the protection rate can help to ensure equity access to forms of business with additional ownership risk, business start-ups, and companies or projects with additional risk or high societal benefit."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1546	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: "The decision asks the Government to come back, during the autumn of 2004, with a detailed explanation of how restrictions on the exemption method can be made that eliminate or reduce the possibility of undesirable adaptations." Proposal No. 2 sounds: "The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with an overall review in which the property tax, the property tax and property tax are assessed in the context. The investigation must also include the basis for the assessment of the housing tax."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11.ana.ud1156e1600	There is no record. Before we finish the meeting, the President will draw attention to the fact that there will be a very short public meeting. We save time with ringing if Odelstingen's members remain seated, so that the meeting can get started as soon as possible.
