ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e31	There are children who have lived here in the country most of their lives, but still do not dare to throw the wrapping on the car or the doll they got for their birthday, because the uncertainty as to whether they are sent out is still great. It's best to take care of the boxes. At Vestlandsheimen in Bergen, some children started the group ‘Look and listen to us’ after living at the reception for up to five years without any solution being found for them, and where the membership of Norway became stronger for every day that went. The recipients are intended to be temporary residents and are not provided with or intended to be permanent residents, especially for children. Children in church asylum are probably in an even more difficult situation. The question is, what does this do to these children? Clearly, this has negative effects on the children involved, and over time it can develop into something much worse. Many concerns have come to all of us who are working on these matters, and probably to many others as well. It's people who live and work near these kids who report. They see the problems in close proximity and experience what is happening in everyday life. That's why they're saying from. Therefore, it is a good day when the Stortinget today treats Innst. S. No 210, on measures for the children who have been in this country for more than three years, but where the situation remains unresolved. Such things are difficult. There are many reasons why some children stay for a long time, stay in church asylum for many years, or live elsewhere without having a legal residence permit. I do not want to go into the many reasons why they have ended up in such a situation, but it is necessary to do something now. There are a lot of parties here that have helped to make it that way. But now it's important to put a line over what's happened. Now the children are going to the driver's seat. It is therefore gratifying that a joint municipal committee is in favour of these children having their case re-examined. It is important to clarify that it is not in the decision that this is an amnesty, but there is a new procedure, based on the situation of the children, not on parents. The child’s time of connection to Norway shall be emphasised. Three years in a little child's life is a lot. A rough assessment shall be provided, with a strong emphasis on human considerations. The main reasons must be linked to the needs and rights of children in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Norway ratified the Children’s Convention in January 1991 and has since been obliged to comply with it. The Foreign Affairs Act also provides for the application of the Foreign Affairs Act in accordance with international rules by which Norway is bound. By letter of 27 April 2004, the Council of State delivered an opinion on Document No. 8:50 for 2003-2004 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. In the letter was the willingness to solve anything very small, despite the fact that the UDI has recommended the state council to do something with the children who have been in reception for a long time. It is therefore positive that the representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party in the Grand Duchy put their feet down. I would like to pay tribute to the President-in-Office. The decision taken today is a one-off act. Document No 8:50 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left also contains a proposal for a general pension scheme. It was going too far and would have had many unfortunate pages, where children could have been used cynically to get a residence permit here in the country. However, the Committee would like the Government to clarify this issue of the long-term reception of children and families, and to return to Stortinget with it as its own matter. Today, we are going to be happy first of all on behalf of the children who can get a solution to their problems, which they have had for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e54	Let me first say that this is a matter with a long history. It is also a matter that will not be closed here today, but the decision that a unanimous enlargement will take will involve new opportunities for the people involved in the matter. Many have been involved in the fate of asylum-seekers, and both political parties and individuals have made a strong commitment. No one will claim that it is good for children to stay at reception for several years. No one would disagree with the fact that in such a life situation, children can cope with mental problems, such as insecurity, insomnia and fear. They have been abandoned to an adult and unintelligible world. The question has been whether we should take social responsibility for the asylum-seekers and allow them to stay in Norway. Had this question been easy to answer, Stortinget had concluded earlier. When the case has been difficult, it is because there are several considerations to take, considerations that can intersect. On the one hand, consideration is given to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the European Convention on Human Rights and other conventions to which Norway has acceded. On the other hand, consideration is given to the institution of asylum, which is also enshrined in international conventions. In addition, consideration will be given to the immigration policy we want to pursue. Pursuant to Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the best interests of the child shall be of fundamental importance in all decisions directly affecting children. This is firm. We all agree. There is one fundamental point, not that it should be the only consideration. Of course, it would not be practical, nor in this case. It is common practice to also consider other considerations and make an overall assessment. It is also possible to place decisive emphasis on other considerations when the situation so requires. UNE has the right to take decisions in accordance with the Children’s Convention. It's a fact, whether you agree or not. The question is how heavy an emphasis should be placed on immigration policy considerations. The right is very concerned about protecting the institution of asylum. If a general amnesty were given, an increased influx of asylum-seeking families without a real need for protection would be at risk. Government policies have significantly reduced the number of groundless asylum seekers. A new increase in the number of groundless asylum seekers could result in a hollowing out of the institution of asylum. In addition, our experience with the previous 15-month rule suggests that one should be careful to make general arrangements that may result in a profit-making training or withholding relevant information. It is not in the best interests of children that the time spent in reception is longer than is necessary. Children shall not remain in reception for a long time and the authorities shall be responsible for minimising this time. But here too, parents have a clear responsibility to cooperate with the authorities. In this particular one-off case, the Right wants to be with the rest of the Storting in order to find a pragmatic solution to a matter that has many aspects and many consequences, not least for the people involved. Asylum children and their families who have lived in Norway for more than three years and have received a final rejection of their application before 1 July 2003 are now subject to a new procedure. It implies a new chance to try the matter again, in the light of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the situation of the children and other human considerations. Finally, I would like to state that this matter is, and must be, a one-off arrangement. The government has put in place a wide range of measures to improve immigration policy. At the same time, I welcome the fact that a unanimous committee underlines the importance of a rapid procedure that prevents children from being given undue length of time to receive, and also the rapid implementation of the decisions taken. I attend to the government's further work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e71	I will not add up to an article that will create any further debate on this matter. I think the matter is too important for that. But I will immediately be allowed to clarify one thing, and that is the outcome of this case after a unanimous committee made its decisions. In particular, the press and the media presented the Committee's position as if the Committee and the Stortinge would give amnesty to children in reception, which I think was very unfortunate. I saw the various reports on television, and the fact that children were then given false hopes and cheered around in the quite country because they had stayed, I actually think that they have actually been in reception for so many years. I will also be allowed to state that the Progress Party has not given any amnesty in any way. I have received many enquiries as to why the Progress Party has joined this setting. Of course, it's simply because we see that in many receptions there are tragedies going on with regard to children. Although I could stand on the platform here and make a five-minute speech, pointing out the critical value that the majority of the majority in the United Kingdom have faced in terms of asylum policy, I am not going to do so. In this case, the party of progress will try at best to get an understanding that we need to find solutions for them. The 60 children mentioned here. It may be, I have said, that for some of these children it would actually be best – both for the children and for the family – that they had permanent residence in Norway. But I think for the majority of these children the best solution would be that we now got a political clarification here in the house, in the government and in the UDI that these children with families must immediately be sent out of the country. Both of these clarifications think I would be the best thing for the children, and that's what this is all about. We in the Progress Party are now willing to join in and resolve the situation that has arisen in Norwegian reception. When we now operate with between 18,000 and 19,000 people in reception, it goes without saying that we have several issues that need to be solved. We have also discussed this earlier today with the management of the foreign field. We have several issues that come into the cold water, which go on the management of the foreign field, the foreign legislation, the law of introduction, etc. I believe that the political environment now needs to find solutions that, not least in the first place, are aimed at resolving the situation in the receptions. The Progress Party has been ready for this. But we are also, of course, willing to find compromise solutions on these challenges. We have gone so far as to say that we are willing to use great resources to clarify the situation of these people who are in reception. Others who have made contributions here have pointed out the issues that stand up to each other when we do such things like this. Therefore, it is important that this is a one-off event, and that there will be no permanent political solution for that type of thing, which will put pressure on the institution of asylum and perhaps lead to more people using children to stay in Norway. We have several issues related to children that I also want to mention, which we have to focus on. This applies not least to all the children who disappear from Norwegian primary school, and to all the children I have registered that the Council of State is also very concerned about, who are simply placed and abandoned by their parents in Norway and in other countries in Europe. There are many things about this that I think the Storting should focus. That's what we'll get in the future. I just want to conclude by saying that there's no kind of amnesty here. There I agree with the statements of the Council of State in relation to the suspension available. I should have actually made a proposal, but we have the opportunity left on Thursday. I want us to look at the settlement of refugees and asylum seekers in the context. I will present such a proposal to Odelstinget on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e90	The issue we are dealing with today is one of the most meaningful initiatives I have been allowed to participate in as a politician. This issue is not about numbers in an asylum seeker's statistics, it's about dispersing live kids and young people who, without wanting to do it themselves, and completely without choosing them, have been living for at least three years in a country in which they have not been born, and in which they may not quite dare to take their breasts to their new homeland, because the impression that a good number of politicians are creating in young people who have spent three years in asylum is that they are not wanted. I think we should think through what it does to a young person and a youth – even though they may have escaped most of their lives in some context – all the time to get feedback from us as a big community: you know what, you better just go home again, where you come from. We're going to take care of kids, and we're going to show kids what they're worth. This matter is also about the role of engaging in its own situation, and that it is useful to appeal to people's heart layers and perceptions, as the kids have done, who have been sitting on the Vestlandsheim and organized themselves in Seeing us, Hear us and get along with bishops, Save Barna and other people who talk the kids' case. The case is also about the seventh and last of all about making policies in a foreign field that has been empty of political struggles under the cover of the fact that there has been bureaucracy that governs. But it is, as we know from the previous debate, not right. I am very pleased that a unanimous committee on the one hand considers that families with children who have been in receipt for a long time must have the opportunity to have their matters reviewed, as it says in the Committee's position, second, that the deadline for re-application should be set until 1 July 2004, thirdly, that this should include both children and families with children living in and outside reception, fourth, that all families with children who have lived in Norway for more than three years will be covered by the scheme, the fifth, which all except for the Progress Party is on, is based on the assumption that the family and children covered by it, may be in Norway until their cases have been completed, and, sixthly, what is most important, says that a new treatment must be based on a shady assessment based on the children's specific situation, human considerations and the UN Children's Convention Article 3, which states that the best interests of the child should be not just a cause, but a fundamental consideration. I will challenge the Council of State in its contribution to answer whether she can guarantee that all of these things will be followed up. It's very important to us. In this case, it has already begun to enter notices that children have been informed that they will be expelled from the country, and that they have been refused their applications for permission to stay in the country until the case has been completed, i.e. without suspensive effect. I would like to have the words of the Council of State that all these points that the Committee has underlined here will stand firm. Many people have asked questions about what this document means. I thought I would briefly say two things about both the legal and the political effects of this. Legally, it is the preprocessor of the laws that is the most binding and binding in interpreting the laws. Furthermore, we have regulations that the department makes, and in addition to this, the post-work comes to the Stortinget. And especially in the case of a law like this, where there is so much discretion, the follow-up work of the Storting must be given absolute weight – not as heavy weight as the legal workers or the pre-workers, but there is no doubt that the Foreign Affairs Department and the Foreign Affairs Directorate cannot fail to see what it is The Storting has meant about this matter when we are now dealing with this issue here today. The political consequences are much simpler. It is such that the government has to deal with what a unanimous magnification thinks, and a unanimous magnification believes what is black on the white side of this matter. And then we have to see when the issues are dealt with, if we get a generous assessment, if we get an assessment that focuses on the children's specific situation. The government well knows that if necessary, it has the full opportunity to make a regulation that ensures that it follows up what is the Storting's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e103	The title of this debate must be: it will be useful. It is beneficial for young people to engage in their own situations, to benefit all the voluntary organisations that are concerned with a better future for some more in Norway, and to benefit from the initiative of large-scale representatives. Document No 8:50, from the SV and the Central Party, had the heading ‘Actions for children who have been in reception for a long time’. The intention was in the first place, but it is also quite clear in the document that it is also meant to be indebted to ‘others which, for various reasons, cannot be returned to their country of origin’. And I want to commend the case spokesman because she has shown a strong commitment to, as far as she could, finding a solution in accordance with the proposal. The center party would have liked us to have gathered in this room today about completely concrete and precise decisions from point to point, but it shouldn't be necessary when we have multiple comments and committee comments here to stick to. They will be taken into account, and I expect the Council of State to state how it intends to follow this up. So it is very good that it is clearly said who will be included. So there's kids both in and out of reception, and that means that these families that have an engagement around, whether they're in Suldal, or they're in the dead, get the chance to try their things again. It's black in white here: ‘The Committee assumes that all families with children currently living in Norway for more than three years will be covered by the scheme.’ I am very pleased that the Committee makes it so clear that the families and young people involved should be in Norway until the cases are settled. The case coordinator quoted from the committee setting what it called new moments. And that's right, that's the new moment when one here has a big paper that says that "a new treatment must be based on a generous assessment based on the specific situation of the children", that matters should be evaluated by a new case handler, and that the children should be heard. Unfortunately, representatives from the department have raised doubts as to whether there are new elements at all. I assume that the Council of State will clarify exactly that, so that there is no doubt in retrospect, and that she also says in what way she will announce the deadline that is now set to 1 July. This is a single decision. Therefore, it is also such that the setting itself contains two greps. One is what I've already mentioned, and the other is the "long-term" children who can still be sitting on reception. Here, then, the focus is both on faster procedures and on the fact that there is a country that cannot return with a possible refusal. The Ministry is asked to come back to Stortinget with an own assessment. Finally, I have to say that there is a cross of thought at this time when the government is ready to open up free movement of labour from new EU countries, that in our country there are families of children and individuals who have the ability to work, who are well integrated, but who are then rejected because they are from wrong countries. I hope that the Council of State will also take it into account in its further work on refugee and immigration policy issues. So she also has the ability to clean up something better than it's done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e123	First, I want to say that this is a matter that has engaged a lot of people in the Left, especially our peoples in the municipalities where these children now live. This was a topical issue at our March national meeting, where one expressed a desire to provide amnesty for children who have been in reception for more than three years. The starting point and the reasoning were the same as the one underlying this case and this setting, which at all important points is consistent. Left is very pleased. It is important and necessary to find solutions to this problem, which is becoming a humanitarian industry. A limited number of children has a very difficult situation, which cannot be expected. These children are innocent, but parents have used them to come here. Children are not allowed to suffer for it. Many of them have gone from being a child to being a youth on asylum reception, while the youngest do not know about anything other than that on an asylum reception in Norway. Many of these children are struggling with mental problems as a result of a life situation marked by a lack of security and fear of the future. At the time they have been in Norway, they have learned Norwegian, they go to Norwegian school, have Norwegian friends and consider Norway their home country. The left believes that the incorporation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in Norwegian Law must be taken seriously. Norway must always have a humanistic approach in matters relating to human life and health. Human beings are more important than systems. Of course, there is a dilemma in such matters. We must have rules that prevent good schemes from being abused and exploited and have consequences in the form of new human tragedy. Left of Norway has to accept more immigrants in the years to come. It's necessary and good for our society. However, this must happen within an orderly system of labour immigration, not through the erosion of the institution of asylum. We must also be able to accept more quota refugees than today. Equally full we must have limits, and it is important to have clear, fair rules that take care of humanity, justice and justice. We can't close our eyes again because someone will make the limits and maybe abuse the rules. Individuals will not comply with their decisions and refuse to return after refusal. But at the end of the day, it's the responsibility of the government to support the decision-making process, and that things don't last for years. The processing time for asylum applications is now a short one. The left expects that one will not get many more things where children will sit for several years without being able to plan their own future. The Committee's configuration underscores that this is a unique decision and not an invitation to counteract rejection by practice. It's the Left Unity in it. I have to say, it is easy for the Progress Party to say that with their asylum policies the problem had not arisen. Neither can the Progress Party send people home to countries that do not want to accept them. Nor could the Progress Party have escaped the dilemma in such matters if they had been responsible. But despite this, I would like to pay tribute to the Progress Party, which also concludes that there must be a solution for the children that this matter is now in force. It is simply very positive that a group store asks for a new handling of these matters. Children who have been in Norway for more than three years should not be thrown out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e144	Let me begin by saying one of the last things the committee's chairman said, that we should consider changes to these issues when it came to allowing people to become even if they had been denied an asylum application, so if they had come to work in Norway as asylum seekers instead of through immigration. I think the most important thing we do in relation to having a controlled immigration into this country is to take care of one thing, and that is that we keep a clear distinction when it comes to what the asylum institution is about: it's about protection. It is a matter of ensuring that persons in need of protection in this country are allowed to stay. If the institution of asylum is used as an immigration of labour, for which I perceive the Central Party is opening up, I must actually be allowed to say that I think we have destroyed the institution of asylum for the years to come. This is a difficult thing. It's a difficult thing because everyone can feel that you should be able to help children who have a hard time, and some of these children have a very difficult situation. But at the same time you have to keep some principles in claim. For me, individual treatment of matters is the most important thing in this area. The second is that we have to see that what we do in individual cases has consequences for the attitudes towards other things as well. There is no doubt that if Document No had been adopted, The 8-proposal as it existed, it would have been an invitation that more children would have come here and been here for a long time, and more children would thus have had a difficult fate in our country. That is actually the difficult consequence. So where we want to be kind, we can destroy a lot more kids in the years that come. We know this, for example. in relation to the problem of church asylum. Therefore, it is also quite important that we look at what is the basis for some cases taking a long time. The main reason is that you choose not to follow the message to leave the country. It is opposed to transportation, has repeated requests for conversion and is assisted by many groups who complain next time that it takes a long time for us to implement it. It will probably take a long time before the decisions are taken, it will take a long time before they can be implemented, and then there are many good helpers who will become bad helpers on this road. I need to say that, because I have been through and looked at some of these individual matters, and it is clear that one could have cut through from the Norwegian authorities and sent them out at an earlier time. But it would have been perceived as very traumatic even if you had done it at that time, and in some cases you have chosen to wait a little longer. I meet many such desires, such as having children finish school, etc. I would also like to stress that new elements in an individual case are related to this matter. One moment, of course, is how long you are. In children’s matters, there is a greater basis for assessing it than in adult-related issues. With regard to the proposal itself which is now crystallized through the treatment of the Storting, I note that there is a slightly different interpretation of it in what I hear from the pulpit. I would like to stress that in terms of what I saw in the media on the day the setting was given, I agree with Per Sandberg that this can do more damage than it helps, because you give false hopes to some people. You think the matter is settled, and still it is so that there is individual treatment of the foreign student on the basis of which it is based. We will instruct in line with the instructions we have already given, to put in place a special arrangement for those who have been here for three years, and how final decisions have been made for about three years. a year ago, asking for priority for these cases in the handling of the request for conversion. I would like to stress that everyone has the right to deal with their conversion issues. I would also like to have the proposal that we have before us if there are new points in relation to the matter. So what you're going to do in this case is give priority to these things and get them dealt with quickly. Then I have registered that you want a generous treatment, without specifying what a shy treatment is. We need to see if it needs to be fixed, and to what extent it can be fixed. With regard to the internal question of the form of treatment in the UN, it is explicit in relation to the law and current regulations that the negotiator chooses the form of treatment. We are currently looking at the question of what to do in that case in order to follow up the decision of the Storting. But at the same time, I want to say that there are some media statements in this context that make it difficult for those who work in the Foreign Study, because it feels like a relatively strong mistrust, when you manage the rules that actually exist. Sometimes you don't have to shoot at the pianist, you know that there might be political disagreement about how some rules actually are designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e172	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e175	On 28 May, after the decision was given, the Secretary of State of the Minister of State stated to the NRK Radio that the families of children who have been given the opportunity to have their case re-examined should not have their cases reviewed on a new basis. When we have heard the debate here today, all the parties in their speeches have clarified that this should be based on a different basis from what these applications have been evaluated in the past. State Secretary Cathrin Bretzeg also said in the same radio broadcast that the Stortinget does not have the opportunity to interpret the legislation for them. Then my question is to the Minister of State: does the Minister of State agree with his Secretary of State that it should not be assessed on a new basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e182	The basis of an asylum and residence case is the history of that child and the history of that family. In this way, there is no new basis for dealing with these matters, except that there is actually a story, where one moment is the connection to the country the longer you've been here. In many cases it will be so – we will also see in the church asylum cases where we instructed on a renewed, rapid treatment two years ago – that after a certain period of time, long stays are given weight. What is then defined as a new element or other basis — the basis is, in any case, as they are dealt with. No changes have been made to the law with the setting that comes from Stortinget here, and then the law and guidelines are given by the law that is there, that applies. The Children's Convention has been practised in all cases, and we have court rulings even after the Children's Convention was incorporated with primacy, which suggests that the interpretation used in Norway by the Children's Convention is a correct interpretation also from the point of view of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e192	The Council of State answered some of my questions in its previous row, too, but I would like to ask the Council of State about what the Committee has said about shyness of mind. The Council of State says that here the Government has to consider whether this needs to be treated properly. My question is, Will the Council of State then orientate the Storting, if it turns out that it is necessary? And if a generous assessment is to be treated properly, does that mean that this will not be a one-off case, but that it will be a general rule, which applies to all matters of that kind?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e199	I assume that this is a one-off assessment of these matters. If it becomes relevant to do this through a regulation, which I still have to have a legal review of – I have to be allowed to say that the word shy is not specifically legal guidance for the foreign administrators to deal with – there will have to be a regulation related to some matters in a single period. It is also a problem in relation to making that kind of control. We have to keep making those assessments. The most important thing I think is that the legal basis in these cases is still the individual case and the individual situation of the individual child. It is then very difficult to administer the regulatory treatment of what is shyness in such a context. This gives me reason to stress that it is not only the Council of State that is bound by the new Foreign Affairs Act in relation to being able to instruct the Foreign Affairs Administration, the Stortinget is also bound in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e208	I would just like to start by saying that the Council of State was injured to say that this new scheme will apply to all those who have lived in Norway for more than three years and have received a final rejection of the application before 1 July 2003. I would like to make it clear that the committee setting says that it should include as a minimum requirement all those who have been refused before 1 July 2003, and that we assume that this will apply to all those who have lived in Norway for more than three years. It was just the clarification that I thought it was necessary to do. But to the question: There is no doubt that for both the proposers and several of those who have spoken in this case, a shy assessment means that they have been in Norway for more than three years, in themselves, so much attention is to be given to the fact that there is an independent basis for becoming. The question is: can the Council of State guarantee that no children will be sent out of the country until they have dealt with their case?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e220	I refer you to the rapporteur's posts, which are completely in line with what I have now outlined as a scheme. It will include those who have been in Norway for more than three years and who have lived at reception or in another type of institution — in order to accommodate those who are now under childcare and other care — and who have final decisions that are older than in June last year. That's what I realized that a majority in the United Kingdom is behind, according to the opinions given so far in this debate. It is difficult, because it is obvious that in this debate too there is a gap in the underlying premises and their interpretation. I choose to relate to it, if there's no expression for any of the large-scale numbers other than that group. Those who apply and have submitted an application for a new treatment in UNE under such a scheme will not be sent until their case is resolved, because we must ensure that. But that doesn't mean a group of people like this. is not covered – and is a child – by this scheme, will not be issued during that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e229	First, a clarification: there is no disunity between the Council of State and me, between the Right and the Centre, when it comes to what is ‘protection’ and what is unemployed. We're on the line, so we don't have to spend any more time on that. So to what has now been said by the Council of State. Although there are shades in what is said by some, there can be no doubt that she has clear committee comments to stick to. Among other things, she maintains that this should be based on her children’s specific situation, not as it has previously been, ‘regarding’ the children’s specific situation, but ‘the starting point’ of the children’s specific situation, and that the children in question should be heard. If she found out in some areas that she needs a prescription, I assume she will have a dialogue with the Stortinget, and that she will also make sure to extend the deadline on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e236	Yes, the specific situation of children must be taken into account, first in relation to their need for protection and then in relation to their lack of protection, in relation to their individual humanitarian grounds, if any, for being here for strong human reasons. So let's see if these are concrete and clear comments. I've said what I mean. The term ‘serious’ is probably interpreted slightly differently by different groups in this context. It's important to say, it's an individual treatment. We haven't introduced any rules. I think it's pretty clear, even from the point of view of the general breast-feeding of this group, that there's not a rule that says that only you've been here for three years, you're going to be allowed to stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e243	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e248	I had to take the floor because, in my opinion, the Council of State is guilty of some misinterpretation of what is black in white in the setting. I would ask that the Council of State instead of in a way of basing its own assessments on who is covered by this scheme, base on the things that the Storting has clearly expressed. We say, among other things:\t\t You can ‘The Committee’ — and it is a unanimous committee — ‘positive to the inclusion of children and families with children living both within and outside reception, and will thus apply to asylum-seekers living in foster homes or child-rescue institutions, persons who have obtained a temporary work permit and are taking care of themselves outside reception or who, for other reasons, live outside the reception of asylum.’; That's what the setting says, and that's what the Storting means. The second is that the Committee considers it reasonable that, as a minimum requirement, it should include all those who have received the 'first refusal' contained in the vote. And so here, as the rapporteur said, there has been some disagreement as to whether it should be "first" or "final" rejection. However, the rest of the text has been agreed that the Committee considers it reasonable to include, as a minimum, all those who have received the first refusal before 1 July 2003, and the Committee considers that all families with children currently living in Norway for more than three years will be covered by the scheme. That's how Stortinget thinks it is. It's kind of the kids I asked instead if they wouldn't be sent out, and I expect the Council of State to really say, "Yes, they won't be sent out."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e262	I do not disagree with any of the interpretations that have now been given – with the exception of the very clear clarification given by the case rapporteur – and which I believe are representative of a majority in this House's position, namely that this scheme applies to those who have no more recent rejections than from June last year. It is of course that they must apply to have their case re-established in order to be guaranteed to be expelled from the country. It's also the only way we'll have an overview and control of it, because if not the old decisions are de facto.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e267	As co-rapporteur, I also wanted to take the floor, because I think the debate was marked by a discussion that has not captured the spirit that I have felt over the comments that came from the Committee, and the will that I perceive that the Committee and the rest of the Storting are actually quite in agreement. I don't share the opinion that the Council of State is assuming that there have been so many cracking messages here. I understand that here most parties have reported the same thing: a clear desire, a clear direction of where we will, which is the result of the strong commitment, the political struggle, which has been around the situation of these children, their own struggle and organisation. My common hometown and the Council of State have been the center of too much of this debate. There's been a strong cross-political commitment. Both my party and the local government party have been very committed to this. The Church and a lot of people have been involved in the situation of the asylum-seekers. I would like to pay tribute to the government parties and, in particular, to the case-rapporteur for the fact that, despite all the political prestige that for a while lay in this case – it was a very heated debate this winter – and came to a position that I see is very clear in the direction. I am a little surprised that we are going to have this debate on interpretation, interpretation of, for example. What a shy treatment based on the situation of children means. I think it's reasonably clear to most people who have been involved in this, what you think it should mean. I think we should end the debate in the spirit in which the rapporteur began it, with a clear commitment to, and then say that it will serve Norway and the Stortinge to the honour of meeting these children, and that is what this case is ultimately about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e281	I would like to take part in the debate or change my spirit. But there's one moment that I thought we should be confirmed, and that's how many of these could be. It is such that the case spokespersons have written a newspaper post, which I have seen in several newspapers, where she focuses on the young people who live in reception, and they are about. 60. They're easy to count. Per Sandberg said in his post that this was valid for approx. 60. Now, in the committee setting, we're talking about both the kids who are in reception, and those who live outside reception, either for some reason or for some reason, they've had to bust their way into a municipality that's just been built, not gone out or in church style. That's why I thought we should just clarify and also get the Council's confirmation that this applies to more than 60 in numbers. And as she herself said, it's when they reported that we have an overview of how many of these are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e289	Of course, we want to look at the information in the setting and base it on it. But I'm not sure if you mean here, for example. persons who may not have applied for asylum or who have remained 100 pst. illegal over a longer period of time in this country. Now I don't think there are a lot of families with children in that group at all, but we have to, of course, take into account what's going on about the personality in the setting. In terms of numbers, we agree that it's hard to be 100 pst. Make sure how many there are. At the beginning of February, 103 children lived in reception in Norway for more than three years. Of them, some had been allowed to stay and waited for the settlement. It's probably more than 60. And if we take those who are in other care situations, we have to assume that there are at least over 100 people who are being retreated. I want to say to the Audun Lighthouse that we can keep it in the spirit that is. But I have to say that the spirit that, among other things, The representative Lysbakken had when he talked about these things in the media, is dangerous to these children, because there is no check out, there is no amnesty given, it is individual treatment. And then when you give an interpretation that at least my party isn't behind, and that's not behind the Progress Party, and I don't think other parties are behind it, namely, that now everyone is guaranteed to stay, then we have to say that it's a little bureaucratic to go into this. And it's not given a general amnesty. The representative Lightbakken has not been passed on to the Document No. The 8th proposal he has put forward. And unfortunately, I think, there are some children who are going to sit back and feel weakened when the process is finished. They simply do not have cases where there is a basis for stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e300	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3066]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e308	We are then ready to go to voting on the issues that are listed on today's map. The President will repeat the call that it is an advantage when you come to the Chamber for voting, that you sit in your seat. Then it'll be easier for those who have to count.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e317	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate 6-hour trial and other work-time reforms that are flexible and take into account different phases of working life.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the necessary legislative changes to ensure that non-governmental organisations and institutions supported by the State are also required to summon at least one qualified applicant with a migrant background upon additions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e385	The President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against. - That's a good idea? Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e397	There is no voting theme in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e423	The President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against. And it's registered that the Workers' Party wants to do the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e446	Here the President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e458	It's a proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e464	That's right. There will be objections to the proposal of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the main subject of Foreign Affairs is composed of three principals, including the Director of the United Nations, a representative from the Government and one representative from each of the three largest parties on the Stortinget.’ [[UNE]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-2.ana.ud45e498	There is no record.
