ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e24	The development of snow whites was discussed in Stortinget on 7 March 2002, and a broad majority in Stortinget concluded on the development. The cost framework for the project when it was adopted was NOK 39.5 billion. The size was first briefed on possible cost increases for the Snow White project in December 2002. The increase was then estimated at NOK 5.8 billion, so the total cost of the project increased to NOK 45.3 billion. My predecessor, Einar Steensnæs, informed the Stortinget in June this year that an additional cost increase of NOK 4-6 billion was expected and a possible delay in the start-up of regular gas supplies of 6-12 months. At the same time, it was announced that it would return to Stortinget when the results of Statoil's assessment of costs and progress were available. Statoil’s updated estimate now shows a cost increase of DKK 6 billion, i.e. the total cost is NOK 51,3 billion, while the delay in regular gas supplies is expected to be 6 months. Statoil also says that the project still meets Statoil's return requirements, even if its profitability is now reduced. As the former Steensnæs State Council announced to the Stortinget in June, the Ministry held regular meetings with Statoil to be kept informed of developments. The Ministry briefed Stortinget on the provisional status of the 2004 state budget’s new age proposition. Statoil has briefed the Ministry on measures taken to ensure progress and to limit overruns. In June, Statoil explained some of the cost exceedances with problems with refrigerating compressors that did not meet Statoil’s requirements. This problem has now been solved. Statoil further discloses that they have implemented a number of actions at the main contractor and workshop, including: recruitment and better follow-up. These measures have led to better prioritisation of the work of the main contractor and thus to minor delays in deliveries to the construction sites. At the main workshop the measures according to Statoil have led to improved working conditions and easier access to the lighter, where the processing plant is built, which in turn has resulted in an increase in weekly workload at the yard. Although the measures have been effective, Statoil emphasises the need for careful follow-up in the further process. Statoil states that the main experience gained from the Snow White project is that work in the early phase of a project needs to be concentrated and even greater resources added than what has been done here. Statoil underlines the importance of having a more conscious relationship with technical maturity in order to better understand the scale of work and thereby more realistic plans. Statoil further underlines the importance of avoiding changes in the design base in the course of the design process. I record that Statoil has reorganised its project activities to ensure better quality control and adequate maturity before the projects are approved. Statoil has also established a new business area to enhance the focus and development of project implementation competences. It is unfortunate that the Snow White project is delayed, and that the expansion is much more expensive than the underlying thing when the Storting approved it. Snow White is a big and complicated project, with elements of new technology that are very demanding to plan in detail. Exceedances of this magnitude are nevertheless very unfortunate and should have been avoided. I am recording that Statoil has done a great deal of work to address the problems that have arisen. I expect them to continue this effort in the further development process. I will continue to follow the development of the project closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e45	Having regard to Paragraph 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, the President will now propose that a brief comment round be opened, limited to up to 5 minutes from each party group, and possibly a final remark from the Minister for Oil and Energy. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e50	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for the presentation. In the autumn of 2002, the Labour Party warned against choosing the Dragonos yard in front of Aker Kværner in Egersund. The offer from Egersund was 40 p.m. over the Dragonos. The big price difference we felt at the time was alarming. That is why we also asked for an investigation to be initiated into the conditions of competition. Now it turns out that the Workers' Party was right. Exceedances in the Snow White project are now 32 p.m., and there are still three every year left before the installation of the Dragonos yard is intended to sail to Hammerfest. The reasons for the exceedances are: major delays late deliveries wrong order of work since mobilization low productivity much of the work needs to be done again This shows that it is not only price, but also efficiency and power that are crucial for a successful project. From a media lookup, it seems that Statoil has learned from this affair. Konsernschef Helge Lund declares on 6 December 2004: ‘We may need to enter into longer and more committed partnerships with someone in order to lift the heavy projects.’ And on the other hand, «Cheapest manufacturing contracts abroad have not proved to be so cheap yet.» The Labour Party regrets that this lesson has cost many Norwegian jobs. We assume that the learning effect also includes the Council of State, although it may seem that learning ability is at the level of the Norwegian school, for which the Government is responsible. In spite of the exceedances, snow White is an important industrial project, especially for the northern part of the country. The project has created optimism and confidence in the future in a part of the country that is otherwise struggling with high unemployment. We assume that the Council of State has a close follow-up to the project and keeps the Storting informed on an ongoing basis, and that deadlines and financial frameworks must be maintained. Project management is expected to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e97	I also thank the Council of State for the presentation. Unfortunately, the development of the Snow White project has not evolved as we envisaged with regard to the investment framework. The project has now become significantly more expensive than the Stortinge based its setting. Such exceedances are bad news, not least for us who made sure that there was a majority here at Stortingen to allow this project. Nevertheless, we must note that the account we have received today does not contain surprising new elements. In the June State Council statement to the Stortinget, which Einar Steensnæs gave, it was suggested that exceedances in the order of DKK 4 to 6 billion in the second round were suggested, so that the total exceedance from the original cost framework would be below DKK 12 billion. At the same time, a delay of up to one year was suggested. The message this time is that the exceedance will be up to the maximum, while the delay will not be as large as suggested. I have previously pointed out from this speaker the importance of Statoil sticking within the estimates of the investment costs underlying a project. This is the reason for repeating. I would encourage Statoil's new management to go through all the procedures and calculation systems to ensure that future projects are adopted on the basis of quality-assured investment calculations. Whereas it must be such that the ministry and the grubbing-up can rely on the amounts of investment declared in applications for development; I agree entirely with the group leader Helge Lund that long-term partnership with some selected suppliers is probably a better idea than just price shopping. Having said that – and it was necessary to be told – I would also like to make it clear that we are enjoying ourselves, and are impressed by the amazing project that is under construction on Melkøya. A project with so much new technology, so much engineering and so much good planning gives cause for optimism. It is also reassuring to ensure that, despite the exceedances, the project is profitable with the prices achieved and that the revised calculation is considered robust. The Snow White project has shown how the northern regions can participate in our petroleum activities. A hectic construction phase has had major ring-effects, not only for Hammerfest, but also for Finnmark. Optimism, increased provision of services, young people moving back to work in the north, and a lot of construction activity give reason to rejoice. It also promises for the future that many Nordic companies have acquired new skills that can make them competitive for further development in the Barents Sea. In the short debate that is probably now following the orientation of the Council of State, some parties will certainly launch massive criticisms of both Statoil, the ministry and the parties who want to value our base. Despite the boring excesses I commented on at the beginning of my post, the Right is very pleased, and impressed by the fact that Norwegian oil companies, Norwegian suppliers, which account for a large part of the deliveries, and Norwegian society has become a world leader in offshore technology, with a strong focus on health, environment and safety. A moment of excitement in this matter is how the red-green alliance handles the Barents Sea in general and the Snow White Project in particular. It is often in the debate we have, not much that points towards idyllic cooperation on the petroleum industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e114	I also thank the Council of State for its briefing. The Snow White project is a technologically demanding project, in which many of the technical solutions to be used have not been in use or have been properly tested in the past. This will clearly be and has been so far a major challenge for the builder, and can probably explain some of the financial exceedances. Statoil has previously taken for granted self-criticism that the project was not sufficiently mature when it was started. Of course, this has also been a contributing factor in the fact that we are now unfortunately seeing further exceedances. Despite these repeated exceedances, fortunately, we see that there is still profitability in the project, although it is now reduced. I would also like to mention that this project has significant positive ring-effects for the national section as a whole. However, I assume that both Statoil and the Government see the seriousness of the situation and ensure that the economic development of the project is brought under control, and that the Stortinget is kept constantly informed of developments both in terms of progress and in terms of the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e125	About 11 billion dollars. Crisis in Finnmark. $11 billion is a lot of money. I should have liked them to do something else. If one divides 11 billion dollars by 73 000 Finnish mark-ups, an inaugural and innovation grant will be awarded to Finn Markts of 150 000 kroner per year. Paragraphs to drive alternative industrial development – hopefully viable – only at such an amount. There's something about the amount of money we're talking about here, and how we kind of just let billions roll without taking the direction that SV wanted in this case. I agree with the council that this is unfortunate and regrettable, but it points back a little bit to people in this room. Statoil was actually skeptical about building out Snow White, and the treasure egg wasn't good enough. Then it turned out that the bulk of the population both pressed on Statoil and fixed the treasure, in a election fight, and made sure it got started. So the driver wasn't the company itself, it was the Stortinget that was, because one not only wanted to increase activity, but would also make sure that the Barents Sea was opened. That back carpet shouldn't forget the plural, as it is now with an extra calculation. The important point, I think, for the majority of the population, and the Labour Party and the Right in particular, was to open the Barents Sea. Now it increases activity there. Now, "Eirik Red" is on the way, and there's an activity there that saw the environment in the Barents Sea in even greater danger than it is. For example, SV receives: do not know which chemicals a user is using in the region. Statoil was privatized by the new ml-tube, which I call it at the time: the market liberals, with the Labour Party, the LO, the Right and others at the top. This led to the fact that when one was to choose a supplier before the yard industry, it ended up looking at the benefits of society. Then it was a privatized company, then one would look at what was the most affordable. That's what became the driver. As before, the state could not actively control this company. So the assignment, on which the Labour Party's representative was in, went out of the country, Norwegian industry lost, very many jobs were laid down. Although SV was opposed to this project, we worked in a second round to ensure that the Norwegian shipyard industry would focus on this. So now you've got a calculation that shows that looking for a price doesn't necessarily lead to the cheapest option, when the extras are going on. That must be the amount of learning money in this matter as well. We've had Mongstad, we've had Åsgard, we've had Snow White. And then ask yourself, has anyone learned anything? No, I have no faith in that. People think this is how the bulk of the population is going to press ahead to make the oil companies speed up, because one does not think about the long-term and stability of the oil and gas industries. Then one must have reworked planes. So you have to have a development plan that you're sure is being implemented. What's happening now is that the bulk of the population is pushing up the pace, and then there's not enough reworked plans, or "mature" plans, which it's called in the language that you use before this industry. I agree with what Onarheim, Klungland and others had to say that the fact that Helge Lund, the new director, now promises a little more «faith» towards the Norwegian industry, is positive – absolutely. But those signals will conflict with one's choosing the cheapest one. And that will conflict with the right-wing government's policy. There is only one empty toolbox that cannot be controlled. Then there must be a will from the Government to choose the Norwegian industry ahead. Finally, Onarheim is delighted to see the question attached to the red-green government. Then I just want to steal something a colleague from another party has said: the red-green danger is better than the blue mares, without a toolbox.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e142	I think it's more than Onarheim asking what the red-green alliance would mean for the development of the northern regions, if that situation ever arose. I will also be allowed to thank the Council of State for her review and briefing on the exceedances of the Snow White project. As the Council of State said in its speech, there was a broad majority in Stortinget that stood behind the expansion of the project in the spring of 2002. Snow White is a huge project, with great challenges. It will produce large quantities of gas to the market for many years to come, will bring large revenues to the Norwegian state and will produce significant positive ring-effects to a region that is sorely in need of new activity, in line with Hallgeir H. Langeland’s wishes. A development project of this magnitude will always have some uncertainties, and of course there are several reasons for failure in both progress and the snow-white economy. Therefore, the size should not be surprised that crack formations can occur in a structure as extensive as the Snow White project is when it is to be put into practice. However, there is reason to respond to repeated failure of planning, implementation and subsequent cost overruns to the extent that we are now witnessing. The fact that previously a possible crack of 4-6 billion kroner was announced, as explained by the then state council Einar Steensnæs, does not make the situation less serious. I would like to remind you that this is not the first time that an extension project cracks heavily on the cost side. The builders must therefore know to take note of the unacceptable fact that this happens again and again. When the Storting dealt with this case in 2002, there were some clear assumptions regarding the economy and the delivery obligations for gas. The financial assumptions have failed, but at the same time I am pleased that Statoil can still discharge its contractual obligations, in the interests of our confidence in the market. However, there is reason to stress that the builders have a responsibility in relation to the decisions taken by the Stortinget and the assumptions underlying these decisions. It is not clear enough that the Storting has expectations that everything in the power of the builders is now being done to prevent further cost reductions and changes in the progress of the Snow White project. I take note that the project still has the necessary profitability, although the robustness is, of course, reduced when the cost side turns out to be so much different than intended and planned. Finally, let me also express a clear expectation that the new group management will be able to bring the project under control. I also trust that the Council of State will follow the further development of the Snow White project with the attention that it now seems to be obviously necessary for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e159	I also think it is good that the Council of State is here today to inform us about Snow White. It's probably not the happiest task the Council of State has had, but I feel that it is to be conscious of its responsibility, that the Council of State comes here and informs the Council of Storting. Now we've heard different versions of the story of Snow White, and I want to draw my version. When Stortinget approved the launch of the Snow White project in March 2002, the cost estimate was NOK 39.6 billion. In December of that year, the Stortinget was briefed on a cost of DKK 5.8 billion. It was stated that most of this was linked to the land. And as a Right-Man said to me when we were on a tour up there in the autumn: Do you – I mean – feel that this is impressive? I can stress that, the country complex that's impressive. But the companies that were involved in the expansion project said they would not have started this project if they had known about this increase in costs, which was SEK 5.8 billion at the time. After the presentation in the Stortinget in December 2002, the Senterpartiet said that we would reserve the possibility of returning at a later stage to assess whether there was a need for a comprehensive assessment of the Snow White Development. We have had ample opportunity to do that. This summer we were informed that there was a new crack, which was estimated to be between 4 and 6 billion kroner. The final sum would be about 50 billion kroner, not 39 billion dollars, as originally foreseen. Statoil said at the time that they had underestimated the complexity, and they recognized that the project was not sufficiently mature, as it is called in those circuits. The centre party believed that what had happened then changed the project so much that it was most appropriate to ask for a new plan for the development and operation of the field. We thought Stortinget needed a better understanding of why the project broke down. Through a new PUD, Stortinget was able to decide on the new scope of the project and the new costs. The intention was, of course, not to stop the expansion, but to get a more realistic picture of the project after it had changed so much. Actually, it might not have been so stupid to have had this knowledge right now, but the proposal won't be brought up again. Statoil explained this summer that the main reason why Snow White could be 12 billion kroner more expensive than budgeted was that the project was too poorly planned. On December 1, this year's evening, there is a big headline, "Snow White cracks by 6 billion". It sounds pretty bad, and yet it's just half the truth. We've been posing the exceedances. So the comfort is that the delays don't get as big as one had feared. Now you're counting on just half a year. But again, according to the Evening Post: The barge from Spain can only be taken to Norway at ‘summering’, and it is reported that the target is still in 2005. So we're going to hope that it works. This is a large and difficult project, so it's hard to meet exactly. But it is not right to exceedances in this order of magnitude. Unfortunately, it is not the first time that there have been so much overruns in this industry. Governments today stress that Statoil has gained new knowledge. They now believe that early work is important. In addition, they will now begin to focus on quality control. We're happy about that. Then we get to hope that for the future it will be better to ask for permission than to ask for forgiveness, which is relevant in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e178	I can assure Stortinget that the department will follow this matter closely, among other things. in meetings with Statoil — of course also by the Council of State. I also want to keep Stortinget informed. I just want to comment briefly on some of the comments that have come here. I noticed the representative of Klungland in relation to Dragados, that if you had chosen another solution, you wouldn't have had the problems of Snow White that have now been identified. It's hard to wonder about. It is Statoil that is the operator and that was responsible for the tendering process and the evaluations of the various operators. Statoil states that the problems related to costs and execution time are caused by many conditions, both at the operator, Statoil, at the main contractor, Linde, and not least at Dragados. So what the situation would have been if the contract had gone to a Norwegian shipyard is a very hypothetical question. I also find it a bit interesting to hear what the representative Langeland is expressing in relation to the activity in Finnmark. I think it reminds me a little bit about SV's double morals in this regard, because it might well be close to asking the question: What would Finnmark have been if we hadn't had the Snow White field and the activity up there, as it is today? It's not like Finnmark needs less activity. From my point of view, I believe that Finnmark needs even more activity, and not less. I would also like to question the fact that the costs of Snow White would be due to the fact that the expansion in the Barents Sea would be more expensive and more demanding. The cost excess on Snow White has little connection with the location, to put it mildly. It is clear from my statement that there are completely different factors that explain the evolution of the costs and the time use of the Snow White field. As I said, the main challenge that one has pointed out in the Snow White Project is that, as Statoil itself stresses, work in the early phase of a project needs to be focused and even greater resources added than what was done. In addition, the importance of having a more conscious relationship with technical maturity is underlined, in order to be able to get a better overview of the scope of work and, in particular, to get more realistic plans. In short, I would say that what is a fact today is that the exceedances are going to be nearly NOK 6 billion, and the total cost is going to be in the amount of NOK 51.3 billion for the Snow White Project, plus that the delays in regular gas deliveries are expected to be six months instead of what was suggested in the June statement, that it might go up to 12 months. In addition, I think it is very important to stress that Statoil has also pointed out that the project still meets Statoil's return requirements, although profitability now seems to be reduced. Finally, I would like to say that the Department will, of course, follow developments closely and, if necessary, also inform the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e199	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over. The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Oil and Energy on the state of the costs and progress of the Snow White Project be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e214	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and the Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e225	The size of the budget is currently addressing the position of the Energy and Environment Committee on the State budget for 2005. It is a good budget that shows offensive environmental policies and a further commitment to new energy and research. Through the agreement with the Progress Party, we maintain the main stakes underpinned by the proposals of the Cooperation Government. Norway is a leading energy nation. We want to maintain this position, not least in terms of efforts to develop and use new renewable energy. The hydropower still represents the support beam in Norwegian energy supply. It gives us an advantage in terms of clean and emission-free energy, but at the same time makes us vulnerable to fluctuations in weather conditions. In addition, electricity consumption has grown over several years without a corresponding increase in production capacity. Therefore, the need for imports of force has become the rule over the exemption. The government takes this challenge seriously. The commitment to new renewable energy is continued in the draft budget for next year. The creation of Enova was the right initiative. Next year, Enova will have 660 million available. kr through the levying on the network tariff and on interest revenue. This is 90 million. kr more than for the current year. The experience from their work so far is good, and the Government has increased ambitions for the activity from 10 to 12 TWh new renewable energy by 2010. In this way Enova helps to improve the energy balance while continuing the profile of Norway as a clean energy nation. For the Government and the Christian People's Party, this is important. It is also gratifying that a dedicated gas power research centre with CO2 management will be operational from the New Year. The activities are an expression of the Government’s willingness to provide technological solutions for CO2 management as quickly as possible. The centre, located in Grenland, will play a key role in this work. Natural gas will represent a significant increase in the energy market and, through appropriate technological solutions, could also lead to significant environmental improvements in relation to imported power. Cooperation governance will also significantly increase efforts in relation to other energy and petroleum research next year. The government believes that a greater proportion of our natural gas resources should be used domestically as a basis for value creation and more flexible energy supply. The Christian People’s Party therefore supports the Government’s proposal to increase the appropriations for this purpose in 2005. This confirms a long-term investment in the area. In the extension of this, I would like to refer to the big news about the domestic use of natural gas, which is now under consideration in the Committee, and which Stortinget will be discussing in the winter. Electricity transmission tariffs vary in different parts of the country. There has therefore been agreement in recent years on a grant scheme for balancing network tariffs in order to counter disproportionate price differences for households and businesses. In the draft State budget, the Government has focused on a significant increase in investment in a number of key areas, not least in relation to research. Consequently, no room was found for the continuation of the subsidy scheme in 2005 in the original draft budget, but in the comparison with the Progress Party it was 17.5 million. kr returned to the scheme. The Ministry of the Environment’s 2005 financial framework has increased by 4.4 pst. An offensive environmental effort is therefore continued. The challenges are many and large for the protection and conservation of the environment, nationally and globally. Climate change represents the largest environmental policy challenge facing the world, and the treatment and adoption of the Climate Change Act by yesterday’s treatment and adoption of the Climate Change Act are now taking important steps to meet this challenge. The way forward is long, and both this law and the Kyoto Protocol must be seen as the first step in the fight against man-made climate change. But the challenges are also in line at national level. The government follows up its protection work and increases the appropriations for this purpose. There has been a desire from different teams for a protective break, but I do not see that it should now be necessary. On the other hand, the focus on good processes prior to protection will be important, and those affected will feel taken seriously. The need for measures to clean up ports and coastal areas remains high. The budget is also contributing to this, but we must recognise that the challenges are greater than what can be achieved by more than one government budget. But we're in the process, and the direction is right. Acid rainfall and fishing sickness have been a significant problem for many years. Over many years of effort, we now see that the fish are returning to a number of watercourses. This is a result of good efforts by a number of voluntary actors, such as drug users and drug users. in the case of extensive liming programmes. However, the need for liming seems to be too low, but the majority, consisting of the government parties and the Progress Party, have agreed to strengthen the budget by 20 million. kr in addition to what the Government proposed. The government also proposes strengthening the work against Gyrodactylus salaris. Finally, I would like to highlight the work done by a number of organisations with common objectives of improving the environment and safeguarding important cultural memories. I would like to thank the Progress Party for the conciliation and cooperation on an overall and good budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e263	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e266	I've been following Storting's treatment of predatory messages from the deep forests where these animals really live. With great scepticism, I assessed the agreement between the political parties, but put my trust that this would lead to increased efforts to prevent and mitigate conflict. It was a great disappointment when I saw the draft budget and also the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. Not one more penny for measures to mitigate the population conflicts in the case of predators. Nor does one crown prevent damage to those who are burdened with the predators. Is it not difficult, as case rapporteur for the report of predators, where a broad political settlement was sought, to testify that the promises are not followed up by your own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e271	I was also a part of the deep forests during the treatment of the predatory message and got clear messages and strong impressions of how the local population, those who lived in these areas, experienced the predatory problem. This was a matter that might have been, and still is, more difficult than many other policy areas, and I'm very pleased that we got such a broad deal in the Storting as what we actually did. It creates soundness, which can increase predictability in relation to the management of predators, but also in relation to those who have to live with predators. I am also very pleased that we were able to get into a system that takes more care of local interests with greater local involvement and influence. The government proposes that the work on increased information and knowledge on wild game should be prioritised in the framework of the 32 million. kr proposed for preventive and conflict mitigation measures in 2005. Regional predators shall, within a pot of funds for each region, also give priority to the prevention of animal husbandry and anti-conflict measures aimed at municipalities and local communities. On the basis of this, I do not agree with the description that the Government does not follow up the predatory settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e280	I agree with the Labour Party that the Government does not entirely follow up the broad predatory settlement that was, where one was to have municipal pots for preventive action, and where one was to facilitate Scandinavian Rovviltsenter. None of those things are followed up. None of the preventive activities associated with predatory game are followed up. I am very sorry, and that is also regrettable. The farmers and small farmers, who were happy with what was originally in the text, but which is now dissatisfied. At all, I have the impression that it is the Progress Party that has been implemented in some cases. It goes on a liming, where a plus 20 million is added. kr, which is very positive, and then it goes into cultural memory, where one also adds. But the profile of the Christian People's Party when it comes to the environment, we also talk about yesterday. I thought the profile is weakening even today, not least against environmentally friendly travel life, the year of outdoor life next year. So what is actually the Christian People's Party's environmental issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e289	Increased emphasis on liming, increased bet on cultural memories, increased investment in new renewable energy, record-breaking efforts to generate CO2 technology for gas power plants – I could mention a list that was very long. It is encircled in the setting. The profile of the Christian People's Party is respected, it has been reinforced, and I feel that as a party we can stand firm in relation to the setting that exists. With reference to yesterday's debate, I am proud – and I guess I also said that during the debate that we had on the quota law – that this government, of which the Christian People's Party is part, and which our Council of State represents, has for the first time set up a system for trading in quotas with a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We've put this into a system. It's the first government that's done that, and we're actually proud of that. That's why both the budget and what happened in the Storting yesterday are good Christian People's Party profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e301	Ramm mentioned in his statement that the transmission of network tariffs had been removed. I then understood that the answer that it had been taken out was that there was an emphasis on research. Well, that's good with research. But it's just that people don't live by research, they live here and now. That's why this is an important issue with the smoothing of network tariffs. I know there are several reasons why the web rental has increased. But now we know that the average network rental in Sogn and Fjordane is NOK 7 480, and in Oslo it's NOK 4880. There are big differences. I want to ask Rahm what kind of thinking lies behind when the government goes in to cut out such a system that's embarrassing for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e308	I don't think the representative Inger S. Enger and I have such a terrible disagreement with the issue of network tariffs and that there is a need for measures that can eliminate disproportionately high network tariffs in some places in the country. I also think the government is aware of that. But at the same time, we are invading the fact that when we are in a difficult budgetary situation, where we actually want to prioritize research as high as this government has done, and as the Storting has also long been longing for, it is a problem to get space for all good purposes. I am nevertheless pleased – and I think that is also Inger S. Enger – that we have, after all, recovered 17.5 million. kr, and that it can help mitigate the effects of the bias in network tariffs in those parts of the country that need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e315	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e319	Let me start by addressing the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting alone, and those to which we are co-sponsors. The defence gods seem to have saved the Minister of Energy this year in order to get media and opinion pressure on energy prices and security of energy supply. We can enjoy relatively low electricity prices so far this year. But in the Workers' Party we will warn against the establishment of an optimism in relation to the power situation. We still experience larger and larger gaps between production and consumption. Now, in any case, not everyone will perceive the agreement between the Government and the Advance Party as a guarantee of a decline in power prices. The cut in the net tariff transfer balancing will affect both private customers and especially businesses in the districts. One year ago, the Government itself argued that this was the best solution for balancing the network tariff in District Norway. Last year, the Workers' Party managed to negotiate until an increase, from the Government's proposal of 20 million. NOK 40 million. kr. This year, the Progress Party has managed to negotiate at 17.5 million. kr, which means a reduction of a total of 22,5 million. kr and is less than what the Workers' Party was created in the negotiations with the Government one year ago. I assume that the budgetary situation, as pointed out by the chairman of the committee, was perhaps just as difficult then. The principle that a little bit is better than nothing is probably a good principle. But it's still just a little bit, and it shows the district profile of the negotiations and the settlement that have been concluded. The party of progress is more evident than ever as the guarantor of this government. This agreement has shown that the Progress Party is a small Right Party that sits well planted in the big brother's pocket. The Progress Party will probably also be adding the broad side to what they call ‘missing energy policies’ today. I don't know if there's any special interest in mending about it anymore. After all, it is the Progress Party that ensures that the Government can continue its policy, or, allegedly, lack of policy. The Labour Party wishes to focus on an offensive and targeted industrial policy. We want to use the gas domestically. We want to establish an infrastructure company to provide gas pipelines to land. In line with our ancestors, we want a public investment to create more values of our natural resources. Where would Norway have been if it had not been invested in infrastructure such as roads, power lines and power plants in the last century? The nation of Norway has a luxury problem when politicians want to sell natural resources out of the country rather than use them to create lasting values and jobs domestically. Norway has been lucky. But up through the ages it hasn't been enough just to be lucky. Good political governance is a prerequisite for becoming the best country to live in for most. But we've been lucky. Our oil resources are really invaluable in the context of our welfare development. We've developed an industry that's at the top of the world in terms of technology and the environment. It is important to maintain this competence. That is why we must ensure that industry is given a mission. Industry is concerned about development, or lack of development. In this context, TBL has presented a project list with which the Government will continue to work. I therefore allow myself to ask: What does the Government do to follow up and look at the possibilities to provide TBL's project list? What does the Government do to keep the pressure up to ensure the competence of the Norwegian base and of the Norwegian supplier industry? I started my professional career as a process worker at Tinfos Jernverk in Kvinesdal. It was also here that I became aware of the impact of electricity on society, whether local or national. At Øye Melting Works, we purchased electricity as a raw material. Then we used the power in a process that meant that we further processed the kilowatts up to a value for society of almost NOK 1 per. kilowatts. So after the electricity went through the furnaces at the melting plant, society got 1 kroner per. kilowatts. For several years, industry has been the subject of policy attacks from ‘repellent forces’. Many claim that the industry is getting too cheap power. Based on the one-sided desire of the power producers for profit, I understand this argument. Based on nationalistic environmental protection interests, I also understand that. But for society as a whole, both nationally and internationally, it is still important to further develop our common resources from a few cents to 1 cent. per 1 % kilowatts. At the same time, this will be for the best for the environment, and that in itself is important. Norway has over 20 pst. of hydropower resources, 60 pst. of oil resources and 40 pst. of the identified gas resources in Europe — and we have 1 pst. by the population. Norway is an energyless country in Europe. Nevertheless, we are becoming increasingly dependent on importing energy. We've had situations where the power price has reached unacceptable heights because it's been too low. What's the price if it gets really dry, we can just dream about. The energy country of Norway can easily get the most expensive current in Europe. That the situation is similar in our neighbouring countries is exacerbating the situation. But at least they've had the sense to start building gas power plants. It may not be so strange that people get confused when a government goes off because it didn't get a majority to make us increasingly dependent on foreign coal power and nuclear power. Odelstingen has now finally created a framework for speeding up new developments. The Labour Party is pleased that there was a government council from the Christian People's Party that realized that something had to be done. The question becomes whether it is too late for certain industrial sites. The government writes in the proposition that they have no goal of providing industry with long-term framework conditions in terms of energy. This is where the government will have to be responsible in the future. In climate policy, health policy and criminal justice, we must prevent. In energy policy, we have to wait and see. Mo in Rana has come into a special situation. Power agreements expire during the spring, and no agreements have been reached that can meet the need for force. The Labour Party – together with the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party – is therefore promoting today a proposal that we really hope there is a majority for here in the Chamber. We still believe that the Government should do what the Storting wants, and not the other way around. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Advance Party were all in Mo and promised that this matter would be sent back to the Government. We, who promote this proposal, believe that the Government must follow up when the Storting gives it notice to do something. If we now reach a majority, it is up to the Government to show the will to do something for the industry and the welfare community. In the Workers' Party, we still believe that politics is too willful. For this government, it might seem that there's something new. But when former industrial minister Syse founded the ilmenite melting plant in Tyssedal, Trygve Hegnar said that they could rather sit and bend bananas. We do not hope that many communities in Norway will be sitting and bending bananas because of government policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e361	The representative Rolf Terje Klungland has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e366	I have read through the comments both from the Workers' Party and from the Socialist Left Party. There is no escape from the fact that there is a gap, not least with regard to this active industrial policy and the investment there, of which Klungland is involved. If we take on board the projects in the Barents Sea, where the Socialist Left Party is not only opposed, but where they even allow glaring representatives to go to civil disobedience to prevent the progress of the projects up there, I must ask the representative of Klungland whether he is comfortable with the huge gap in the policy between the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. Does he realise that the policies of the Socialist Left – this no-, no- and no-policy – are to promote industrial development in this country? What predictability would Klungland say that this gives to individual actors within, among other things, the petroleum industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e373	In fact, I believe that the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Labour Party have a far more effective will to want something political than what this Government has. I believe that SV has more terawatt-hours of power than the government has. They have proposed this. When it comes to working together in government and getting these projects out, nobody in this room should know better how to do it than the Right. When looking at social developments where the market is going to control everything, and where there is no political will at all, and looking at the environmental challenges and what has been done in relation to the Barents Sea, in the Lofoten and not building gas power plants, one might ask how the Right has had it in this government. The left-hand side of Norwegian policy wants something about politics, that's the most important thing. I am convinced that this will result in good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e380	I am mildly astonished at the concern of the representative, Mr Klungland, about power shortages and electricity prices. I find it necessary to remind him of the Workers' Party's vote in power development cases – in Upper Otta, in Salt Mountain/Black and last, but not least, in Saudi. And of course: this in addition to the party's double communications regarding the construction of gas power plants and CO2 emissions. You change your argument here by whom you're talking, and you change your mind from day to day, and today it actually sounded like the party was a fan of gas power. I pointed out in yesterday's debate in Odelstinget that the Workers' Party would not ensure the same emission requirements in Norway as elsewhere in the EEA area, while the party today is in fact in agreement with the Progress Party on a similar wording. As the representative of Klungland is familiar with, I got no answer to this yesterday. However, I would like to give the Workers' Party and Klungland another opportunity to clarify these matters. Has the lot now taken a stand, or are you still going to wing around and change your mind on these important questions from day to day?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e395	It's basically fun to get lines from the representatives of the Progress Party. It's kind of funny when they talk about what you're going to get, and what you're not going to get. But what's known about the Progress Party is that they have the ability to just sew. No matter who it is, they complain, and they all complain, and then they travel around Norway and say that the Progress Party must follow up the Kyoto agreement. Is there anyone who has seen any suggestion from the Progress Party on how to do that? No, of course not, because then they had to take responsibility and also do something. With regard to the climate agreement that the Workers' Party has concluded, we believe that it has ensured a level playing field for Norwegian industry. There were some things that we pointed out in the negotiations, with which the government is going to come back. We are pleased that the Government chose the Workers' Party in this agreement to secure Norwegian industry on the climate side. But the energy side is still there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e402	I would first like to express my joy at what we are dealing with the Workers' Party in this setting. For there is much we can agree on, both the importance of outdoor life and the protection of the beach zone and the proposal to secure power supplies to the power-intensive industry. But here we also meet one of the paradoxes. The reason for the problems of the Rana society next year is a combination of the new Energy Act and the EEA Agreement for which the Workers' Party has been so engaged. For precisely in the energy policy, we repeatedly experience that the Workers' Party meets itself in the doorway, and the party cannot hide behind gas power stations that are never built. So my question to the representative Klungland is, have you learned anything? Will you start listening a little bit more to EN in the future when it comes to energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e409	In any case, the Socialist Left Party in the Border Region has had a steep learning curve in terms of energy and gas power plants. They go in both to get pipes to Grenland and to get gas power plants. The Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party also stood together when the Energy Act was passed, where we proposed that it be compulsory to discover. And so if the 12 TWhs that the Workers' Party gave the concession to expand here in the country had been expanded, the situation in the energy market in Norway would have been completely different. We believe that it is due to a lack of political will that it has not been done. And we're going to stick to the EEA in order for Norwegian industry to have conditions of competition similar to those in the rest of Europe. So we believe it is possible to live with both an energy law and, of course, the EEA agreement – if you are not going to become a member, then. But political will is required. And there's a lack of product today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e416	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e419	It is a good budget that is being presented today and adopted by the Stortinget. The budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party of the Financial Committee has continued in the framework areas 12 and 13 of the budget. A substantial part of our economy and a substantial part of our industry depends on a still steady oil activity at a relatively high level. In order to ensure a long-term development path for our petroleum activities, we depend on a high level of exploration and an intensified research effort to increase extraction in existing fields. The Government has proposed measures to stimulate tail production and measures to ensure the diversity of the pedestal by stimulating the participation of new and smaller companies in development. The government's commitment to project-oriented technology development is aimed at increasing value creation – and here the Demo 2000 programme will be important – in order to develop new technological solutions. The State is a significant owner of licences on the socket administered by Petoro. Petoro has an important role to play in ensuring high value creation in the licences in which the country participates. It is a fact that our petroleum activities also lead to environmental challenges, and the Government rates in different ways to reduce them. Norway’s energy supply depends on electricity from hydropower. Our hydropower plants have an annual production that varies between 90 TWh and 120 TWh. It is a fact that the consumption of electricity has grown significantly over a long period of time. New power needs to be introduced into the market to ensure Norwegian industry, other businesses and households stable electricity supply. Large hydropower expansions are no longer relevant, and then gas power gives us great opportunities. It now appears that at least one or two of the approved gas power plants will be built. For new gas power plants, the cleaning requirements will become more stringent. This is the background to the Government's strong commitment to environmentally friendly gas technology. The establishment of the Innovation Centre in Grenland and the increase in energy research appropriations should be able to lead Norway to remain in a tight position to establish gas power plants without high CO2 emissions. Such technology development will also provide our supplier industry with great opportunities to develop a significant new market. In the setting, the Government Parties and the Advance Party propose to set aside up to 17,5 million. kr for the balancing of transfer tariffs. The government had seen itself have to cancel this entry in St.prp. number 1. The reason for returning this item to the budget is the large differences there are in transfer tariffs, and the unfortunate fact that such a scheme is omitted without any conversion time. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing the world. It is essential that all countries plan and implement measures to reduce environmentally harmful emissions. The government is therefore investing significantly in energy savings, the development of new renewable energy sources, environmentally friendly transport and improved public transport. Our environmental effort is based on the precautionary principle, the polluter-pays principle, and the nature's tolerance limit is to be used as a basis for practical policy. The Government's proposal for an allowance system, based on cooperation with the EU, is part of the process of preparing the industry for the Kyoto agreement. The government attaches great importance to taking care of Norwegian nature and ensuring biodiversity. This leads to considerable efforts to protect important natural areas. The Bondevik II Government has implemented many protection processes, and has requested increased commitment powers linked to the National Park Plan, providing new protection opportunities. The work on forest protection is intensified. I think it is gratifying that the Government attaches such great importance to this, while reducing the level of conflict associated with forest protection. The possibilities of voluntary protection seem to be a good way to go. Norway has a special responsibility to ensure the Atlantic salmon strains that go in our rivers. There are many conditions that can lead to reduction or eradication, but one of the most important is Gyrodactylus salaris. It is gratifying that this budget line has increased. The most widely used method of eradicating gyro has been rotenone. I think it's a terrible method, where all life in the river is killed, and often so that more treatments are necessary. The encouraging results which researchers can demonstrate by the use of aluminium additives can provide an effective and far more gentle treatment of rivers to eradicate gyro. The calculation of the watercourses that have been exposed to acid rain has shown very good results. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party of the Financial Committee, the Government's draft budget increased by 20 million. kr. I think it makes sense to have such an increase to make some of these rivers complete. Harmful chemicals have been released into nature for decades. Priority should be given to cleaning up old and newer sins in this area. Norway also has a number of highly conservation cultural memories. The budget to prevent loss of cultural memories and for maintenance and preservation is increasing. It will require considerable resources for several years to secure the cultural heritage. Our country is in a unique situation in terms of economic sustainability and energy resources. Norway has great opportunities to be the leading energy nation in Europe. At the same time, we are facing significant environmental challenges, not least because of our energy resources. With the upswings in today's budgetary position, we have the opportunity to make some quantum leaps in both of the areas dealt with in this debate. Multi-energy investment, increased extraction rates on our base, opening up promising exploration areas in the north, upgrading older power plants based on water resources and opening up small power plants, including in sheltered watercourses – all of this gives us great opportunities in the coming period, and will provide many special and exciting tasks for young, skilled people in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e455	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e458	The Rana community is in a very difficult situation because the power agreements with industry have already expired on 6 April 2005. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have therefore submitted a proposal today asking the Government to ‘find transitional solutions for power supplies to the Rana industry within the scope of the EEA Agreement’. Economic spokesman in the Right, Ivar Kristiansen, said earlier today that the Right followed up all the decisions the Labour Party made in relation to power regimes, and that we had to do what we could for Mo. On the other hand, the government has said that they do not see it as a goal to provide for long-term power agreements. However, the government parties at Stortinget have been involved and treated this as a matter of their own. In the meantime, Rana needs a special solution. Then my question to Leif Frode Onarheim: Will the Right support the Workers' Party's proposal to send this matter to the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e467	The issue of these tariffs was withdrawn from the budget and made a separate matter, and the representative of Klungland will be the rapporteur on that matter. In this way he should be able to find out the opportunities the Workers' Party sees, and then you have to assess them. With regard to the proposal that has been put forward, I would like it to be turned into a transmission proposal, which would make it easier for us to be involved. But as it is now available, I regret to inform the representative of Klungland that we will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e474	Now you see, compared to what Onarheim was about, how empty that right toolbox is. When you have opportunities to create industrial workplaces, which were once important to the Right, but where it is now more important to think about adapting to the market and not controlling, you see an example of what the Right has become, or what a good Right policy is. That's easy: let the market rule! If the industry is unable to adapt to the market, put it down. That's what Onarheim now says to us. That's what the government also says to us. We've asked them to figure this out. They don't even want to see if there are any other countries that have developed such an industrial power regime. Not that either! There are no active actions for taking effect for workspaces in Norway. That's what we're talking about from the Right, also in Finnmark, where one could have helped to take the fish back to the county and just got jobs in place. What's left of Right's business policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e481	I feel free to say that I have more experience in starting businesses and keeping them profitable than the representative of Langeland. We are committed to getting profitable businesses, and then it must not be based on having a price that is not natural compared to the market. The situation in Mo in Rana is difficult, I admit it. They had the opportunity to enter into an agreement a few years ago. They didn't. So now you're in a situation where this slowing down of the contracts suddenly approaches fast. That is why I would urge the representative of Klungland to try quickly to find out what alternatives he sees. The government has put forward a proposal to look at option schemes that can provide a certain opportunity, but these are not the large amounts. That's why we now have to create and think about industry in the future that can be profitable, without society subsidising it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e490	I got from the post to Onarheim that the government had a good hand in the protection work. In terms of forest protection, he said that voluntary protection is a good way to go. I entirely agree that it is. But, as you know, changes in agricultural taxation are now taking place, and unfortunately this will lead to taxes on voluntary protection. It is probably not intentional, but I would like to ask the representative Onarheim from the Right what reflections he makes about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e497	As the representative of Enger is absolutely aware, I would have liked to sit at the top of the Ministry of Finance from time to time and make some decisions. But I don't. We've said that this system probably has no intended effects, and it can lead to more pay if you're going to claim compensation for voluntary protection, which is probably not correct or probable. That's why we've asked you to look at this and evaluate it from the angle that we want greater volunteering in the protection work. We want to be able to provide forest that is protected, and then there must also be compensation schemes that make it interesting. Therefore, I hope that you will take a round on this in the government, so that you can come back and at least explain what is the purpose, what might change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e504	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e507	Petroleum activity is and will be our most important industry for many years to come. This industry has brought us all the way to the world's top in technology development, and the industry contributes to employment and value creation across large parts of the country. The country's net cash flow from these activities is significant and has contributed positively to the development of our welfare society. Current oil prices also contribute to the return of optimism in the industry. We must not forget that the high oil prices apply worldwide, and so oil companies can find it even more profitable to operate elsewhere than on Norwegian continental shelf. Therefore, we must constantly focus on this industry's framework conditions in order to ensure the competitiveness of the socket and to ensure a steady pace of development. Just before the holiday, Stortinget treated the government's oil report. This time, too, Stortinget was invited to make political choices, and this time too, Stortinget wanted the long-term development path on the pedestal. The size was given clear signals as to what was going on to achieve such a development. A coherent oil industry had the following recipe: Give us new prospective areas, it was the most important thing. Give us a tax regime with a focus on better resource use, which can make marginal fields profitable, and make sure that the state, as the second-largest player on Norwegian pedestal, contributes more funds to research and development, especially towards reservoir use. Unfortunately, very little was done by Stortinget to meet these wishes. It was hotly spoken by this spokesperson about the importance of this industry, but without taking the necessary steps to ensure the development of the industry. The Progress Party promoted the necessary proposals, but, of course, remained entirely alone. Access to prospective areas was of course the most important desire from the oil industry, and especially the northern areas, with the Lofoten–Barents Sea, were of course the most interesting. But there was no oil business here, at least not until more impact assessments had been carried out. Despite the fact that a large number of these impact assessments have already been carried out and more than half a billion dollars have been spent in the area, it is necessary to re-examine the impact, and now a comprehensive management plan is to be drawn up, as it is called. This is in no way due to the need for a better decision-making basis. This is due only to the refusal of decision and the lack of political power in this Chamber. I can, however, be pleased with the fact that the Progress Party is also promoting the necessary proposals today, so that the Stortinget will again be able to show the power of action and give our main nourishment the signals they need to find the Norwegian pedestal worth to bet on. Looking at the forecasts for the oil industry in Norway, it does not look as bad as the next few years. But then it looks far from bright. The oil industry is very capital-intensive, and it takes many years before the money throws something of itself. It is therefore very important to pursue a long-term and predictable policy in this area. As I said earlier, it was a desire of all parties to make more use of the oil resources. Research and development can contribute to this, and in the Government's draft budget this has now increased. There should be no doubt that the Norwegian State, which is making the most of a better use of resources, should not make more money for this important research. For several years, the Progress Party and I have proposed to take this research out of the ordinary budgetary procedure and to set up a petroleum research fund of DKK 10 billion, where the return was to be used for research. This proposal has broad support in the oil environment, but the Stortinget has not yet given its support. Then to the power market. Over the past ten to twelve years, an increase in electricity consumption has increased four to five times more than the increase in production. The NVE, Statnett and, of course, the Progress Party have over a number of years warned of what would happen if we did not achieve a better balance between supply and demand. Several governments and large-scale figures have for the same time ignored all these warnings. If you are to have a well-functioning market, you must have the best possible balance between supply and demand. The main problem in the Norwegian electricity market is that it actively intervenes on the supply side of this market and prevents the necessary increase in production. Most of the hydropower expansion throughout this period has either been drastically reduced or rejected in its entirety. Looking at micro, mini and small power plants, this is now stopped by an extensive bureaucracy that will not take inward the positive signals that have actually come from this house. The majority in this room will also not take the necessary steps to exploit our huge gas resources, both as a direct energy source, as raw materials in industry and last but not least for power generation. I think it's amazing that Norway, as one of the world's greatest energy storms, has managed to mess it up this way. We have an energy production of nearly 3,000 TWh and use 6-7 pst. of this itself. The rest goes to export. Then there is a need to import large amounts of power from polluting coal and nuclear power plants in other countries, thanks to this defensive energy policy. Norwegian energy policy, or rather a lack of energy policy, has been at the forefront of so-called environmental protection for too many years. The political majority, although obviously obliged to see that it is wrong to do so, do not dare to settle matters with environmental protection organisations. Instead, these organisations have been – and are still – suppliers of this clearly flawed energy and environmental policy. We saw another example of this yesterday when Odelstingen adopted an early national greenhouse gas allowance regime. The result of the policy we experienced the winter two years ago. Two dry harvest months were enough to ensure that the security of supply was close to breaking down, and the electricity prices went all the way through the shaft. Electricity prices have stabilised at a higher level after this time, but thanks to even rainfall and steady recovery, such crisis situations have been avoided. Unfortunately, too little has been done to improve the Norwegian and Nordic power balance, which we in the Progress Party take the consequences of and propose more measures for today. Then to the budget. The party to the progress made, as known, a budgetary settlement with the Government Parties on the main framework. There we were able to enter two of our most important areas of activity within the Ministry of the Environment's portfolio, namely a sharp increase in the post for watercourses and the post for the protection of vessels. We've also got 17.5 million in place. to align network charges within the framework of the Ministry of Oil and Energy by means of an agreement with the Government Parties. Even though we'd prefer to put the $40 million in place. kr we had in our alternative state budget, we see that what we got through, after all, will work well for those who need it the most. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e537	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e542	The largest risk project in Norway today is to operate with the current regime, said the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal at 1 p.m. 16-21 Wednesday 8 December 2004. Does the representative still mean it, or has he turned? Does the representative, Mr Vaksdal, share the responsibility for the current regime? Will the Progress Party support the proposal on the Mo industry, which they promised when they were represented in Mo, or does the Advance Party appear in the emperor's new clothes and fully support the current regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e550	Yesterday, Mr Odelstinget debated to the representative of Klungland an early national greenhouse gas quota regime, a regime behind the Labour Party and the government parties, endangering thousands of Norwegian industrial workplaces. I am amazed that the Klungland Labour Party representative, who himself comes from industry, is involved in developing such a regime. Has not the representative Klungland and the Workers' Party wondered why Eivind Reiten and Norsk Hydro will now build aluminium production in Qatar instead of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e557	It is often touching to listen to the concerns of the Progress Party for Norwegian power customers. This year we're spending $40 million. kr to balance the differences in the transmission tariffs between districts and more central routes. This year, almost 22 of these millions of power customers in the South Trøndelag will benefit. I note that the concern is not very deep, when the Progress Party can actually do something. Sharp 17.5 million. kr on a national basis is less than only South Trøndelag gets today. My question is therefore: Does the Progress Party believe that the power customers have reason to be satisfied with this result? The same applies to the proposal on power supplies to the Rana community. Why can't the Progress Party vote in favour of that proposal and make sure that it actually gets a majority in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e564	As I said in my post, we would have preferred to see that we had got 40 million in place. kr for the balancing of net tariffs, which we had in our primary draft budget. We didn't do that. But I still think 17.5 million. kr benefits those who need it the most. But of course there are other things that make the power customers sweat. There is a lack of balance between supply and demand. That's exactly what's the main reason why prices are rising. In addition to this, we have proposed a review of the network tariffs from this intercom where we need to make greater demands for the efficiency of the network companies. Neither SV nor any other parties could be involved in this. In addition to this, we have also called for a reduction in the electricity charge, which neither SV will be included in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e573	We, who are a little sickest in terms of energy law and market policy in relation to energy, know that Waksdal is now out on huge thin ice compared to what he stands here and sews about, as I said earlier today. The progress party almost blessed the Energy Act when it was adopted. The working party and SV said we had to have a discovery of electricity in Norway. If not, the price would go into the air, and it would go beyond both customers, private customers, and industry. Now we've seen the effect of that. The working party has proposed to build up power, without that having happened. But we are nevertheless concerned about securing the industry that is already there, so that it stays in Norway. It's good for everyone, and it's good for the environment. Therefore, the situation in Mo is very special, and I will again ask Øyvind Waksdal if he will support the proposal that lies here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e582	It is quite right that the Progress Party supported the Energy Act, which has given customers a much better power market, and which has led to lower electricity prices, until the politicians began to interfere on the supply side of this market, for which the Workers' Party has the primary responsibility. In this connection, I would like to recall Jens Stoltenberg's New Year's anniversary four years ago, when he said that it was now the end of the hydroelectric development, and that was the way it was. When one intervenes on the supply side of a market, the market will not work. Prices are rising, and we're short.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e589	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e592	I take up the SV's suggestions plus the suggestions that SV is on. So I'd like to fix an error in relation to Enova's revised goal, which we've written is 10 TWh, but which is going to be 12 TWh. There is also more in line with SV's policy, even if it is a bit away. I will make a clarification in relation to Decision VIII, on cooperation ‘to reduce the level of conflict’ in primary industries. I just want to say that SV has not said that we do not want to have a dialogue with environmental organisations. On the contrary, we should have a very strong dialogue with environmental organisations. We should not accept everything that comes from the Forest Geyser Federation and others – that is. We must have voluntary protection, but of course we must also have professional protection. So it's clear. I must say that I wonder when I belong to the Progress Party. Corvore moves Hydro to Qatar, ask them. That's because they get too bad framework conditions in Norway. Then one from the Progress Party gets a case on the table where one can show the action force one says one has. But then Waksdal says he won't. He's not answering the lines. A few weeks ago, thousands of protesters stood in Rana demanding a transitional regime, and the Progress Party promised it. Today, they have the chance to show their power of action. So they don't. They do not want to take part in this proposal. Then I must say that the Progress Party is failing the Rana community today. That's what they're going to hear. In addition to the Rana proposal, on which the Centre Party, SV and the Labour Party are behind, not only Klungland alone, there is another proposal on which the Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party are united. But we're also together on other things, for example. focusing on hydrogen that is energy-bearing. We are also working together to focus on facilitating water improvement projects in more states than in Eastfold, with the Morsa project – on the Jären in Rogaland, we have Aktion Jærvastret. We need more of these projects. Unfortunately, we don't get multiples for that. We also stand together, the red-green father, to get more areas converted so that the outdoor interests can put them into use, for example. in the case of defence courts, see: Balloons. We also agree to be more offensive to green travel and a greater commitment to the Year of Outdoor Life. So we have a profile that's good with regard to outdoor interests and with regard to public access. These parts have also been central to getting several high-spin lines laid in the ground. But finally SV was alone, so far, when it comes to trying to organize in the Årum, an area with a high rate of cancer. Subsidy, however, we support the proposal of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party, where one demands that the Government return to the cause. Now the state council has to go into this, not just push it ahead of itself. In cooperation with the Minister of Health, he has to take a grip on Årum. I saw from the next week's calendar that the Council of State was going to Hafslund, on December 15. Then there should be a matter that discusses with Hafslund, perhaps that one discusses how one can solve that problem. Thus, from New Year onwards, it should be prohibited to use PCB-containing capacitors. They are to be withdrawn from service, we have decided. But it's not going to happen. A few places are going to happen. In addition, PCB capacitors are pushed into the head of the students in the base ball, because the municipalities can't afford to replace them. Local authorities are also writing dispensations because they don't have money, because they're being bullied by this government. SV has for several years proposed to do something about this, creating an interest-free loan scheme, so that one could remove the married person from taking care of it. So do we today. This is because PCB is dangerous, but we also do it because there is actually an energy saving potential there on one-two Saudi extensions. Besides, there's an employment potential there, for one can put electromonauts at work. So SV doesn't get multiples for the best solution, but in other words we support the setting of IX and X. It raises the focus, and it's moving in our direction toward this environmental poison. In fact, it used to be that the Right was with us on everything that went on the PCB, but they seem to have forgotten to say the lesson when it comes to this problem today. Something of the most important, I think, related to the problem of Snow White/Hammerfest and workplaces in Finnmark, is to take the fish back to Finnmark. I don't think, as State Council Widvey suggests, that there may be more "Hammerfests" in Finnmark. I visited Hammerfest last weekend. There's great optimism. But one cannot get the optimism in every location in Finnmark, because one cannot operate with oil and gas bases on each side. Then you have to have something else that's viable as well. That's when one has to take the fish back, make sure it happens. On today's news, we heard that oil activity was without problems. No harm will be done to the fish. A new report shows that water produced does not create that problem. It's a new thing that you have to bring with you a pinch of salt. It also appeared during the day that it was not that simple, because the marine research institute felt abused and misunderstood. They so easily in an NTB message later today, at the research director Ole Misund, that the report can't be used as a freezing of the oil industry. We're not done, says Envy. So one is already out of the oil industry's side and concludes that one can only run on, because this is not dangerous, but having the necessary knowledge that one should have, not least about the Barents Sea area, which is a much more complicated area to operate in and a much more subdued area if it should happen accidentally. The report of predators was captured by SV and the Labour Party because the government party was unable to support what was said there. A good job was done. There were many good decisions to make. The environmental movement was happy, and much of the industry was happy – not everyone, it is wrong to say. But what one believed was that one would get a little speed in the pre-construction work, one would have the means to run a local pre-construction in the municipalities, kneading up against the predatory problem. Many municipalities were interested. Then a multiple said, "Yes, we have to do that." SV has seen 30 million. to this end in its budget. The government is silent. So it doesn't follow up on the important work it is to make sure that one has a predatory policy that many people can be satisfied with and that ensures that we take care of our international obligations. A new red-green alternative, the red hazard, is on the bed. I see that we have major challenges in some areas, not least on the energy side, which we discussed yesterday, tied up to investing in impurising gas and oil, in the Barents Sea. But when the Right People and the Advance Party people smile in their beards and say that this is going to be hard and bad, I think you'll see how you've had it for yourself in those years. Christian People's Party and the Left, as before was an environmental party, it is no longer. Right, which had to be part of some environmental grips at first, has now taken over the entire power and governs the government coup out of a responsible environmental policy, which the Christian People's Party and the Left have always stood for. That's why it would be very important to get some advice from the Christian People's Party and the Left on how SV shouldn't do it when we're going into a red-green alliance, just to avoid the situation they're in. For SV's part, I think it's our strength after the 2005 elections that determine how things are going with the environmental nation of Norway. SV is concerned that we should become an environmental nation, and we should also be driven through it in the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e624	The representative has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e629	In the Workers' Party, we emphasise that we will further process natural resources to secure jobs and industry, and to do the best for the environment. This is why the Workers' Party is fighting for the industrial cluster in Grenland to have a gas tube. Uncertainty has arisen in relation to SV's attitude to domestic gas use and how to do so. SV in Grenland has said that they want gas pipes and that they want a gas power plant with CO2 handling in Grenland. The setting, on page 30, says that SV does not want pipes, but that they want a boat. My question to the representative Langeland will be: Can he clarify what SV is going for here? Do they go for a boat, as they say in the setting, or for a pipe, as they say in Grenland?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e641	Like the Workers' Party, which is a large party, SV is also a large party. That means that in this case there are different views in Grenland, just as in the Labour Party, as far as I understand, there are different views when it comes to protecting or expanding the Web. I know a lot of good people in the Labour Party who have a very reasonable view. So when it comes to gas pipes to Grenland, we don't know how long we have a deal this time either, because now the government has changed parties when it comes to climate, and it can change parts again. But we have a deal with the government party – with the Right, with the Christian People's Party and with the Left – about the gas policy in Norway. We've reconciled it because the Labour Party was going to have $3 billion on the table right away. Then they were forced to come to us and participate in a sensible gas policy. I personally, and a number in SV, now mean that the boat as a means of transport is the best, but the party should decide during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e650	If we bring the Christian People's Party-Left reasoning to Langeland to an end, the result is that SV's environmental policy will be lost with the Workers' Party. Klungland from the Workers' Party gave us earlier today a touching description of the will for common policies. It was this red-dark red-with a little green-cut option that had an excellent common policy. Now we see that in the energy and environmental fields they have three to four joint proposals of 44 opposition proposals. The proposals are probably the most to regard as Christmas greetings – very little obligating; they do not indicate a political direction. Moreover, the SV and the Workers' Party do not have a single common proposal. Is it a problem for SV that they are going to go into a government election campaign over New Year with an energy and environmental policy in which they have such marginally in common with their main partner?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e660	It's all right with Christmas greetings. They must not be appreciated. But to the same thing as Right, it's clear that we see challenges. The Christian People's Party is opposed to self-determined abortion – and is in government with the Right. The right is for the EU – and the Christian People's Party is against it. In general, the Right is a great party when it comes to environmental policy, and it now shows them when they force the others into the environment they are now in. That's exactly what I'm saying. If SV is to come into the situation we want, together with the Labour Party and the Center Party – the work has started a long time ago, it should not start over New Year – there are challenges to the issues we are discussing today, about energy. On the environment side, we can say a lot, in fact, for example. open-air and universal access, but it is thus a major challenge when the Right and Labour Party – the two major – meet together as they do in EU cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e665	There has been a lot of talk about Snow White today. It is important to remember that despite the exceedances, Snow White is a profitable project. Companies in North Norway have received deliveries for over 2 billion kroner for the Snow White project. In West Finland, business has received deliveries for NOK 1.6 billion. I don't think you should forget that when the situation is like it is in Finnmark, and especially in some coastal municipalities, which are struggling with high unemployment. So the representative, Langeland, said something that was quite interesting: the solution was that the fish was going back to Finnmark. Where is the representative of Langeland going to get that fish? Is that supposed to be from Troms? Is he going to pick up that fish from the coastal environments in Troms that is so far getting better, is it Nordland that's going to get soft, or is it Lofoten that's going to get sweat to get the fish back?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e672	I note that the Progress Party does not respond to the challenge posed by the Rana community, but still does well to fail the Rana community today, by voting against the proposal to provide the industry with transitional arrangements. I'm sorry, but they're gonna hunt me down in Rana. When it comes to the question of Snow White, it becomes profitable, as it turns out, the excesses are coming. But as it looks, it's going to be. I was in Hammerfest last weekend, and there is of course a desire to spread the activity and the workplaces close to this. Everyone can understand that. So to this with the fish, whether to take him from Tromsø town, or where to take him from. If you do as the Progress Party and the Right say, you leave the fish to the big, powerful terns, those who can just sweep up all the fish at zero and nothing – as they have now done – and don't let the coastal fishermen get the resource, it's what the representative says. EN's policy is that coastal fishermen should fish in their area and that the fish should be processed locally. That's our starting point, not centralizing this, as the Progress Party adds up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e681	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e684	It becomes natural that protection characterizes some of the article when it comes from a state that has 109 protected areas – and several are on its way. The state, which is Uppland, is well above the national average in percent in terms of protection. It is the opinion of the Centre Party that efforts to manage established protection areas need to be significantly strengthened. Protected areas need to be developed from being a handicap to housing and industrialisation to becoming a local community resource. It is not without reason that local communities are concerned about different types of protection. This is the main concern of the business community. It should be positive for us in this house that throughout the country there is a desire for living settlements that fight against depopulation and for different types of nutritional development. We need to understand that it can be directly harmful that the big community imposes different forms of protection in many places, precisely because the local population has managed resources so well that they have gradually become protective. The so-called mountain text was presented in the revised national budget for 2003, and it was well received at the time. The hearing bodies pointed unequivocally to the need for increased administrative efforts in national parks. It is regrettable that the good wishes for more active use of protection areas have not been followed up by means and concrete measures. I would particularly like to point to one point that should have a high priority. It is to draw up crop rotation plans for all existing national parks. It's almost uneasiness, but Rondane National Park has been around for 40 years, and it still doesn't have a care plan. Such a plan is an important basis for differentiating the use of the different parts of the national park and facilitating increased tourism and business use. For Rondane National Park, this has led to the fact that they cannot even print a loop map, because the lines are not clear. It should be realistic to be able to draw up management plans for all national parks and large areas of landscape protection during 2005 and 2006. At present, local management tests are being carried out in four major protection areas. Among other things, the Dovrejell Council is involved in one of the important pilot projects for local protection area management. This work must be supported and expanded further. There needs to be stronger coordination of the efforts made with oversight, information and organisation for increased use in the protection areas. The centre party wants to strengthen research efforts at the intersection of energy and the environment. There's several reasons for that. First of all, in order to achieve the national targets for greenhouse gas emission reduction, a faster transition to more environmentally friendly energy use will be necessary. We believe that the Energy Fund should have been the strength of the State budget, so that the funds could be used for its own bioenergy programme. Enova should be responsible for the final design of the bet. Aid for investments in district and nearby heating installations, for the installation of waterborne heat in public buildings and for waterborne heat and pellet stoves in private dwellings should be included in the programme. This will develop the heat market so that a greater part of the unused wood in Norwegian forests could be put into use. In addition, each TWh generates bioenergy 300–500 jobs. It is also necessary — at least smartly — to make energy use more flexible. Remote heating is an important keyword here. It was disappointing that the government had initially omitted the dithering of net tariffs, but it was a little straightforward in the budget agreement. But it should be at least 40 million. kr. This has proved to be a cost-effective and accurate system that has meant a great deal to cut the electricity costs of the households and enterprises with the highest network rentals. 2005 is the year of outdoor life. It's getting completely out of control, but of course there should be more money. Something that didn't cost money is the plan of areas where the defense should be disposed of. It had given an outstanding chance to secure important areas in the beach zone and in the neighbourhoods of open-air use for all. And then, finally, I want to deal with the proposal that the Central Party is all about. Finally, I would like to mention that there is a note on page 36 of the setting, where it says that everyone except the Center Party is aware that Statnett has a system that makes it cheaper to deploy power in Bergen and Middle Norway. I have to say that we have also become familiar with it, and that we should have been on the note.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e710	The representative, Inger S. None, has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e715	The current Minister of Energy Eivind Reiten of the Senterpartiet was what we must call the father of the Energy Act. Now he's the group leader of Hydro. Now the flow of animals is for us to produce aluminium in Norway – but it's too little to build up new power, so says the Center Party's own Eivind Reiten. What does the Centre Party really think about such exploitation of its own interests? What will the Central Party do to prevent further development as the one we've seen is going on, where the industry is moving out and energy is not being built out because it's too expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e722	I have often been met with Eivind Reiten as the father of the Energy Act, and in many ways I am proud that he is a central party man. It was very good that happened with the Energy Act, and it has worked for very many years, but it's like the law that with everyone else's laws, that one has to make changes when it's necessary. I do not ignore that should happen with the Energy Act as well. Probably we should have a little bit more in terms of security of supply. We can get back to that. Then the Workers' Party is concerned about the Centre's vision of industry. Then I just want to remind you that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre are today together on a proposal that concerns the Mo i Rana industry, where we believe that the power contract case should be taken out and re-examined. It's precisely in terms of helping the industry in District Norway, which needs it very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e729	I fully agree with Inger Enger that this happened very well in connection with the Energy Act. It has worked relatively well in relation to the intentions put forward, especially in terms of price developments, as prices have been below the level we had before we got the Energy Act in place. So I'm behind the change that took place at the beginning of the 1990s. I record, of course, that the Labour Party voted in favour of the Energy Act in its time. My question to Inger Enger is about protection, because the Senter Party has called for a so-called protective break. Can Inger Enger say something more about what you want to use such a protective break for, how long do you think this should last, and what the consequences might be if this stops completely?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e736	First of all, I must say that I am very pleased that Rahm is behind what I said about the Energy Act. In this room, one has to be careful to be happy with all the support you can get, whether it's big or small – and the Energy Act is actually a very big thing. In terms of protection, the Centre Party is also concerned about it, but we feel that the Government has been very eager to protect, in fact, before compensation arrangements in some contexts have been in place. And that is in the light of the fact that a Document No has now been promoted. Eight proposals, which lie in the Storting, that we want a protective break. This means that one will investigate the consequences – how protection has worked in the areas where people have had it, how it has affected population development and how it has worked on business. We simply want an impact assessment in terms of protection. It's not fixed in time how long this should last, but I feel that it will give a pretty good hint in which direction you should go here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e744	The working party agreed that the Energy Act had a lot of good work. But we had, as we've had in retrospect, and as we now have, a problem with the fact that when there's too little power in a market, and you have a free market, the price will be so high that you can justify market prices as subsidies. I think that's what the government is trying to do, because the market price in Norway may now be much higher than, for example. in Iceland, which has a surplus of power. It may be much higher than in France, which may have a surplus of power. Therefore, the Government is dealing with a market in Norway, saying that the market price is so high. It's right in the market in Norway. But the question is what the Central Party will do to get that market price down, and I hope the representative can answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e751	As you know, it's easier to ask than to answer. I could also imagine that Klungland had elaborated it a little bit more, instead of just asking questions. But it is clear that in a market with too little power, prices will rise. That's why it's important to gain more power. We are among others occupied with this with mini and micro power plants, and the NVE has actually produced a report that says you can get 15-20 TWh out of such small power plants. In addition, we have this with the restoration of existing power plants. We can also get 10-15 TWh of bioenergy. Then I think we should have more than enough! I think that in debates like this, we often forget about one another. Our consumption should not enter – what to say – heaven, it must be important that we are also willing to reduce consumption and to think new.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e758	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e761	Norway is a major energy nation and therefore has a specific responsibility to make fossil energy cleaner, to promote renewable energy and to find solutions that streamline the use of energy. Yesterday, we debated CO2 allowances in Odelstinget, and the government got a pass on enough of a tool to reduce CO2 emissions. The left believes that a European quota market is a complement to national measures, and we are therefore clear that at least half of the commitments we have made through the Kyoto agreement will be taken nationally. Energy policy is crucial for national greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, the Left is very concerned about implementing an energy reform in which unused renewable heat resources are used, so that current currently used for heating is released for other purposes. Left thinks it needs to be stimulated to establish a heat market based on renewable energy and waste energy, to prevent Norway from making more dependent on fossil energy sources, such as oil and gas heating, or impurising gas power. It is not appropriate for Left to grant new concessions for the construction of highly impurising and old-fashioned gas power plants. The left is strongly dependent on waiting for the construction of gas power plants until we have CO2 handling in place, and is pleased to note that the Government is increasing the research effort on environmentally friendly gas technology. One hundred and fifty million. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has at its disposal research, development and innovation actions related to gas power plant cleaning technology. The left does not want new, large watercourses to be developed, but will stimulate the more efficient use of existing water power plants, as well as the development of mini- and micro-power plants where this does not conflict with protection values. The left will increase the use of wind energy. Before granting permission to new projects, Left argues that these must be kept to a minimum possible level of conflict in relation to the environment and to high energy efficiency. In order to ensure the use and exploitation of other renewable energy, such as geothermal, solar, wave/temporal, osmosis, bioenergy, etc., the price of electricity is decisive. The left will stimulate the use of renewable energy and heat by sustaining and reinforcing the electricity charge and increasing fuel oil charges, while providing positive incentives for the use of new renewable energy. This will allow Norway to maintain its position as an energy nation, even if the oil and gas extraction is gradually reduced. Norway will go from being a fossil nation to becoming a renewable nation, moving from fossil industry to renewable and forward-looking industries. The government supplies several of these areas. In particular, I will bring forward the oil and energy ministry's strengthening of research and innovation aimed at the development of the future clean energy system, RENERGI, under this hydrogen. Norway has a special responsibility as a major exporter of oil and gas to make fossil energy cleaner. Therefore, the Left is satisfied that the Government has achieved a significant increase in petroleum research. The strong commitment will help the petroleum sector to survive both in the long term and to continue to be a major contributor to the financing of the welfare society and industrial development throughout the country. The left is pleased that the Ministry of the Environment is intensifying the work on new forest protection, increasing the contribution to environmentally friendly urban development and increasing the efforts to keep track of mountain reefs and wild salmon populations in Norway. The left will also promote efforts to improve local air quality and ensure better use of new and more environmentally friendly technologies. The government has been able to introduce a tax incentive for the introduction of sulphur-free petrol and car diesel in Norway. Finally, I would like to add that, of course, the Left is behind the comments of the Right and Christian People's Party in this position and the Budget Agreement with the Progress Party. Finally, the Socialist Left Party representative, Hallgeir Langeland, wanted advice. He doesn't need any advice! I think it might be time for the Socialist Left Party to give some credit to this government for a much more offensive environmental policy than any previous government has led. In fact, we want to sit in this government and pursue forward-looking environmental policies. Left wants Norway to be an environmental policy priority country. Norway should go from being part of the problem to being part of the solution, and I actually believe that this government is the best way to implement measures to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e807	Although the Workers' Party's alternative state budget is far better than what the Government proposed, the actual budgetary agreements between the Progress Party and the Government Party also provide positive elements. Here I am thinking specifically of the post of liming agents. That's good, but it's actually the only thing. Enterprise policy challenges are going in the wrong direction. For the Workers' Party, employment, more money for municipalities, more for school and more for health and care are far more important than large cuts in the district bet, cut off subsidies and distribution of taxes to well-off families and individuals. Last year, the Labour Party was able to get more progress in taking more of the natural gas into domestic use. The innovation centre in Grenland is an important establishment in the establishment of a national gas technology programme to drive environmentally friendly use of gas for energy purposes, which will also include CO2 management. We have long felt that the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left have trodden on the brake when we in the Labour Party have wanted to go ahead in this work. Already three years ago, we proposed the creation of such an innovation company in Grenland. The fact that the government has now been pushed into a different vision may indicate that they are now releasing some of the brakes. I'm very happy about that. The current budgetary position is therefore very important in developing environmentally friendly gas power technologies, and thus also important for Grenland and Telemark, where the innovation company to develop such technologies is located. This is an important step forward in getting gas and natural gas to Grenland, an energy resource that industry and its population have long sought. In the case of infrastructure to obtain the gas, including: to Grenland, I am less pleased with the plurality and the budget comrades at Stortinget. Unfortunately, it was also not closed this time to a state-owned company to invest in gas transport infrastructure. We actually expected that. Here, too, the Progress Party is failing. Throughout the fall, in several newspaper gaps, they have produced themselves as the guarantor of the landing of gas in pipes to Grenland, but it turns out, so far, to be empty talk. The working party does not give up for that reason. We'll be at every opportunity, and it's also worth noting that several reports state that the use of gas is crucial for the creation of value in South-East Europe. If we are to achieve this, it is important to build infrastructure for the transport of natural gas. Here, the state must participate through subsidies and by creating a state-owned investment company together with other investors, e.g. industry, energy companies and industry, or else, will invest in long-term natural gas transport infrastructure. I see, as I said, no big light point in this setting, but we have to keep going. If one is to make such a market work, it is decisive that the goods can be transported to the consignee. The Labour Party wants the State to have a responsibility for building infrastructure, and believes that this can be equated with other State infrastructure such as road, rail, powerlines and the like. In this context, I refer to the working party's alternative budget, where we proposed adding DKK 3 billion in equity to such a company.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e833	According to the 2004 World Energy Outlook of the IEA, it is again confirmed that the world’s energy needs will be 60 pst. higher in 2030 than today, and that fossil energy carriers will be the dominant source to meet this energy demand. For me, it is clear that the world needs more energy, and that parts of this energy need will also be in the form of fossil fuels. It is my ambition that Norway will continue to play a role as a leading energy nation in the future. The petroleum sector is of great importance to Norway. Today, we have only used one third of the resources on the continental shelf. The Government will facilitate the further development of the petroleum sector by ensuring that the Norwegian continental shelf remains an attractive area for investment, value creation and industrial development in Norway. The Government has proposed to increase the appropriations for petroleum research by more than 60 pst. in the next year's budget, to ensure that the petroleum sector remains a significant contributor to the financing of the welfare society and industrial development throughout the country. We are actively working to help increase the extraction of petroleum from Norwegian base, among others. by stimulating higher exploration activity and increasing efforts for extraction from existing fields. An offensive commitment to research and development in the petroleum sector is a crucial element in this context. The 2005 budget provides for an overall increase in public funding of about 113 million. kr. I am pleased that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is behind this priority in the budget. The strong growth of petroleum research is important in order to meet the challenges of maximising the resources on the base and not least in order to increase the value creation of the petroleum industry. Today, some 75 000 people work in the petroleum industry, of which 43 000 are directly employed in the supply industry. Here we also find some of our strongest global actors. The 2005 budget also proposed a strengthening of the Government’s contribution to the internationalisation of the Norwegian petroleum industry. This will strengthen Intsok and Petrad and help to provide the industry with development opportunities as well as activities on Norwegian continental shelf. It is important to lay the groundwork for internationalisation while there is still a strong industry with activity on Norwegian soil. After 35 years, the Norwegian oil and gas industry has developed into a strong cluster of nutrients where the entire breadth of Norwegian oil and gas competence and not least technology is sought in most petroleum provinces. The turnover of Norwegian suppliers has increased in the period 1995–2003 from 15.5 to approx. DKK 35 billion. The government’s petroleum policy aims to maintain a competitive Norwegian-based supplier industry. Secure access to energy is becoming increasingly important for the functioning of a modern society. The dominant role of hydropower in Norway makes energy supply vulnerable to river fluctuations. Norway has a wide range of potential for value creation through the very use of natural resources. We need more power and a balanced development of new energy production. The focus on the conversion of energy production contributes to a greater role of energy sources other than hydropower in energy supply in the coming years. The government has increased the ambitions for energy conversion. In the new renegotiated agreement with Enova, Enova will contribute to new environmentally friendly energy production and energy savings of a total of 12 TWh by 2010. It's an increase of 2 TWh, or 20 pst. relative to the original target. The resources available for energy conversion have increased by about 90 million. NOK 660 million. kr in 2005. The increase in the revenue of the Energy Fund comes as a result of an increase in the application of the network tariff. The government wants a greater share of our natural gas resources to be used domestically. It will make an important contribution to a more flexible energy supply. The government is contributing to the financing of infrastructure so that gas can gradually become available in new areas of the country. For 2005, the Government has proposed to allocate 24 million. to natural gas infrastructure. The proposal, in the context of the mandate of undertakings, is intended to consolidate the long-term investment in this area. The government also attaches great importance to the fact that increased domestic use of gas can provide better conditions for the creation of value added, energy supply and, in particular, the environment. That's why this new innovation activity for environmentally friendly gas technologies in Grenland is very important now, and I'm very pleased that in the new year we'll have the opportunity to start up with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e861	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e864	The Norwegian power-intensive industry may arise in a situation where it does not obtain new power contracts because the power companies wish to use the market for which the Government is currently responsible. The storm came with a request decision to the Government in our house, where the government was assigned to return with long-term energy agreements to the industry. The response from the Government was that it is not allowed to enter into agreements below market price. I have to ask the Council of State where she finds in the request decision that the price should be below market price. The government has all the tools needed in relation to the energy market. So we ask, what is the situation in the EU/EEA area? The government's answer is that they have not examined it at all. Why has the Government not taken the request decision seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e871	The Government has taken this request decision seriously. We have given an assessment in the budget proposal on the issue of new contracts under government-determined conditions for industry. I just want to remind the representative of Klungland that the last time the Stortinget dealt with this issue of new power agreements, at the end of the 1990s, there was a broad political consensus that the offer of new agreements should be a transitional arrangement and that businesses increasingly had to ensure their power needs within the ordinary market organisation framework. I have looked back a little and looked at what the representatives said in different contexts. I can mention that there were not least three-four representatives from the Workers' Party who then stressed very strongly that they were united on the policy and on the basis that was then laid. I can quote, among other things: What Aud Blattmann said: ‘It is a pity to say that the presentation has been received with ovations. With the strong remarks made by the Ministry on the restrictions imposed by the EEA Agreement, Stortinget was presented with a case which allowed little room for change by the Stortinge.’ I can also refer to Gunn Karin Gjul, who performed the exact same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e885	In its submission, the Council of State said that the petroleum sector is of great importance to Norway. Of course, I agree with that. That is why we must constantly focus on the competitiveness of the socket. We must not be blinded by high oil prices. These are just as high all over the world, and in no way does Norwegian base give any advantage, perhaps rather the opposite. Convergence came back for a time with a report showing how to achieve profitability in less marginal fields and increase resource use in existing fields in the final phase. The government, unfortunately, showed little interest in these greps. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State if she will now brush dust from this report, read it again and propose the necessary steps to ensure that the Norwegian base remains an interesting area for the international oil companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e892	We still have great opportunities on the Norwegian base. As I said in my post, only one third of our resources are actually used. This means that there is a great potential there that we can focus on in the coming years, in relation to new search areas, but also, of course, in relation to areas where there is already activity on the socket. It is a major challenge just to be involved in looking at what can be done both to get more easily and more extracted, even in relation to existing fields. Therefore, they are very important as the government has now taken steps to invest in increased research and development, so that we can find new technologies, new products that can help us to get more out of the fields that are actually there. I am aware that the industry has pointed to the costs and the tax haven and asked for changes to be made. I also know, as the representative of the Vaksdal is aware, that the government in the revision said that we made small adjustments. I didn't expect the industry, now that they've got a new government council, to run the doors down in hopes of getting new promises. But the door is not slammed again for the future. It will also be possible to look at new measures in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e904	The national councils, which are, of course, EU and EEA members, are also dependent on smaller governance and more marked governance as a starting point. Then there will be fewer and fewer tools in the toolbox, and as the state councillor Gabrielsen said here a while ago, she's almost empty. And that's exactly what it's about when it's about the industrial power regime. In 1998, the SV, in cooperation with the LO and the environmental movement, proposed a regime of 12.50 øre targeting environmental and climate action. But we didn't get to do that – it was the plural here. They wouldn't even try it out. What's a little strange is that when a caller asks you to check with other countries, one doesn't. It means that one is not interested in having an industrial power regime operating in Norway. There is no interest in helping the Rana industry, for example. Finally, a question. Will Årum-saka be drawn up with Hafslund at the meeting on 15 December?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e915	As I said in a previous line change here today, the Storting has actually been behind the broad policy that has been in force in relation to future power contracts. St. pp. No 52 for 1998-1999 was actually presented by the then State Council Marit Arnstad of the Senterpartiet, St.prp. No 78 for 1999-2000 was presented by the Minister for Oil and Energy Olav Aksensen from the Workers' Party, and it was Anne Enger Lahnstein who acted as Minister for Oil and Energy when St.prp. No 52 were debated in Stortinget. I have noticed that in fact none of the debaters at the time contributed to weakening the relationship with the requirements that ESA imposed on us in this matter. I have also noticed that if the government of Stoltenberg had considered it possible and desirable to meet the industry with a more generous offer, which was requested at the time, and which was set up in St.prp. No 52, then they actually had an opportunity to do that, but they didn't. The only thing that has changed since then is that the Workers' Party is now in opposition, and they get good help from SV to promote the points of view that they did not at the time try to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e922	The councils were in their intervention that safe energy is absolutely necessary, and that a lot of hydropower makes the situation vulnerable. Of course, she's got that right in many ways. Therefore, energy sources other than hydropower will also be important. The council mentioned fossil fuels, but I'm a little interested in getting into district heating. In the Communication on security of supply, the majority supported the Government's proposal to have a separate system of district heating, and there were high expectations. It is important to extend the district heating network for the use of bioenergy, waste heat and also waste heat. The Council of State has referred to the fact that Enova is going to deal with this. That is enough, if they had had a little more money, because due to the lapse of the 2005 Commitment Act, they will now have less money. I just want to ask, how does the Council of State view this? And will the Council of State come back with a system that is special for district heating?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e933	Yes, Norway is actually very lucky. We have an incredible amount of valuable energy resources. We are well equipped with both oil and gas, but it is also important, as the representative of Mr Enger pointed out, that we also have other types of renewable energy sources. We are well equipped with water, we are well equipped with wind, and yesterday I also agreed to baptize a research platform that goes on wave energy. In Norway, all opportunities are well placed for us to be a very important energy supplier in the future, even in relation to renewable energy. In the case of district heating, the Government has chosen to invest in district heating infrastructure as part of the increased investment through the Energy Fund and Enova. In 2004, the revenue of the Energy Fund increased by more than 90 million. kr, and we believe that this should provide an overall framework to be able to give priority to this important action in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e940	In the case of St.prp. No 52 for 1998-1999, ESA commented on it. That's why St. prp came. No 78 for 1999-2000 afterwards, and as I see it, ESA has not said that it is not EEA-relevant. It's just an opportunity and a cross of thought. But the representative Eva R. Finstad from the Right said in an interview in February 1997: ‘Rights have argued for a deferred relapse scheme as long as the power goes to the concessional purpose, i.e. for industrial production.» That's also an opportunity. I don't understand why the Council of State has the passive attitude that when we see that this goes wrong, we're not going to try to do anything new. I don't understand that the government has not followed up its parties here on the Storting and actually tried to do something, because they can't actually say that they did, based on the answers we've received.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e952	The review of the EEA rules shows that it is not possible to give industry new power contracts with conditions under market conditions by imposing requirements relating to energy efficiency or security of supply. I think it's very important that we go back to St.prp. No 52 for 1998-1999, where the system of new powers-determined agreements was intended to be a transitional arrangement, which meant that enterprises increasingly had to ensure their power needs within the ordinary market organisation framework. There were three elements of the staging proposition that were supported under this. Firstly, it was foreseen that contracts would be stepped down from 2010 until the end of 2020. Secondly, the Government concluded that the companies offered new contracts had to meet parts of the power demand in the market. And thirdly, it was decided that the system of allocating power to new projects should be terminated. New projects had to compete equally with other consumers in terms of power availability. As I said earlier, the only difference from that time – since the Workers' Party has supported that policy – is that the Workers' Party is now in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e959	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e962	I thought I'd say a little bit about the Ministry of the Environment's budget and the budgetary agreement we've made. Now there are many who have boasted of the good budgetary agreement we have made. I would like to add some comments to that. We got 20 million. kr more to lime. Increasing those appropriations is one thing we in the Progress Party have been fighting for for many years. Finally, we have succeeded. Granting money to lime is a good way to remedy environmental damage. It is a good environmental action. This means that the population receives fine recreational areas with fishing opportunities. When all the parties have been up in the pulpit and given credit for giving more money to lime and pointing to the importance of it, I hope and believe that the Council of State notices exactly that. For the Council of State does not do that, and if it does what has been common in the past, namely to cut in that area, the Council of State will have trouble. He will be allowed to experience the opposite of heaven. As the Council of State comes from the Christian People's Party, I suppose he knows what the opposite of heaven is. The working party has also in its alternative budget added a little bit to liming, but 6 million. To be honest, not much to be impressed with. But there's not much of the Labour Party's policy that impresses me. Another area that becomes important to bet on in the future is the fight against gyro. I fully agree with the representative of Onarheim that we must focus on this. It has to be seen whether it is possible to complete the action plan set up by the Directorate for Nature Management. We have done so in our alternative state budget, and it is expected that the Council of State will follow up on it in the future. Especially important and interesting is the aluminium method you use to control gyro. Gyro control is a good district measure. You probably lose approx. 200-250 million. kr per year due to a lack of income in the watercourses infected with gyro. In many cases, there are areas affected by malnutrition. That's why I expect the Council of State to follow up. There has been some debate on Finnmark and the coast. Let me just remind you that it has not been so many years since the Stortinget dealt with a case about national salmon fjords and salmon rivers. What you did at the time was to protect a lot of areas. These areas were deprived of the possibility of farming. Many of the areas concerned are located in areas with high unemployment today. Just to mention it, the Altafjord, Repparfjord, Porsangerfjord, Tanafjorden, Neiden and Bøkfjorden in Finnmark were protected. There are areas that could have been used for farming, used for value creation, used to create jobs in the districts. But then a large number of people, with SV in their head, chose to make sure that the protection was quite extensive. And that's also how you still get new knowledge. It's about politicians, and it's about some others. Then I find it strange that there are no more politicians who take on board what the research director of NINA has said, that the impact of protecting national salmon fjords should be evaluated before starting round two. But there's a majority on the Big Thing that has chosen to ignore it. It is only the Progress Party that supports the proposal we have promoted to have an evaluation before launching new measures. I must say that disappoints me. Otherwise, I am glad that there was a solid commitment and an increase in the allocation to ship protection. In particular, I'm glad that 6 million is set aside. kr for operating and maintenance grants, for that is where the need is. It does not help to restore a ship if you do not have the means to operate it or to operate the day-to-day maintenance. I am glad that there was a majority not only to increase the post office, but also to use funds for operation and maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e979	There is no doubt that heaven is within the limits of the parliamentary language. The opposite of heaven, however, the president may think is on the frontier, even though it was elegantly formulated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e982	First of all, I must say that I am very pleased that a majority in the Committee has decided to lift the issue of the long-term power contracts out of this budget debate and rather carry out a thorough discussion in the new year. Unfortunately, I am not given the opportunity to participate in that debate, for natural reasons, and I therefore want to add some comments to it as well as to the proposal on which we are associated with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, which is distributed in the Chamber. Today, the political long-term power contracts are being phased out, which will affect Mo i Rana from 2005, as one of the first industrial communities. At the same time, Rana has a company that accounts for Norway's largest mercury point emissions, namely the scrap recycling company Fundia. However, a mercury treatment plant has been identified which will also reduce its energy consumption by approximately. 20 pst. The problem is financing, which is becoming particularly difficult due to a time-lag with an expected increase in the price of power resulting from the termination of the power contracts. At the same time, we know that Fundia is not the only company in Norway with an energy saving potential. PIL and Enova have mapped the savings potential for the powerful industry to be 5.3 TWh, plus 1 TWh of waste heat that can be recovered. As we know, there are two ways to reduce the energy costs to industry: either through reduced power prices or through reduced energy consumption. The obvious solution is to provide a new generation of power contracts that link power prices to investments in energy efficiency improvement. This can be done by the State through its ownership of Statkraft, and this can be ensured by the Storktinget by linking this with the dividend policy. Fundia could thus become one of the first pilots to test this model. State power and Fundia could enter into an agreement for a price lower than the market price, in return for Fundia's commitment to invest in the said sewage treatment plant. For the company it would not play a major role if the funding came as an annual ‘contribution’ or as a one-off sum. At the same time, this would be a test in relation to the EEA Agreement, whether there was a solution that allowed itself to be generalised and used in several industrial establishments. Given the opening up of the EEA Agreement to State aid for environmental improvements, such a model should not initially be very problematic. In this way, it is possible to ensure that much more powerful enterprises get a new generation of long-term contracts. The potential is great, precisely because the absence of energy efficiency has been some of the medal's backside in relation to the long-term power contracts. The low power price has just made sure that today there is a great saving potential that is just waiting to be ‘harvest’. In view of this, I think it is a pity that the Progress Party would not support the proposal that has been distributed, given the concern that they have expressed in the past about the powerful industry's wider framework, and the promises that they have made in Mo in Rana. But I hope that at least when we come to the final consideration of this matter in the new year, they will be able to separate themselves from their friends in the government parties, and that they will also be able to think of closing their eyes so that in a possible new power regime you can put great emphasis on the environment and energy saving, and rather focus on reducing costs. For, unfortunately, once again, we see that the energy and environmental budget is being adopted by means of the Progress Party. In return, the Progress Party – fortunately – has only received a few buttons and slides back. In fact, they have revived the alignment of transmission tariffs – we are pleased – but with a strikingly less fortunate result than at the Workers' Party's settlement with the Government last year, and of course far away from the need, which EBL has estimated to be around 60 million. kr, which is what SV has proposed in its alternative budget. This means that many electricity customers, including households, farms, companies and municipalities in the South-Trundelag, encounter tougher times. Today, half of the 40 million goes. kr that has been granted this year to reduce the costs for electricity customers in the districts, to just South-Trandelag, to the network companies TrønderEnergy and Hemne Kraftlag. SV believes that electricity costs should vary with the consumption, and not depending on where you live. Equally hostile to districts is cut as the Progress Party has provided for protection and environmental measures in watercourses. If there's something we don't need, there's less money for this purpose. On the contrary, the need is great, and there will be greater awareness of the on-going climate change. But these guys don't believe anything in the Progress Party, so maybe that's all right? Given that we have a government that insists on closing the eyes of the Norwegian Research Council's clear warnings that there is too little research on the consequences and adaptation to climate change in Norway and that at least 34 million have been allocated. NOK too little for this purpose for next year, it might not have been so strange that they agreed, then. For the Progress Party, it's used tones, but I had honestly expected a far more offensive line from the Government. In view of this, I hope that yesterday's quota agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party is not the first step in the direction of an even stronger right triangle of environmental and energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1003	‘Each generation has a responsibility to preserve and manage nature for the benefit of its descendants.’ These opening words in the budget proposal point out the direction that the Government will follow. The government has submitted an offensive environmental protection budget for 2005. We have prioritised efforts in important areas. I am pleased that the Committee has concluded on these priorities and has seen, through comments and proposals, a living interest in developing environmental protection policies and contributing to sustainable development. The extensive research report Arctic Climate Impact Assessment shows that the world is out of course in the climate field, and that the consequences can become drastic in our time and especially for our successors. Russia's 'yes' to Kyoto strengthens its efforts to change its course. When the Kyoto Protocol is now ratified, we will work hard for a more ambitious global climate regime after 2012. In the year 2005 we increase the opportunities for outdoor life monthly. People need better open-air access. I'm thinking of green areas in the big cities and beach areas. The Budget Week shall focus specifically on activities for children and young people. It is very important that children and young people get good natural experiences and good environmental and health habits. Outdoor activities should be for everyone. Actions shall specifically concern children and young people, the disabled and those with a forward-looking cultural background. In the draft budget we have a great deal of effort in relation to the protection of forests. Area protection is an important element of rich open-air life and the preservation of biological deficiency. After all the decisions in the previous deforestation plan have now been implemented, the Government is intensifying its work on new forest protection. We give priority to the voluntary protection and use of State forest areas in forest protection. The mandates allow us to keep up the pace of the National Park Plan and protect ten new areas in 2005. The budget also includes additional funds for the management and care of protected areas. Cultural memory has a self-esteem in telling about the history of man and different cultures, so that one can understand today's societies and make decisions for the future. The government wants cultural memory to be a resource and an experience base. We're increasing the rights to the protection of cultural memory. In this way, we can strengthen the efforts for the restoration, maintenance and fire protection of the stave churches and valuable church art in these churches. With increased privileges, we must revitalise the cultural memory of the coastal zone. The government is also investing in world heritage and securing important national ruins. We allow more money to cover the cost of archaeological excavations in the context of small private measures. In the 2005 budget, the government has seen a course for cultural memory policy. We prioritise peaceful cultural memory in private ownership and coastal culture. We will keep this direction clear and clear in the big message about cultural memory protection, which is coming early next year. Society needs to be made more accessible to everyone. We are increasing our efforts to create a more accessible society for those with disabilities. This is why we have presented an action plan that obliges state agencies to implement nearly 100 actions. The initiative by the Ministry of the Environment is close to fivefold and larger than ever before. Our major long-term challenges include the work on health and environmentally damaging chemicals. We allow more than before to clean up contaminated soil, water and sediment. In this way, we can complete the clean-up process in impurity due to about 100 priority locations, and we will have to carry out investigations in about 500 new sites. We will also continue to work on cleaning up the contaminated seabed along the coast. PCBs are one of the most dangerous pollutants. We will therefore also give high priority to ensuring the defence of the management of PCB-containing insulating glass and ensure that PCB-containing capacitors are decommissioned. The government is strengthening the polar regions' efforts. Svalbard Environmental Protection Fund will be created in 2005. The capital and returns shall relate to environmental protection measures on Svalbard. In Antarctica, Troll Research Station will be upgraded to an all-year station. The government has increased the budget of the Ministry of the Environment, and the majority of the population has increased further, so that the budget is strengthened by 4.4 pst. This shows the will for an active environmental effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1032	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1035	4.4 pst. increase in the Ministry of the Environment’s budget – and not a penny more for preventive measures in the case of predators. But that's not what I was supposed to ask the minister. Unfortunately, one still sees examples of the fact that the rights of all people are no longer, of course. Therefore, active policies must be pursued at all times in order to ensure open-air and recreational opportunities for the general public. Many properties that the government plans to sell — among others: Do the Defense – can be used by everyone if they are not bought up by capital investors. Therefore, in June of this year, the Stortinget asked, when the case of the Eastern Islands was being dealt with, that a review be carried out of all the properties that the State is planning to sell, in order to find out which properties are suitable for use by the public. That plan has not been made by the Government. It has provided a list of properties. [[The President clubs.]] Does not the Minister for the Environment feel the need to create a plan for the sale of these properties, or is it to be done by the approach to entry? Did the government learn nothing from the East Poles? I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1042	The number of lines is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1045	I am pleased with the commitment of both the representative Fossum and the working party to ensuring the universality of active outdoor life. It is also a strong wish from a collective government. It is the government's aim that the areas that are considered to be of great interest when it comes to outdoor life should not be put out for sale or overdone to private property, but still be in public ownership, when it concerns the defence of its property. There is a work in progress I can also convey that the Directorate for Nature Management will be involved in this work, just to make such an assessment, and the Government has also signalled that it will come back to this work in the revised national budget. So in the years of outdoor life, the government is just following up the signals of the representative Fossum. We would like to ensure the interests of the general public. So it's going to be followed up in relation to the defense's property, and we're going back to the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1050	The Progress Party has made two proposals on environmental protection organisations. One is about the need to develop a new regulatory framework for financial support based on equal criteria, and the other is about to remove financial support for those organisations that break the law and engage in criminal acts. Of course, we don't get a majority for this year either, but we think it's right to promote this proposal. We are particularly concerned that Nature and Youth are engaged in illegal actions, simply because it is an organization that is going to recruit young people, and we think it is too wrong for them to be involved in crime. We see, however, that the government wants to support it. But the question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State know how much money voluntary environmental protection organisations receive in total over the state budget? Then I think not only of the Ministry of the Environment's budget, but of the whole. If the answer is yes, I would like that overview. If the answer is no, I'm worried.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1055	I would first of all like to thank you for the cooperation that the government party has had with the Progress Party in relation to the budget, even though I, when the representative Korsberg compares this with heaven, have even greater expectations of a sky than the representative of Korsberg has. But we are pleased with the cooperation we have achieved. In relation to voluntary environmental protection organisations, the Ministry of the Environment provides support to organisations that are nationwide, have democratic governance bodies and are member-based. We have just chosen to prioritize this through 15 pst. increase to these organisations, which do such an important job. But I am opposed to withdrawing support from the organizations that may disagree with us for political reasons, just as I am opposed to removing state support from the political parties that broke the promise either by civil disobedience or by illegal political advertising. I think we should promote the interests of environmental organisations and accept a certain lack of commitment to environmental policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1062	Nevertheless, many fine words are a reality that the Government's proposals for the State budget do not imply any increase in the appropriations for environmental research. And in the light of the latest reports that have come in relation to precisely man-made climate change, it turns out that the need is greater than ever. In its budgetary consultation opinions, the Norwegian Research Council pointed out that only Norway is researching the impact of and adaptation to climate change in Norway, which should be a matter of course. Buildings, defence installations, cultural memories, roads, railways, airports, ports, water storage facilities, water and sewerage systems – everything has been established under yesterday’s climate conditions. According to the Research Council, the state budget that is now adopted through the Progress Party results in this part of climate research being largely uncovered. They have identified an additional need of 34 million. kr. Does the Council of State feel confident that the State budget contributes to sufficient research? Does the Ministry of the Environment have competence around these special issues that the Council of State wants us to share, or does he see that the Research Council actually has a timely indication?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1069	I like the representative Vaggen Malvik who is very busy that we should give priority to research. That just shows the report I came up with in my post, which went to the Arctic Climate Impact Assessment. It's a big research report, with over 300 researchers, and Norway has had a leadership role. And it's actually nice to be able to say that within climate research Norway is in the front row. We have a great, good professional environment. We have not at least had a job in relation to the arctic strokes, where we are in the front row. I can also say about the report, which was a great international work, that Norway had the next leader in that work. Therefore, Norway has given priority to climate research under various governments. That is what this government is going to do, and we are also going to do with the budget that we have now submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1074	The so-called mountain text was presented in the revised national budget for 2003, and it was well received at the time. The hearing bodies pointed unequivocally to the need for increased administrative efforts in national parks. It is regrettable that the good wishes for more active use of protection areas have not been followed up by means and concrete measures. The most inconvenient organisations, from business organisations to environmental protection organisations, joined forces to create a network where they said that the mountain text had to be followed up in practice. The only concrete result is that the ban on commercial traffic in national parks has been lifted. Evil tongues would have it that it has led more snowmobiles, and that was probably not exactly the main goal. However, it is clear that there should be development opportunities for more industries in this area. What will the Council of State do to soften legislation and provide more resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1083	It's important that we see the possibilities that protection can provide. Tourists who take the trip to Norway are just coming to experience our national parks and the amazing nature we have. Therefore, the government has also seen the need to increase funds for care. And there's an increase of 27 pst. in the budget that we are now presenting, an increase of close to 5 million. kr. We may be forced to increase it further, but it's important that we look at the possibilities that protection gives us. I want to tell the representative, Inger Enger, that I have met two of her party colleagues, the spokesman in Dovre and the spokesman in Valle, whom I think is precisely a policy in relation to protection that is right for the future and good: to regard protection as a possibility for development locally. The Government wants to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1090	The Workers' Party agrees that each generation has its responsibility to preserve for the coming generation. Therefore, the Labour Party has repeatedly addressed the problems surrounding the privatisation of the shoreline in Norway. Not enough of that, but we have also repeatedly taken up the special situation that has been in the municipality of Kristiansand in relation to the accommodation and construction of sea arches, etc. We've also brought this up elsewhere in the country. Now there was a look-up in the fatherland friend a few days ago that said 800 sea arcs could get amnesty by the municipality of Kristiansand. So those arcs that are illegally constructed are allowed to be cabins. Is this a policy that the Council of State can really stand behind, if he wants to keep for the next generation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1098	I agree with the representative of Klungland that we have to take care of the beach sona. It is important for national policies that are just taking care of them. We have a challenge, not because the policy has been radically changed in any area, but for every year that goes, we have experienced that the stranded zone has been built up. That is why, in my dialogue with the statesmen, I have also asked for a strict practice, asking for national care to be taken to secure the beach sonals in a good way. It's the government's policy, so did Børge Burnde. I also know that the representative of his party colleague Siri Bjerke did the same. But it is a challenge, however, when we see developments, and it must be followed closely. I don't want to comment on any specific issues. They can end up on my desk, so I don't want to go into them, but emphasize that a beach zone policy is important, where one sees the national values, and that means we don't get to build a beach zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1110	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1113	Fortunately, there is a broad political consensus that work for a better environment should be given priority. I'm glad. But I see that both the use of money and the priority are different. We are still reminded that the environment is threatened. The ice in the Arctic is melting, and many people in the world do not have what we have, namely access to clean water. The fight to improve the environment on our globe cannot be won by Norway alone, it can only be won through international cooperation and by the fact that nations are united on common goals. Therefore, it is quite important that Norway sets a good example and takes the local environmental problems seriously. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party has chosen to prioritise just the environment. It is disappointing that the Government is failing the broad environmental policy consensus in some important areas. 2005 is the year of Outdoor Life. It is important to point it out, and unfortunately also a necessary reminder. I'm glad to say that the Workers' Party has suggested more to outdoors throughout this great period, simply because they think it's important to get more people out of the woods – and maybe up in the trees too, for what I know, at least it's important to facilitate opportunities for outdoors for many. The Labour Party also does so in its alternative budget, with a total of 60 million. kr more than the Government. The funds shall be used for something as important as the purchase of free space and for the operation and maintenance of free space. But it's also the way that municipalities need help. They need legal assistance in connection with conflicts just in the coastal zone, which the minister here was so concerned about. This scheme introduced the Stoltenberg Government and the Bondevik II Government removed it. In economically difficult times for municipalities, this support is needed from the big community. When people with a lot of money get along, come with their scrupulous and expensive lawyers, a poor municipality may not need a little, but a lot of extra help to care for the public's interests. It doesn't help in a way that an environmental ministry will take care of the beach zone and say it's a challenge, when you don't have money to do anything about it at the same time. Access by all-person rights to the beach zone is an important principle and a good one for more than those who can pay for privileges. That the government chooses to have a somewhat relaxed relationship with this is, for me at least, alarming. But it's perhaps a wild policy, which in turn leads to a widening of the differences in our society. The management of predators creates debate in Norway, especially in the countryside. There we live with the predatory problem every day. In the spring there was a broad majority here on the Stortinget who agreed on a new predator policy. An important prerequisite for this agreement was increased efforts to prevent and mitigate conflicts, including: by establishing a compensation scheme for the most vulnerable municipalities of the wild game, and by continuing the trial scheme with renting hunting grounds as compensation for lost hunting income. Then why does the government not follow this up with a single new crown? Didn't they make a serious deal? The appropriations are the same as before. There's no increased bet, and I feel it so that the government in a way doesn't take the villagers seriously when it comes to predatory game. The Labour Party proposed to spend 15 million in its alternative budget. to prevent conflicts related to the management of predators. That would be a good contribution to helping the most predatory communities. Polluter pays is an important principle of environmental policy. Nevertheless, in some contexts it is necessary that the State helps to clean up old environmental sins. This could be done, for example, by: be where it is impossible to identify the polluter. In several watercourses, the situation is serious. This will require increased effort to clean up. Some time back, we also received alarming messages about new contaminants in Mjösa. New findings of serious pollution cannot rest in the past; on the contrary, we must always be on guard against new pollution. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1139	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1142	Security of energy supply is high on the political agenda of the Government and the Right. This is natural from the critical factor energy is for any household, enterprise and society as such. In the wake of a few years ago, with very high electricity prices over a period of time, security of supply has become increasingly important. There is no concealment that the vulnerability of energy supply to precipitation failure has increased. This is because in recent years production and transmission capacity has increased significantly less than electricity consumption. Thus, the energy supply and demand market becomes more unbalanced. The government of the then oil and energy minister Einar Steensnæs carried out a thorough review of the situation, cause and effect, in St.meld. No 18 for 2003-2004, on security of supply for electricity, etc., presented in December 2003. In this big message, the Government announced a number of measures to improve security of supply, both in terms of new production entering the market, improvement of external transmission lines and measures to strengthen the overall position of consumers in this market. These actions have been further monitored through the budget currently under consideration and for which our good cooperation partner, the Progress Party, will ensure a majority. Measures in the 2005 budget include: increasing the use of gas as an energy source by the environment in Norway as well. We have large gas resources on the base, and it is a pleasure that Natural Power has announced that they want to use the concession to build a gas power plant on Kårstø. This establishment will make a significant contribution to the power balance. Further to the government’s main strategy in relation to gas power plants is to develop CO2 clean-up so that energy production based on fossil sources and environmental considerations can be better combined. This government has put together a majority behind its policy of allocating money to this type of research, and the effort is continued in this budget. From 1 January, the innovation centre in Grenland will be in operation, and we have great expectations for their contribution to bring more dynamism into the development of this type of environmentally friendly gas power technologies. Gas as an energy source is a bet area, and the right sees it as important that we use the potential for increased use of natural gas. Here, the Government will provide funding to make the gas available in several areas. It is gratifying that for the next year there will be an increase in this item. In addition, I refer to the reporting on environmentally friendly gas power technologies, etc. as the Government presented in the summer, and as the Storting is now dealing with. Furthermore, the Government’s commitment to new renewable energy needs to be mentioned, which is also fully behind the Right. Following the adjustment of the agreement with Enova, the target has now been adjusted from 10 TWh to 12 TWh for new environmentally friendly energy production and energy saving by 2010. The level of ambition is followed up by a corresponding increase in the appropriations for Enova. Although we need to develop sources of energy other than hydropower in order to reduce vulnerability to rainfall, it is nevertheless true that there is a potential for further hydropower generation not only through new projects but also by increasing efforts to modernise and upgrade existing hydropower plants. In addition, the government has an active policy to stimulate the increased construction of mini-, micro- and small-scale power plants, among others. by raising the scope of the concession obligation and thereby simplifying the procedure and strengthening the profitability of the projects. This type of enterprise is positive not only in relation to the energy balance but is at least equally important in order to ensure a living base in the districts. Within the scope of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, I would also like to underline the effort now being made in petroleum research, and take the opportunity to commend the Council of State Thorhild Widvey for creating room for an increase of more than 60 p.m. in the budget of the year. This is a forward-looking investment in getting more of the oil and gas resources out of the socket. This is a good contribution to empowerment, technology development and industrial development. This will help to strengthen the income potential of the socket and thus continue to generate high revenues for the country in the future. In addition, I would like to stress the importance of large areas being made available to the industry, including: in connection with the reopening of the Barents Sea for all-year petroleum activity, except in some areas. Finally, within the Ministry of the Environment budget, I would like to highlight the focus in two areas in particular. One concerns the ongoing cleaning up of pollutants. The release and use of environmentally harmful chemicals and metals is a serious threat to the environment, both for humans and for nature. I am therefore pleased that the Government has prioritised the work to combat these emissions highly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1168	I want to start by saying that the visions and thoughts that we have heard from the oil and energy minister here today are promising for Norway as an energy producing nation. The government is clearly concerned that there is a positive innovation in society, including in business, and shows through action that it wants to contribute to innovation and development and thereby provide the basis for our future well-being. That's why it's very nice for me to stand here today and bring forward one of the government's areas of activity in this budget, namely energy research. Here the effort is increased by 315 million. NOK 421 million. kr. If we look at petroleum research in isolation, the effort is increased by a total of 62 pst. In addition, the Government proposes 28 million. kr of the increased yield of the Research and Innovation Fund is earmarked for petroleum research. Overall, this represents an increase in the public investment in petroleum research of a total of 113 million. kr. This has also met with recognition from many teams. I want to quote Statoil's director of research and technology, Ingve Theodorsen: ‘New technology is essential to further develop Norwegian base and to meet the challenges facing the industry. The contribution of the Norwegian authorities to the best management of our petroleum resources has been taken in the right direction and shows that the government is able to implement its intentions.» I couldn't say better myself. In the course of the year, we have received a new Minister of Oil and Energy, who is not only filled with energy himself, but who has realized that it is in the energy sector, on which Norway is so dependent, that research and development must be focused, because, as she says, ‘the petroleum sector remains a major contributor to the financing of the welfare society and industrial development throughout the country’. This industry may have the world's best competence in its field. That's why we in this country dare to tackle projects like Snow White and Worm Lange. Both are the result of many years of technology and competence building in order to be able to operate advanced industrial activities at a depth of thousands of metres and several thousand metres into the rock in an environmentally sound and sound manner. The user-driven research carried out through OG21, but also PETROMAX and RENERGI, is important to contribute to the development and commercialisation of the world-leading level of competence established in the petroleum sector in Norway. But the challenges are getting bigger and bigger. The government wants to increase the rate of extraction from existing fields, but also to stimulate higher exploration activity. The objective should be to increase the extraction rate of the cap from the current average of 44 pst. to 50 pst. Here lies the huge socio-economic gains. Furthermore, the main gravity of oil and gas-related research is financed by the industry itself. It's still going to be like that. However, when public research and development efforts are increased, as in this budget, industry's efforts are doubled. In this way, the Government stimulates new technological uplifts that can help to realise an increasingly large part of the values on Norwegian pedestal. 50 million. the funds devoted to energy research are also this year related to the development of gas power plant cleaning technologies, or rather CO2 management, which is a more comprehensive concept. Both cleaning technologies, where exhaust gases are exploited for other industrial purposes, and the capture of CO2 and its recovery to e.g. pressure support in connection with the use of reservoirs is exciting solutions for the future. In both of these areas, progress is being made which can mean a great deal to domestic exploitation of the huge resource the gas represents for the nation. I think I have the whole committee with me when I say that we look forward to the development of the pilot projects that are now on the stairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1198	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1201	I want to start my article with a quote that has been joined by a lot of researchers: ‘We are the first generation to affect global climate and the last to escape its consequences.’ This quote can be found, among other things. at the Norwegian Bremuseum in Fjærland. I have with interest read the budget proposals from the Cooperation Government and hold them up against the quote taken from the Bremuse. I am pleased that both in the staging propositions and in the committee setting there are clear leads to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate the negative impacts of anthropogenic climate change. The co-operation agency is active in increasing the use of natural gas and increasing efforts in energy and petroleum research. Reducing CO2 emissions will be the biggest climate challenge we are facing. The use of fossil fuels produces as well as known CO2, and solutions must be in place to capture CO2 from large point emissions. It is important to stress that all actors share a shared responsibility. Reducing CO2 emissions will require considerable amounts and efforts, but we cannot escape this challenge, because the bill will be even greater if we postpone the management of CO2. Conversion to environmentally sound energy use and energy production will also be an important element in the fight against negative climate change. Enova has a central role to play in this work. The findings so far promise good for the future, and the Government has now agreed that Enova will be involved in environmental energy production and energy saving, corresponding to 12 TWh by the end of 2010. It's an increase of 2 TWh per. years in relation to previous agreements. Enova will receive 645 million in 2005. kr through a fixed charge in the network tariff, and this scheme will provide secure and predictable revenues to Enova. In the budget, the Co-operation Agency has presented a strategy to prevent the spread of high-risk environmental pollutants and ports at risk of spreading. Territorial plans shall be used for this work and knowledge shall be acquired through piloting, research, monitoring and the establishment of a national council. This shall be done in parallel with dispersal work for uncleaned land. Our generation is not allowed to consume and destroy the resource base so that we prevent sustainable development in view of future generations. The 2005 budget provides a basis for a target-conscious commitment to sustainable development and provides support to the individual to take management responsibility seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1236	I will not extend the debate any particular, but I would like to get answers to two questions we have asked. One question is to the Council of State, because he did not answer my question in the line. Does the Council know how much voluntary environmental protection organisations in total get over the state budget, not only from the Ministry of the Environment, but also the other departments? I would like the Council of State to come up and respond to it now. Is the answer yes, I would like to have an overview of it – not exactly in the hall here, but get it sent. Question 2 goes to the Labour Party. Yesterday, the Labour Party voted against the following proposals that we tabled: ‘The Government is asking for the Norwegian industry to have equivalent emission requirements for so-called greenhouse gas emissions to those in other countries within the EEA territory.’ Today, the Labour Party is taking part in a similar proposal from the Progress Party. Can the Labour Party explain to me why you are against one day and for the next day?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1250	Next talk is Brother Yngve Rahm – Brother Yngve Rahm!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1254	It happens from time to time that the conversations in the back of the rotunda may well be as interesting as what is being said here. I just want to take a little summary of a couple of main points that have been up. There has not been any temperature with regard to positions in the debate here today, although some have had positions, of course, but also positions other than what they have had before. I think maybe not least of the attitude the Workers' Party has taken to power contracts, where we have had a common understanding with the Workers' Party all the time that it was about transitional arrangements, and there are many years back, so we start talking about systems and arrangements that have been in place for a very long time. But now Rolf Terje Klungland has been faced with a challenge as rapporteur-in-chief for chapter 6 that was withdrawn from the budget, and now we're excited about what's coming out of it. But if we can find a solution for the industry that can also match ESA, and that can take into account the challenge, among other things. In Rana, I think it's a total big deal that'll be very happy about it. Then Sigvald Uppøen was Hansen up and sent a greeting home to Grenland. I note with some satisfaction that the Workers' Party has taken a decision on the infrastructure on gas, which is slightly different from what we had expected. The impression was created that only the Workers' Party got what they wanted, so we were supposed to fully finance what was of gas infrastructure around the country. Now the Workers' Party has come to the conclusion that if we are to get anything in place, especially in relation to pipes, it means a joint effort by the authorities on the one hand and some other actors on the other. In other words, the idea that the State should fully finance infrastructure measures in the form of pipelines has now also been abandoned by the Workers' Party. It is entirely in line with what was stated in the Gas Communication, and what the government parties have been doing in this debate all along. Then, I think, we have a basis for discussing the possibility of a future gas policy settlement in terms of infrastructure construction, because then we have the same reality. Otherwise, I would say that I am very happy that we are now going to the end of this matter. Today, the size has given two government councils the work tool they need to work in 2005. And I am also pleased to record that the Councils have received the tool that they have asked the Stortingen to get. In clear terms, the main emphasis of the Government’s policy and draft budget for 2005 has been fully endorsed by the Stortinget. There is a safe position for two state councils to start a new scope, and not least it is safe for the government parties in Stortinget to know that we have such solid back coverage for the main gravity in our economic arrangement for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1267	It is approaching Christmas, and I want to take advantage of the opportunity to send a little Christmas greeting, especially to the Advance Party. I would like to thank the Advancement Party for having now shown their true face. They have done so through the agreement they have made with the Government. I'm just going to spend some time explaining it. Right-wing policy is – as everyone who has joined this debate today has registered – to minimise the market’s governance. The progress party has reached a settlement on some small amounts that may be sufficient in themselves. However, the large amounts of money in relation to the effort that the Progress Party says they want on the energy market are completely absent. Last year, the Workers' Party made a deal where we were granted NOK 2 billion to an innovation company in Grenland, an active industrial policy. Now the government boasts that it's the ones who got it. But they wouldn't have come if it hadn't been for the agreement with the Workers' Party. At that time we expected that the Progress Party could at least get e.g. NOK 1 billion for infrastructure on gas. But they haven't cared about it, they've cared about symbolic things. And then they continue their policy here in the hall, which is just talking, without coming up with any suggestions. When it comes to Chapter 6 and Mo in Rana, there are two different things. We have to do something to ensure Norwegian energy supplies in the long term. If not, many communities will disappear in Norway. Mo in Rana is in a very special situation, where the agreement expires on 6 April. We've listened to people and checked what they've said in relation to the opportunities we have under the EEA Agreement, i.e. opportunities Norway has to help Mo in Rana in the situation they're in now, until there's a regime where Mo in the Rana industry can go in and get power contracts like everyone else, and so those possibilities are there. And finally, in relation to gas power plants: The working party has been entirely since the Bondevik I-government went off – that of course the Progress Party also knows – to build gas power plants. We mean the same thing today that we meant yesterday, and that we mean all the time. Now, the challenge of the Progress Party is the same as that expressed by the representative Ellingen up in Mo i Rana.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1280	I'm happy to have questions about the volunteer organizations, they're my business. And we need voluntary environmental protection organisations, which do a significant job. Their expertise, and the work they do, is a valuable part of a good and democratic society. That is why we also want to give priority to them, and we have done so through the budget we have presented. We have added, as I mentioned in my previous post, the basic support of the voluntary organizations by 15 p.m., i.e. one increase from a little over 26 million. NOK 30 million. NOK in basic aid amount. The beneficiaries of basic social benefits are voluntary organisations which have environmental protection as their core activity. So they're democratically structured, they're country-wide, and they're membership-based. In addition to that, we also have a project grant that we give, which is a social benefit on the other side of 23.7 million. kr. These are different organisations that work with environmental protection as part of the area they are busy for, and can apply for project support here. There may also be organisations that receive benefits, including: from other fields but with an exposure within the environmental protection area. When you are asked to give a collective statement about the voluntary organisations, I am corked with this material or think it exists. I am well aware of this from my time in the Ministry of Finance, as it was working with VAT compensation schemes for voluntary organisations. Fortunately, Norway has a myriad of voluntary organisations, not only within the environmental sector, but within – I would say – almost all other sectors that do a deep and important job and are an important part of the social structure that we have. Within the area of responsibility that I have, which is the environment, I would like to support these organisations. I want to make sure that they can be active, ask critical questions to the government and be partners, to the extent that they find it interesting. I believe in a society based on democratic traditions, and the volunteer organizations are part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1289	The representative of Klungland has now spoken seven times — partly in a line and partly in a post — as if he has solutions to power contracts for Mo in Rana and elsewhere. It's very exciting and very interesting, because the Labour Party has said in all the debates that have been held in the past that it's not that we can deliver power to below market prices. But it is important what the representative of Klungland was into, and which I fully agree with: we must gradually make sure that we have sufficient force, so that the industry gets power, but it becomes largely under market conditions. But it is also the case that the representative Klungland clearly has a different opinion. He knows what kind of contract the EEA can accept, and therefore we have now put this matter in his hands. He can now come back with an attitude on how to do this, and then we'll see if the EEA and the Government can accept that way. Now he has every opportunity to really come up with his good ideas and put them forward, instead of painting over and over again on something that he has so far been unable to document.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1296	The representative Rolf Terje Klungland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1299	As a former trade union leader, I might have started wage negotiations, assuming that Klungland's shoulders are being increased. But I want to thank you for your trust. I assume that that means that the Right will be positive to the proposals for regimes that the Workers' Party will come up with. There is no doubt that the most important thing is to get more power on the market. We fully agree on that, but it is in the long term. So the question is, what do the government parties do for Mo in Rana, Sauda, Odda and other communities, if you don't get it? So to infrastructure: I didn't know if I was going to take it as a manifest misunderstanding when Brother Yngve Rahm said that we had changed our vision, that we went in for the state to pay everything. The Workers' Party has never been in favour of this, so there must be an obvious misunderstanding on the part of Brother Yngve Rahm.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1308	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1311	I just want to thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that he does not have an overview of how much money voluntary environmental protection organisations get from the state. In other words, they can have a rather thick and long suction pipe right into the state treasury to finance their own crime. With regard to Rolf Terje Klungland's answer, there was no answer. And I understand that quite well, because what the Workers' Party says and does one day in this room, is not related to what they do the next day. I understand that the representative Klungland could not answer the question I asked him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1318	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1333	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1015]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1348	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1017]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1363	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1378	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1393	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1408	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1421	Then we go to voting on case No. 6-12 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1428	During the debate, 44 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Rolf Terje Klungland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, 2-4 and 44, by Rolf Terje Klungland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 5, by Rolf Terje Klungland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 6, by Øyvind Vaksdal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 7 and 8, by Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 9, by Rolf Terje Klungland on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 10, by Øyvind Vaksdal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 11-14, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, 15-32, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals Nos. 33-42 by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 43, from Inger S. Enger on behalf of the Centre Party We're going to vote for the minority proposals first, and we're going to start with the smallest fraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1480	Proposals Nos. 33-42, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1558	Proposals Nos. 15–32, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1679	Proposals Nos. 11–14, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1731	Proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the effect of a pledge arrangement for oil boilers and return to it in the 2006 budget.’;» The Socialist Left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1748	Proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party, to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1772	Proposal No. 6, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to re-examine legislation and practices with regard to the district share, in order to make this more accurate and fairer, so that flood prevention and post-flood remediation are fully covered by the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1787	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that gas power plants in Norway are subject to the same framework conditions as others in the EEA territory.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1802	Proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1836	Proposal No. 44, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to find transitional solutions for power supplies to the Rana industry within the scope of the EEA Agreement. This must be done before the expiry of current power agreements. The Government is asked to notify back in the revised budget of the transitional solutions adopted. The transitional solution must be notified in the EEA system.» Here the Progress Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1853	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Centre Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess legislation to ensure that high-voltage lines are either dug down or placed sufficiently away from where people have permanent residence. The regulatory framework must ensure that the precautionary principle is respected. The government must also consider the introduction of national legislation on building limits against high voltage lines. The government is asked to return with such an assessment in the revised budget in spring 2005. ‘... Here the President assumes that the Socialist Left now wants to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e1870	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e3038	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the vote, so the President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e4848	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the vote, so the President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e4872	The President expects the Socialist Left now to support the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e5885	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, and the Central Party, on behalf of the Odelstinget meeting on 8 December 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the quota system does not weaken the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e5904	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 December 2004: ‘The Government is asking the Government to refrain from introducing a national early quota area which is distorting competition for Norwegian industrial activities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e5922	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 December 2004: ‘The Government is asking for the Norwegian industry to have equivalent emission requirements for so-called greenhouse gas emissions to those in other countries within the EEA territory.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e5940	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 December 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the implementation of the EU ETS Directive and to submit a case to the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09-2.ana.ud673e5962	There is no record.
