ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4099	Ladies and gentlemen MPs good morning to all, and honored guests, at the sequel of the 2nd emergency session of the House of Representatives, which began on 14 June 2019. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The session's absence was justified by: Vice-President Denis Zvizdić, and representative Nada Mladina, and representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic announced the delay. I find that at this point in session there is, below, a session has a quorum to work with. I would like to remind you that the session has been suspended following a statement on the draft agenda in the first round of voting. The College of the House as the Committee in accordance with Article 86(1) of the Rules of Procedure carried out a subsequent agreement on the draft agenda. The agreement has not been reached, the debate is closed and we now need to make a statement on the draft agenda in the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote in the second round. Of the 28 present for 24, against 2 abstentions 2. I find that the 2nd session of the House, the 2nd emergency session of the House, has the next Agenda 1. The current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions, with an emphasis on the European Commission's recommendations; 2. Information from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the control and management of the inflow of mass number of migrants, refugees in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a view to the current security and humanitarian situation in the area of the UN-San canton since we adopted the agenda, we have representative jasmin Emrić, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4100	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I just wanted to react in a way that asked the Secretary of the House to explain by which member of the Rules of Procedure we pleaded on the agenda at all. So, why were we even making a statement about the whole agenda when we know that according to the Rules of Procedure we only plead on amendments and additions to the agenda, not on the whole agenda? Here, I'd like the secretary to interpret that, according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4101	You have now abused the business provisions, we have already pleaded. That's what you were supposed to discuss when the agenda was debated. I can give you the answer that it came from your debate, and also from the debate on the agenda, we had proposals from the MPs who asked for one item off the agenda, when we exhausted that agenda point, I asked the College if we would plead because the business provisions were not clear and in that case when they were not clear, when we had one point to withdraw, we gave the whole material for a statement. And I think that's what this House needs to say in a democratic way. We didn't have any problems, we didn't have to plead, we didn't say anything, it was a fact-finding attitude in the College, and there were two of us in that College. Moving to point one... Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4102	If I understand correctly, you and your colleague, Zvizdić, have agreed to vote on the agenda. When it comes to Rule 76(2), the Rules of Procedure say that the chairman has decided on the justification of the objection, but if I have now understood you well, you have had the support of colleagues Zvizdić to take the first time in the history of this House since this Rules of Procedure has been in force on the agenda, and not only on amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4103	I thank and realize that you have misused the business provisions and I ask you not to force us to come to an interpretation, I have no one to deal with today, except for the redundancies that are clear of business, to interpret if we want to hold this session. Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports, we're going to point one, Ad. 1. Current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions with emphasis on European Commission recommendations Proposers have submitted the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2018 to discuss this point. I'm opening a debate. Debate, MP Nermin Nikšić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4105	Honored chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, ministers, distinguished guests. When it comes to the current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions with an emphasis on obligations under the European Commission's recommendations, I will base myself a little on the state of justice. Davor Vuinović, Adis Šehović, Dženan Memić, Davor Dragičević, Slaviša Krunić, I am sure everyone knows the names of killed police officers, citizens, businessmen. A common 3 for all of them is that they were brutally murdered, liquidated, and the perpetrators had not yet been discovered. It is interesting that he could now list some 40 more names because according to official statistics, 40 cases of murder in Bosnia and Herzegovina have not been illuminated, it is not explained. I would like to make it perfectly open and clear that the reform of the judiciary is one of the reforms made under the auspices of representatives of the International Community who have forced and advocated such a reform. It was then imposed, not literally, they forced laws to be passed, but then a system like this was imposed and such a composition of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, whichever absurdity, with the mission of ensuring an independent, impartial and professional judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina that allows one approach to justice and equality of all citizens before the law. The very composition of the VSTV made up of judges, prosecutors and lawyers with representatives of the Council of Ministers and this House in a complex and complicated state such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, raise doubts about the possibility of corruption. If there were no confusion, both in much more developed democracies and in more developed countries, it would be hard to believe that judges and prosecutors will be objective in the procedures in which lawyers who have the power to name or change them or prevent them from progress. The honor of exceptions, but not to lie is very few of those who are willing to stick to professional standards, which is why they don't actually have a chance to move forward later on. There's a lot more of these others. He will give an example from the time I was prime minister, when we addressed the court for violations of relations in the government's national composition. We received a verdict in which the judge called upon the provisions of the Constitution that had been changed ten years ago. The ruling said that the national composition of the government was not violated because each minister has a deputy from the order of another constituent people. So the woman did not know that, in the meantime, the Federation of BiH established the consistency of all three peoples and what the composition of the national composition of the government was. When we published this at the press conference, then I received an application to influence the independent judiciary, and it's interesting that after three months, that judge got a promotion and went to the Federation Supreme Court. And it actually shows how and how the justice system works and the VSTV in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We in the SDP seven years ago have troubled the way in which the main prosecutors are elected at all levels and have asked that the prosecution should be accountable for its work to representatives of the citizens who are elected to Parliament. Let me remind you that this is the case in most countries in the world, here, only in our environment, in Croatia the Assembly appoints a chief prosecutor, in Serbia the Assembly appoints both the Prosecutor and the President of the Court, and with us the proposal is welcomed by huge criticisms and that, interestingly, is precisely from representatives of the International Community and representatives and from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. They even disputed the democratic capacity and awareness of MPs by fearing political influence. How funny it looks now from this perspective. Today it is quite clear why they challenged it, both of them. Perhaps the reasons are best seen from the open letter of the Vice-President, President of the VSTV and where it is possible to read and question whether the motive is indeed to retain the possibility of influence on the work of the judicial authorities. On the other hand, it is quite clear to the VSTV that it was clearly appropriate for such a solution in order to maintain the existing state that led us to this level where we are today. So it is clear to me that today's situation in the VSTV is a direct consequence of the situation in the BiH judicial system exactly the responsibility of those who do not want to admit their guilt or error in implementing the reform. If it is not the worst, this must be one of the worst reforms implemented in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, the VSTV has proved to be a estranged center of power over justice and justice. Today at the VSTV, we have people who were convicted of crime and hid the verdict from the VSTV, but when it was discovered, then people in the VSTV refused to sanction something like that. The bloating affair is just the tip of the iceberg, but I think a lot of worse things are happening inside the judicial system. We actually believe that 4 has a major political impact on the judiciary, that judicial institutions are contaminated, and that this is the biggest reason for the disastrously low confidence of citizens in institutions that should be guaranteed rights and justice in society, and clearly they are not. A series of public affairs can clearly identify political conflicts that break not only through the judiciary, but also through an intelligence-security state apparatus. The prerequisite for our country's progress is for the judiciary to finally become independent, and for intelligence police structures to start serving the state and citizens, not politicians, or their party and personal interests. We are ready to participate in a process that will eventually result in reform in the judicial system as soon as possible and so that this extremely important state tool for dealing with crime and corruption will finally become capacitated to deal with those who have been lurking in both eyes for years, pretending not to see what is done. A system in which judges are not responsible for their mistakes, in which prosecutors are not responding because they are falling, and they are even making progress, such a system is unsustainable and leading a competent state to fail. Due to the preparation of individuals from judicial institutions and politics, criminals feel untouchable, and everyone else can expect to be exposed to politically motivated procedures and the immeasurable damage done in this way. In the last few years, the most recent example has been the actions against certain political leaders, but I'm going to tell my friend's case here what I've been able to see that has frozen me. So the handling prosecutor filed a report to the main prosecutor's office, which found that for Mr. Damir Hadžić, there are no elements... of the crime, or that he did what was put on his burden. After three days, a man was detained, two months left in custody, a court case conducted, freed by all, and nothing, nor answered by the prosecutor, nor... I believe that such a system is totally inadmissible and that such political processes must be sanctioned when they happen, and it turns out that they are indeed politically motivated. So it is obvious that the complete system is mature for renovation, and I would therefore suggest that we return to a proposal whereby representatives of citizens, therefore, elected representatives at all, should be given the authority to elect the main prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina in all representative bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4106	I'd like to thank the representative. Debate, MP Adil Osmanović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4107	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, media. Since we have finally adopted the agenda for the 2nd emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the agenda points are indeed current and urgent to consider. The first item bears the name, which we are discussing, the current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions. We were at the Party of Democratic Action MPs' Club discussing both points of the agenda, and we were wondering if anyone had been called in front of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council? Is President Milan Tegeltija invited or, if he can't come, is Ružica Jukić or Jadranka Lokmić-Misiračač-Missiraci since there will be serious discussions, issues, so that we have full capacity to get answers to that? If they are invited, and they have not come, we are looking on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action's Club for a break to be provided, if the president can't come to at least some 5 of the vice presidents so that we can actually have a debate on this very important issue at full capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4108	Here, I'll comment right away. As for the SDA Club, you can ask for a break either for those or for some other reason, but I must tell you that none of the representatives of the institutions have called because, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have called an emergency session and the applicants of the material are in some way the signatories of those points of the agenda which have actually asked for this emergency session. If that is sometimes decided, in a way, it should have been discussed through the Annual Report because today I see it going in that direction, in which case all the representatives of the institutions should be invited according to our Rules of Procedure as we call them. So, here, are you staying at the break proposal to give or?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4109	I think you should take a break from an hour to get someone to come here. This is indeed the highest House of the Legislative State of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and if we cannot ensure that someone comes before the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, then a special question is raised really further. Therefore, I ask that a pause be given and someone be called in front of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to have a serious, reasoned debate with and answers to the questions that will surely be here. Maybe half an hour, maybe an hour, maybe 45 minutes, but to make a call that we know they'll respond or they won't respond.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4110	Here, I'm just asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure, even though I see here that, uh, certain representatives intervened. Here is article 83(3) – if the club of representatives requests a break for more than 30 minutes, the chairman of the House puts the motion to the vote, so I ask you to make a statement, since the chairman of the Club of the SDA has requested an hour's rest to invite certain representatives of political institutions to attend. Now please, here, before I make this motion to vote, Saša Magazinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4111	I'm giving up the injury, you've corrected it.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4112	Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4113	Just to clarify, perhaps, whether a colleague is asking for 45 minutes or an hour because we can do it without voting for half an hour, and if he already explains, perhaps I could explain why his colleague, Mr. Zvizdić, in the College, did not point out the question. The college can only invite guests to the session, none of us can propose. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4114	Here, I wouldn't comment, these are also business provisions. Here, the president of the club once again I ask – are you staying with the proposal to plead an hour's break?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4115	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4116	And half an hour. Then I'll give it a half-hour break at the SDA Club proposal. [[PAUZA]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, since we have a quorum, we can proceed with the work of the session. I call on the president of the Party of Democratic Action to explain the reasons for the request for a break. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4118	Thank you, Chairman. I wonder if you've called these, meaning the VSTV president or the vice president or the vice president, you or the secretary?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4119	Here, once again, let's remind you of the business provisions we've already made. So, the motions of this point and these sessions are actually a number of MPs who did not do so in their call, so here you are, for a reminder, not proposing this point so that, behold, I, as chairman, could neither, nor have the right, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when the session is regular and when we determine, the College, at the session of the extended College then, of course, according to all the points that are mandatory, which are held at the session of the agenda in the proposal, are called, to say, representatives of certain points in accordance with the responsibilities they have towards this Parliament. We don't have that situation today, so here's so much for an answer. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4120	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. I also drew attention last time to the fact that the name of the agenda point and the material offered is not in line and therefore I am not going to talk about the form today, and the form is exactly the Information on the work of the VSTV for 2018, because it is, in fact, from year to year, almost identical report, i.e. information on the work of VSTV. This is enough to talk about the insecureness of this institution which plays an extremely important role in the Bosnian-Herzegovina society. So I'm going to talk a little bit more about the essence of this point today, and these are the problems in bh. Justice, and as you know, VSTV is a regulator on all matters in bh. Justice. That's why when we talk about work, that's what VSTV doesn't do, and what we're entitled to as representatives of bh. Citizens, because they and we should be taking the bills of 7 right now, bh. However, in their pride and passion for the past few years, citizens have offered us information on the work here and as I recall we never received information on the work of VSTV. It wasn't enough for them, but, you know, a sense of injustice in bh. Society is a key reason for young people to leave, not only young people, but whole families from Bosnia and Herzegovina. We don't have institutional security, if we don't have security, or if we have legal uncertainty, who's responsible for it but VSTV as a regulator? Why is that? It seems to me that for years we have insisted that the VSTV deliver a financial report to this Parliament. They defended themselves by not providing them with funds through the budget, but by providing them with donations. Although donations, this Parliament, i.e. the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, must know where and who is funding them. And of course those who finance them have a special impact on their work. However, their pride goes on, they have since 2017, when those who were their biggest donors, when they warned that a strong political influence on the work of the VSTV, or in the judiciary in general, were not paying attention to such statements. So I'm going to do a retrospective of some of that information, reports, attitudes, etc. In 2017, the US ambassador warned at a meeting with the VSTV, members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, warning them that the judiciary is related to corruption and political influence, and even some members of the judicial system. At the very beginning of the VSTV talks, led by the president of the then and current Milan Tegletija, made it clear that she was very informed and directed into their engagement. In this sense, the US Embassy in Sarajevo said it was not satisfied with the work of the VSTV, that they doubt that some members have different goals than those for which they were elected, and that they generally do not understand the great responsibility they have. Furthermore, during 2019, certain worrying phenomena have been observed that have a negative impact on the implementation of reforms in the judiciary and are related to the areas of management, management of the VSTV, management of a transitional system in the area of the submission of property records, evaluation of work, and the process of appointment of judges and prosecutors. You remember that the entire public was being pressured by the VSTV and that finally the property records and judges and prosecutors were made public, as did our MPs in Parliament. However, it is obvious that it did not suit some. These phenomena are more serious and appear to be an attempt to delay or even question common reform efforts taken over the past period. For a long time, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has been mishandling the appointment process. Certain appointments were found to be favored and ended surprisingly quickly, and one of these examples was the appointment of the main district attorney in Doboj in March 2019. This was an emergency procedure, the materials were delivered less than two days before the VSTV meeting, although the Rules of Procedure require a long time for the members of the VSTV to be prepared. The favouring of certain appointments, the delaying of others, gives the impression that there are political or other reasons for the Council to be managed in its decision. Delays and ineffectiveness in the appointment procedures undermine the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On 17.05.2019, the European Union received a letter from Mrs. Aleksandra Martinović, the President of the Federation Constitutional Court, pointing to problems in the functioning of the Court due to an unreasonablely long process of filling the positions in the Court. As you know, the procedure for the appointment of Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Federation begins by running by the VSTV. They still don't want to do it today and they don't do it even though the Constitutional Court isn't filled. It also questioned the evaluation, work and submission of property records reformed by Council regulations of 2018 and in line with the European Union's recommendations. Why am I citing the US Embassy's position, the European Union? It is because unfortunately in Bosnia and Herzegovina there are some three truths although the truth is only one, 8 but because of independence, because of one correct attitude towards the VSTV, here, I want to make a retrospective of exactly the views of those who are both great donors and who, to whom they hold. It's obvious they haven't even held those opinions lately. It has been clear for some time that serious reforms need to be implemented in the judiciary. The latest developments in the VSTV are only one evidence in a series to support this claim. The European Union's opinion is very clear on this point, amendments and additions to the VSTV Act are necessary. The decisions of the VSTV disciplinary committees have defactoed the impunity of individual VSTV members. What is more, possibly the improper behaviour of the VSTV president has not even been examined, but has only been found to be without the disciplinary responsibility of the VSTV president. It's non-sensual. Why? There is no one who is not responsible or against whom procedures, proceedings are to be conducted disciplinaryly, judicially, etc. This is what I'm saying from personal experience, because I did spend my time in court benches, in investigations, etc. A few years, but that doesn't mean I was guilty, but just expecting an impartial, professional investigation, here I finally won the legal battle. The European Union's opinion on this is very clear, authorities are expected to take these recommendations very seriously. Imagine that the president of the VSTV is in an affair, under quotes, subjugation and that neither the disciplinary procedure nor the procedure of determining his or her potential responsibility, and the government of one of our close countries, Austria, has, within an hour, fallen precisely because of a similar situation, because the Deputy Prime Minister has found himself in a similar situation. So if we are pursuing democratic standards, if we are pursuing the European Union, if we are seeking a legal system that will guarantee the safety of all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the ordinary Bosnian Herzegovinaan citizen, then it was also expected for the president of the VSTV to offer resignation, i.e. that all the VSTV members offered resignation because they were co-responsible. Here, as we have seen and after not implementing disciplinary responsibility, the disciplinary procedure was expected that the VSTV as the regulator of the judiciary, the highest authority in the judicial system, should resign. In 2017, VSTV adopted controversial conclusions that could jeopardise the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the Prosecutor's Office, since, among other things, they provided for the possibility of changing judges and prosecutors on the basis of alleged earlier activities in the course of the war, without carrying out the procedure. No one can be removed, responsible, before an adequate procedure is conducted. It is obvious that there was influence here, political influence because the request to the VSTV to provide them with information on whether judges and prosecutors in the War, War Crimes Research Centre report and the search for missing persons in RS were under inappropriate pressure, specifically on this person, but in a broader context every judge and prosecutor in the country. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's why, I'll be done quickly, which is why I'm pointing out, here, and on the Special Report of the Special Advisor of the Queen of England, who delivered the State Report to the 79 pages in bh. Justice where it points and makes recommendations. Second of all, you have recommendations from the European Commission that obviously do not respect the VSTV, then you have objective analyses of the non-governmental sector of various university professors and international officials. So, if it weren't for Parliament to put pressure or influence on the judiciary, we expect the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council to at least show minimum respect for The state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I therefore propose two conclusions: - that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, in full composition, resign, and - that, according to an emergency procedure in the parliamentary procedure, the amendment and addition of the Law on VSTV. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4121	I'd like to thank the representative. Debate, representative of Saša Magazinović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4122	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. I express my satisfaction that despite the procedural obstacles, we have come to a situation today in the highest legislative body of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are talking about this extremely important topic. In 2012, an initiative emerged that, by example, countries from the environment, above all Serbia, Croatia, and Montenegro, the chief prosecutor is elected by the BiH Parliament, where he, by modeling our neighbours, needs to take account every year of the work or the unhappiness of the institution he represents. It was then assessed as an attack on the independence of the judiciary and by the International Community, but also parts of the media that treated our judiciary as a sacred cow. Something that is untouchable and not to be spoken of. There are numerous measures, the chairman You will well remember, MPs from all political parties from both entities and from all peoples who on rare occasions when we were able to discuss the work of the judiciary asked concrete questions about cases that were going on for an inaccessible period of time, about obvious irregularities for which cases and MP Nikšić, here, demonstrated. Each time, it has been characterized as a pressure on the judiciary and a political attempt to control the judiciary. It is clear to all of us that the VSTV has been a child of the International Community for many years, and that is why it has had a kind of protection and eagle of untouchableness. In the meantime, it has changed a little bit, probably a moment of indifference from the International Community to the domestic hoodlums, and today the VSTV is the child of domestic politicians who use it, not to say abuse, in the way they think it should be done. In the previous period, even the media we call independent did not feel comfortable reporting and doing these topics because they would also be brought into the context of political or not knowing what kind of pressure on the judiciary. Today, I can say that one big step has been made, at least when it comes to talking about this topic. Politicians speak much more freely than before about irregularities in the judiciary, the international community has also turned the board and started speaking in a different way, and the media has full freedom not only to report, but also to look at the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina in one analytical way. Why is that okay today, and it was wrong five, six and seven years ago, I don't know, but I welcome the change of approach of this issue to both the international community and politicians and the media, and I don't think that any topic can be removed from Parliament in this country and that no one, regardless of whose protection it enjoys, can be someone who is removed from the court and the public and the state parliament. Trust in the judiciary is at a historic minimum, so never greater mistrust in judicial institutions has ruled. Unlike those who say that people from the country are leaving because this party or that party has not entered or entered power, I think that, apart from the existential reasons, most of those who leave Bosnia and Herzegovina are doing it out of a sense of hopelessness, and above all legal uncertainty. Laws apply to citizens, but they don't apply to institutions and political powers. When someone goes through the red light, the camera shoots it, no one asks him if you respect the Traffic Safety Act or don't respect it, whether you accept it or don't accept it, followed by punishment, withdrawal of a driver's license. It's different with institutions. We have a current Council of Ministers meeting that does not comply with the laws and did not comply with the Council of Ministers' Law, and many examples are that the laws apply only to political powers. The situation in the judiciary is a zero condition for our path to the European Union. The rule of law is all that each of us hears at each meeting with any representative of the International Community, and in the last opinion a clear underline of the rule of law is drawn. Countries in transition, and we've been an inaccessible 10 long country in transition, end their transition path by cleaning up the political scene of people who are corrupt, talking about politicians, and cutting into crime. We're still waiting for our sanaders to end up where they belong. When that happens, we will say that one part of our transition, most of it, is finished and that we are ready to go towards the European Union. Until then, we're not moving from where we are. When our sanaders end up in prison, the mice that are currently around them will crawl into the holes they've come out of, and the state and our society will breathe. So what's happening today is not a fight against the institution, it's not a fight against individuals, it's a fight for the rule of law in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and a struggle for this country to breathe. This today, I mean holding a session and the debate we are having, is an extremely large step in this direction and I congratulate all those who have helped to discuss these two issues despite all the blockades, and above all on the subject of justice. Unlike the previous session where I had a discussion in my opinion with my colleague Mehmedović, I welcome his approach and the conclusions he suggested by demonstrating that he was not yet the goal of stopping the debate, and I hope that by the end of the debate, we will have a greater number of conclusions that we will be able to reach out to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4123	I thank Representative Magazinović. Representative Zlatan Begić, debate. Here you go, counsel, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4124	Thank you, Chairman. Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, not repeat myself about everything that my colleagues have already brought out and I will stick to this report, the material that we have received in addition and in preparation for this session. I've read this report carefully, and I have to tell you that he's at the level of student guides, so the first year of law school from which you can't conclude anything about the essential issues that don't surprise me. I am not surprised at the absence of people from the judicial institutions of this session because the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in the position of the British queen, whether, when it comes to control, it may be a huge matter of control, but of controlling what is the rule of law and working in judicial institutions. I will repeat once again that we are an equal branch of government from two other branches of government and that we are certainly entitled to the duty of taking care of what is the rule of law. Thus, there is nothing in this Report on how it is possible for one and the same person in court proceedings to be appointed to the position of bankruptcy director in seven, eight, fifteen, so I hear even seventeen businesses. I'd like to ask a judge who allows such a thing if he could be a judge, say, in 15 different courts, of which, of course, depends on the fate of the numbers of workers and their families? In this regard, it should be noted that the fees per firm are extremely high, it is a matter of acquittal fees. Furthermore, the institutions of justice, or courts, some courts, some judges, should not generalise things, there are also honest people who try to do their jobs, still enforce laws that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional. You know, we conducted the procedure before the Federation Constitutional Court concerning the Law on the bankruptcy procedure and some of its provisions and worse proved that these provisions were unconstitutional, then the courts, some courts in the TK area, found that some of the judgments of the Constitutional Court and constitutional courts were not a source of rights for them and that until the Law changed that they would apply the provisions that were found to be unconstitutional. When the 11th Law changed, they continued to apply non-constitutional provisions, although in the new law, i.e. amendments and amendments, it is explicitly stated that these provisions do not apply. You know, when a law is amended, usually in the transitional and final provisions, it is stated that all procedures that have been initiated under the old regulations will also be completed under the old regulations, but you cannot put it into amendments and additions to the laws resulting from the procedure before the Constitutional Court because this would mean that the legislator prolongs the unconstitution. And today we have a case to apply the provisions that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional and which have ceased to apply, but here, not in the case of courts, some courts. There is also a difference in the perception of decisions by constitutional courts in this country. You know, while, when it comes to bankruptcy, some courts don't want to accept constitutional court practice before the law changes. For example, when it comes to the compensation of immaterial damage to the victims of genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity, say families of victims of crime at the gate, they are then called to the Constitutional Court's verdict by making it impossible for victims to reach their compensation in court proceedings, which is totally scandalous and unacceptable from the point of view of the rule of law. I'm not going to go into the details, but it's so pointless when you get into those objects that it's amazing. So there is a case-to-case treatment and always over the back of those who are the most sensitive categories, victims of war crimes, crimes against humanity, workers, etc. Further, executive and judicial judgments shall not be carried out when it comes to labour claims. When workers go to the authorities and ask why executives and judicial judgments are not carried out, why do not procedures be initiated to settle their work claims, then the presidents of the courts, you may think, orally, say that the court in the proceedings has made a mistake. When I advise them to turn around in writing and ask for that kind of reasoning, of course, there's no written response. Therefore, individual court presidents in this country take the right to appreciate the judicial verdicts they have made in the proceedings, and during that time the assets of a debtor are extracted, it is sold, is it, by direct implication, the inability to settle labour claims. Next, you know I often get people coming to me and asking me, I apologize in advance at this part of my discussion, – are you Dr. Begić? I say yes, I am. He says, "I'm here to see if I'm normal." I say -- you know, I'm not that kind of doctor, I'm a doctor of constitutional law. He says, "E, I need you." It can happen, that I don't get into your details, that the court does everything, and even that it finds out that something that's not the opposite of the Constitution, doesn't have to mean that it's the opposite of morality just to impose, the lawyers will understand this, the deadlines obsolete, and since the persons in question have missed those deadlines, they can't get their wages earned in court proceedings. So, in order not to be nothing, but to be destructive and, therefore, you have the feeling that the judge laid down his bellies, which he once said to fellow Mektić, and to think about how to trick that worker, not just one but 84 more, I think is the correct number, from that firm. And then that woman, the single mother who lives in the garage, who hasn't received a salary for seven, eight years, still commits to paying 7,000-8,000 marks of court costs. That lady shaking, is, in one very bad state, psychophysically not at all triggering a second-degree procedure out of fear that she's not going away with the only thing she has for court expenses, and that's the garrisoner she lives in as a single mother with her daughter. Furthermore, there is nothing in this report about defenses under official duty. You see, defenses under official duty have been initiated to ensure justice of the trial, so that the legally ignorant party gets adequate legal assistance, we all know that here. What's going on? It happens that often Bosnia and Herzegovina is a kind of polygon where the International Community is investigating some new models of action in this case, here, within the judiciary where the suspect has the right to choose his defender, and then, in that right, he is suggested 12 even in the phase of the interrogation that the lawyer is to take. And then just as the bankruptcy directors are named at the 10-15 firm, so some lawyers are named for 50-60 criminal proceedings to protect their clients, then abuse the settlement institute and actually what was intended as a protection mechanism for the suspect's rights has turned into something called denying the right to a fair trial. For what? Well, that's because the state pays the best. You know, defenses under official duty are paid out of the budget. Constitutional judiciary, I won't comment here, then it's special, is it, the fourth branch of the government, to put it that way, but I would warn of a completely inappropriate self-restraint of the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court of BiH, I hope there will be an opportunity to discuss it in more detail, and I would like to join most of the proposals that have been heard here today. with me thinking that the profession must continue to choose, the profession must be chosen by both judges and prosecutors, but representative bodies when representatives of the national sovereignty must have the possibility to replace those holders of judicial functions that do not do their job properly. [[the speaker is warned on time]] After all, our Rules of Procedure also provide the possibility to form a special investigative committee and even hold a public hearing for anyone, including the holders of judicial functions which would was, was, in front of the public with the presence of cameras, public services, so that the citizens of this country could, and where among other things, be able to ask these questions that I said today, which are not even.../the speaker is warned in time/... the words in the Report that have been delivered to us. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Also, please, I would briefly warn of systemic problems in the norm of judges and prosecutors. The system is set that these people are not dealing with large issues and complex objects, but are looking to meet the monthly standard on certain small objects, because there is no big difference when it comes to norming about complex procedures, and procedures that are, which are quite simple procedures. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'm sorry, the one I made up for a little bit. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4125	Before I give my word to the MP for correcting the wrong allegation, I would ask all MPs and MPs to abide by the times that have been laid down in business during the debate, and, of course, the Rules of Procedure in any other situation. Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4126	Thank you, very briefly. Kola Begić had a broad and comprehensive debate which I essentially support, I just want to explain this part of the election. So what we talked about here in Parliament and what was and the proposal certainly included that the profession chose, or the profession prepared for Parliament candidates, even in the proposal was to be VSTV, and that Parliament, within two, three candidates who equally satisfy the conditions, had the right to make a decision in two-thirds, the tropetin majority in the way you said so, as the practice of countries in the region. This did not mean at all, neither then nor today, that it should be a political choice, but this question is exactly what you say, representing citizens and responsibility to citizens who have chosen people in Parliament as they have already chosen. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4127	Thank you very much. We're going back to the debate. Honorable representative Alma Čolo. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4128	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all MPs and all present in this room. In preparation for today's session, I had this VSTV report prepared on 110 pages and that it was about bettrists would take a long time to read. I have read it carefully, I have certain remarks and I am very sorry that there is no VSTV president or any of the VSTV members I would like to ask certain questions, but I think this voice will reach the public and that something I want to say will have the opportunity to hear people in both the judiciary and the VSTV who appoints legal holders. This Report under the Law on VSTV they are obliged to form by 1 May and deliver at one of the next sessions, but I would like to say that in these 110 pages there are most things about the education of judges and prosecutors, about digitising, calculating the costs of the court procedure, about increasing the number of non-judicial staff, about the independence of the budget because the judiciary wants its budget. They do not have enough funding from the BiH budget for judges and prosecutors with salaries of around 5,000 marks, they do not have enough donor funding, which from 2004 to 2018, according to the report, amounted to around 100 million marks, but should have their own budgets to allegedly be independent and independent in their work. I think the judiciary is now far from independence and far from impartiality. In the legal theory, the impartiality of every prosecutor and judge is assumed, so whoever has reason to suspect that the judge is not, that he is biased, has the right to seek his exemption, but when it comes to judicial independence, then there are certain criteria that judges and prosecutors are independent of the legislative and executive authority. Here we have released them and they are independent and they have their own regulatory body that appoints them and that values their labor effects. And I'm going to say about these criteria for estimating their performances, because this report shows that their effects in the work are ideal, that they work great and that the judiciary is impeccable, that the percentage of the judgments of the maltene are at an envious level, that these percentages range from about 98% to 100% when it comes to certain prosecutorial decisions. As I said, that the judiciary would be independent must be separated from the legislative and executive authority, which, behold, was done by the Law on VSTV. Its independent financing must be ensured, they have certain funding under the BiH budget for their funding, which is not small and in the budgets of other organisational units in this country and must be free of pressure. In his opening address, the VSTV president says politicians stop pressing VSTV- I would like him to say which politicians are pressuring him, and under pressure in terms of independence, a complete deviation from meeting the parties in the process is also needed. The prosecutor and the judge and the VSTV member shall not have any meetings with the parties in the proceedings. They are damaged, those who have a certain legal interest that this process ends in one way or another, in their favor or not. We have no doubt evidence that some of the VSTV members have meetings with those involved in the process, which has led to serious doubts about the independence of the judiciary. It's that foreign independence of the judiciary, what is the internal independence of the judiciary? So this is the expertise of the judges and prosecutors themselves, whether they are professional enough to perform that position, whether they are morally unwavering in their position and whether they are aware of the importance of the function they perform. I think that, that all of these criteria in our society are well-wrought, we are not sure that the judges and prosecutors are professional enough, we are not sure that they are morally unwavering and we are not certain that they are freed from the influence of the parties in the process. 14 I would refer to a few things from this report, I said, about these criteria. They have made criteria worthy of the efficiency of judicial and prosecutorial decisions. I've been a prosecutor for ten years, so I would, uh, look back at the prosecution's work when it comes to non-execution orders. It says here in the report that these riots in 98%, or 100% of cases, were brought completely correct, so the prosecutor took the order not to carry out the investigation and that the order remained in the final. The question is, can anyone complain about his order that he decided not to conduct the investigation? So no one can complain, you in this system have no damage as a prosecutor. I've been killed by someone in the family, the prosecutor says -- there's not enough evidence, there's not enough reasonable doubt that I'm processing the perpetrator of this murder, can I, as the injured, take measures of prosecution? In the past, you could have taken over criminal prosecution, so you, as a damaged person, are representing the indictment and insist that the perpetrator of a criminal offence be prosecuted on the basis of legally carried out evidence. It's an international community reform, they've thrown out the damaged prosecutor's office, they've abolished 80 prosecutors in this country. Before the reform conducted by the High Representative in 2002, when he passed the Prosecutor's Law, we had 98 prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Do you know how many we have now? 18. And here in one paragraph it says that the VSTV must find measures to somehow reduce those trips of prosecutors. So how are you going to reduce the journey of a prosecutor who travels for example from the District Attorney's Office in Zenica, Maglaj, because there's been a murder there, there's been a car accident, he has to travel to make an insight into Maglai, or in the Zavidovici... So, the vast territory the prosecutors are traveling to, they're running an investigation. We gave them in 2003 to lead the investigation, abolished the investigative judge, all of it was done by the International Community, and abolished 80 prosecutors. Never has the rationalization of the prosecution system been so radical and so dangerous. And now we're wondering why, and there's no answer in this report. In this VSTV report, there are no answers to those questions, but they say, I'm just going to tell you how many prosecutors make charges during the month, just two indictments. This is evident from their report as they say – in 2018 there were 12,201 indictments, we have a total of 377 prosecutors at all levels. That's 32 charges a year. Divide into 12 months that's 2.6 indictments a month one prosecutor does, of which 218 for corruption. So our 377 prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina are unable to make one corruption indictment annually. This results in the full ineffectiveness of the prosecutor's system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The VSTV does not offer any answers, they are asking for their budgets to be independent and to increase extrajudicial staff and will solve the problem that exists in the judiciary. I think this High Court and Prosecutor's Council is everything, and it's not independent, it's all, and it's not impartial, it's rocking its reputation with its own actions and I'm joining the conclusions, a proposal for the conclusions he suggested colleague Mehmedović. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4129	Thank you, Your Honor. Representative Branislav Borenović. Here, you have the word, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4130	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentarians. I think it is very important that today we have the opportunity to say a few words about a subject that really dominates the public throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and, behold, it may not be typical but I commend the discussion of the distinguished colleague Čolo who has hit everything that may be the burning 15 problems of the judicial system in which we live today. Where's the justice system today? The answer is simple, a complete failure has been experienced by the reform of the judicial system in this country, and today we are the hostages of a very bad decision involving individuals from the International Community in which a dangerous conglomerate was created, an octopus that is completely alienated from the people, from its institutions and is able to do whatever it wants. The three key words that should describe the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina are unhappiness, inaction and inadmissibility. I have a feeling that although there are decent and high-quality people there that most of them do not want to do their job responsibly and honestly, they do not want to be resented by certain individuals and that key people in the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina bear the greatest responsibility. I've witnessed these events, fortunately I haven't had the opportunity to, except for several times through some civil litigation, to be a witness, but I've had the opportunity to as someone who came from a political party who was involved in filing criminal charges on corruption and crime, to see what is the situation in the judicial system and the Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and someone as a member of the Committee of Auditors who, in the middle of last year, was concerned with the question and the fact that a young boy was killed in Banja Luka, David Dragičević, and his death, that is murder. As vice-president of the party back in 2013, at the invitation of the ruling parties that, then as an opposition party, if we have certain knowledge that we are filing criminal charges for various abuses, you know that we have launched a well-known story about 150 affairs of which one part of these affairs has been translated through serious criminal charges and referred to the Republika Srpska Prosecutor's Office for Treatment. And what happened in 99% of cases, orders are being taken to not conduct an investigation, i.e. suspending investigative actions as the easiest instrument to get attention off sensitive issues and avoid some serious story about fighting corruption and crime. We were then pointing to numerous deviations, wrong decisions that cost citizens of Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina tens of millions of KM, various affairs related to the privatisation process, for cases where it is evident that if anything else, the prosecution should at least conduct an investigation and reach a certain epilogue and say whether we are right or not. Secondly, my second participation in the justice system of Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina was last year as someone who participated in the work of the Committee of Auditors which dealt with the investigation of facts relating to the murder of a young man, David Dragičević, who was born and raised in Banja Luka, and then I saw all the senselessness, unscrupulousness of a judicial system in which you are absolutely right, everything depends solely on the prosecution will. You have no other option to prosecute and seek your rights, even for your loved ones and for those most difficult cases if there is no prosecution will. It was abolished many, many years ago, and you have this step that you need to cross if you want to get to trial and to seek justice, truth for yourself, for your family, for your society, and it has to change because what has been happening in the last few years, numerous unexplored murders, numerous corrupt acts, criminal activities, show that something serious must, indeed, be seriously changed in this system that causes us all enormous damage regardless of what part of Bosnia and Herzegovina they came from, regardless of what people they came from. This is simply one cancer of the early society in which we live and everything must be done to change it. That's when I first felt some kind of fear of what might happen in the next period when you have a situation to see that a key institution that needs to protect the truth and justice doesn't do its job, because we don't have time, there's a lot of evidence that we've come to, why the D.A.'s office hasn't even given a hundred days of any order on investigative actions, and you know that in a hundred days, every criminal act can be covered up, and especially the most difficult one, as far as murder is concerned. Not to mention a number of failures that can't even be answered by prosecutors and judges. They cannot respond by official duty to the failures they have committed, which may be specific, whether or not the case will be investigated by the end. 16 I have the feeling that in this reform of the judiciary the greatest focus was, someone was saying, on war crimes, and that there were certain events where the key goal was to make the most effective process of the war crimes, and there we must be aware that there were certain injustices, that there was a situation where some people were simply because they were accused by and those who committed war crimes in all the nations were guilty of something they didn't do, and there was no possibility of reviewing the proceedings. I witnessed cases of the Janković family and the Dević family who, on the basis of reports or the testimony of one or two who were really responsible for war crimes, received 20 years of imprisonment neither guilty nor due, only because it was then the focus of the interest of judicial reform and we must also talk about it. And what's evident is that the least we could do about the serious fight against corruption and crime is that it was in a tangle, and that's why we're here today. I think it is very important that the heads of Parliament's clubs, regardless of what political parties they come from, sit down and come up with some concrete conclusions that would help and come to the situation that we as Parliament should send a strong message of what it is to do to resolve the issue in the Bosnia and Herzegovina justice system. I agree that it is necessary to urgently approach the amendments to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, whose provisions are unclear and inaccurate and subject to arbitrary application, in particular as regards the determination of the responsibilities of candidates' responsibilities, etc. It is a big job that should involve everyone without any prejudice, both from the professional public, from the international public and from the political and any other public. And we need to inform the public about everything so that this job and this process is transparent. It is necessary to consider the idea that was also present in this Parliament, to separate the councils, especially advice for judges and advice for prosecutors, because prosecutors are only a party in the process, it is clear to everyone and it has already been said many times. I think we should consider whether lawyers have room for such advice, for such councils, because they have their own, their own associations and have their own chambers that need to worry about the interests of lawyers who are very important in the judicial system. It is necessary to amend, access the amendments to the law on criminal proceedings at all levels in order to establish judicial control in the conduct of an investigation by prosecutors. I think it has been done similarly in Serbia and Croatia because prosecutors have huge powers, and these responsibilities are almost non-existent or non-existent. Cases have been known both Memić and Dragičević in which the prosecution does not conduct effective investigations and thus even seek to cover up a serious investigation into these murders. It is also necessary to improve the situation of damaged victims in criminal proceedings, and I fully agree that there must be a way to allow the damaged party to continue criminal prosecution in the trial to be a party that does not depend solely on the prosecution's will and decision one or two prosecutors. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Only two more sentences and I end up, and I think it is important that we come out of this session today with certain conclusions that will be strong enough, serious enough to point out one need for very, very brave changes in the justice system and the work of judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4131	Thank you, counsel. Representative Zukan Helez, hearing. Here you go, counsel. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4132	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, media representatives, representatives of international organisations. Well, here, I'm glad that this item of the agenda saw the light of day even though not so easy and I didn't, right at first say, that strangers are imposing solutions on us and I don't believe anyone in this room likes to see his society corrupt, but here the foreigners force it on us so we can join the European Union. I think that, at least I, as far as I'm concerned, whatever access to the European Union, I care about this country being with as little corruption as possible, to be more developed and, of course, with as much morality as possible. Unlike fellow Mehmedović, who experienced another way, this, was processed, he was released, he proved, I had one experience as a minister for the issues of the Federation government and I want to share it with you representatives and with the general public in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, a typical example of when you run into the high-profile prosecutors, prosecutors who are in the chain of crime and corruption and who simply won't tell the facts, the arguments, they won't process, uh, I came to the then president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, it seems to me that Novković called himself, even though he didn't seem to have the will, he couldn't influence the processing of people. What's this about? So when I arrived there at the head of the ministry for about half a year, I learned that people at the Ministry, Assistant Minister Martin Frančešević and Dragan Majstorović, a lower official, were issuing beliefs about military belongings, that they were betraying there the act of conviction that they could certainly not do so, and by order of one party. And we filed it at the Federal MuP, the Federal MuP did the art, and they said it was a fake. And that lasted, the prosecutor, prosecutor Nives Kanevčev, kept it in the drawer, didn't want to pass on to the judge for the previous trial, to process it. I had a conversation and said it wasn't the prosecution's pressure, but I don't know why it's waiting. And then they told me that someone was calling, and they told me who that judge was, from the VSTV, when it got close, the pressure, to take it to the judge for the previous trial, that judge changes it to another position. And afterwards, I am a representative of the Federation Parliament, asking questions to a new prosecutor named Dalida Burzić, and she said there are no elements to process it, she answered me. Then comes Minister Salko Bukvarević, who returns those people who faked their jobs and then to the Federal Ministry of Interior, on the orders of one prosecutor, comes a warrant to arrest one of these people. When one of these people gets arrested, it's fortunate that the judge, one in East Sarajevo, who I don't want to mention her name to, because in every country, she should be rewarded, and I'm afraid, given the state of our society, not to be punished, and I want to congratulate her on this occasion, but I don't want to say her name. She processed it, and when I did the interview, I was making a statement, uh, I was thrilled how much she got into it. She knew even better than I did how much a crime it was. And she said these words -- my mom trained me with 300 marks, and this man made huge sums, millions of money, and I want to process it. It's true, she's young, if it's gonna stay that way, I hope she will. And that's why I want to say that they're not all the same, that there are honest, honest people out there, and these people should be given support at any moment. And look now, and this Dalida Burzić, after all, and Minister Bukvarević, no one will answer what they have done, too, crimes in that chain. We in this country must make changes to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. I will only make comparisons with the Republic of Croatia. Prime Minister Sanader was arrested, processed, once chief businessman Kutle, is on the run today, hiding in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know what happened to the richest man in Croatia, Todorić? In Serbia, for a time, the mafia threatened to take over the state completely, they made one big moveSablja so how much did they stop it? I am growing 18 persuasion that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we cannot get out of this because we are completely, completely corrupt. Corrupt voters, one way or another, get a donation, get a grant, get his kid into college, and then pick corrupt politicians. Politicians, look, check out where the kids work from prosecutors and judges. These are all attractive state-owned companies, and there ends a chain of corruption that is untouchable, and it seems to me with this majority that this will not work, the amendment of this law. One party's colleagues had good discussions, but no one mentioned a panda weighing more than a billion marks, where the party's bosses, unfortunately one of them was also rickety, were involved in the whole affair because they called and ordered it to be done, both the other and the third party heads. Today, Čaušević is being tried for abuse of position and authority for some few hundred thousand marks, and an entire affair where key politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina are involved amounts to over a billion. So it couldn't have done it without political influence on the judiciary. To change all this, they have three ways, I'm for this first one, and I think it's best if we want our country to move towards the European Union as soon as possible, to bring into the law that the president of the VSTV, the chief prosecutor and the president of the BiH Court are foreigners, but not to be from Belarus and Bulgaria, although such countries, whatever they have a higher degree of democracy than Bosnia and Herzegovina, but to be from these countries that have many years of democracy, that is Germany, the Scandinavian state, etc. I mean, if we did that so there wouldn't be political powers, that it wouldn't take more than ten years, just to show us how it's done. Another way is to choose in Parliament, to have 2/3 of both the positions and the opposition vote for the chief prosecutor and the third way, similar to in the United States, that judges and prosecutors go on the list, to choose as we do in this Parliament. Without that, if this closed circle remains, we'll never get to the green branch, under the credentials, we won't come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4133	Thank you. Representative Enver Bijedić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4134	Thank you. I welcome the chairman and all my colleagues. Of course, the correction of the wrong quote applies to my colleague Zukan just to extend this discussion, so I hope you'll give me a chance to address it. I also want to highlight one of the negative examples from the field of justice at a time when we worked in the Federation Government. That's when I, as a minister, had calls from the chief prosecutor to explain some processes in the area of highways in construction, tenders and other examples. I note that the tenders held by the highway were entirely beyond the responsibility, knowledge and consent of the ministry. Also known is the case of the Sarajevo bypass where the thickness of the asphalt was mentioned. An object that's been done for years and eventually came from the D.A.'s office, I got a document saying there's no evidence, of course, because the minister, he doesn't decide anything about it. But here I am speaking in the following sense, in these calls, in the hearings, in the State Prosecutor's Office, I was then asked as Federal Minister of Transport and Communications to charge, to say that there are such irregularities if there are, to accuse then SDP President Zlatko Lagumdžija, to crawl away Prime Minister Nermin Nikšić and State Minister Damir Hadžić. So, all this calling, all this harassment, media exposure, muddying was in the sense that you'd be burdened by the SDP's leaders at the time. I repeat, after the completion of all these investigative actions that are I've been led to a document. [[the speaker is warned at 19 times]] There's no responsibility, no evidence, and it hasn't been published anywhere. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And the media, of course, took advantage of it, it was convenient at that moment for the ruling party, because they were then a winning party But the D.A.'s report denying responsibility and proof of corruption and any guilt has not been released anywhere. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Of course they're just, I'm saying in favour of my predecessor's discussion, so I'm sorry I left the topic a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4135	I thank you and, behold, I must say that you have misused the business order because you had to refer. If you have something to say in a different way or to supplement, of course, please contact the Rules of Procedure. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4136	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you first. So I must say that I am very reluctant and with one great respect I am talking about here today, especially after colleagues who have spoken before, whom I have seen to be respected constitutional experts or have been in the judiciary, or in some other way have had close contact with the judiciary, like these colleagues, even though I know their other close contacts with the judiciary that are not instructed here, but I will not talk about names and individual cases here. I'm no closer to the judiciary than I am to the opposite side. As often as I boast that I have never been in my life, and among the elderly here, I have not been in court in any capacity, possibly in the garter several times, even though they tell me I shouldn't brag about it, it's not some policy reference. But here, however, I am obliged here to say a few words in the context of the proposal that this club of ours made at the last session, and behind which I stand today, suggest that this agenda point today, here and in this way, we do not process and debate because it is not good for us, however, it will be counterproductive. I will try to explain this in a few words, first of all, to quote a few sentences from the introduction of this material of the Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council – the results I mentioned did not achieve in isolation, we have achieved them together with judges and prosecutors, partners in the domestic government and the international community and together with them with equal commitment and seriousness of the VSTV wants to continue to resolve issues, etc. When it comes to legislative and executive authorities, the Council is open to co-operation on all important issues in the area of judicial reform. We owe a good part of our success to a number of international friends who have generously supported us as well as in previous years. I must say that these sentences stand, of course a good part of us here -- the results and this -- would put the successes in quotes, but for these results and successes were in quotes or without quotes, the responsible or the culprits were well located, and the Council, but I am warning the international community in the first place, because justice reform was done through donations, as it is said here, and under the direct patronage of the International Community and such VSTV, whatever we think of it, was created under the direct influence of the International Community. Why am I saying that today might not be a good time to talk about this topic here, that we had to choose a happier time to discuss it? So first I'm gonna ask, here we are, when the judiciary broke down? When did the VSTV break down? I have here a list of the results of the vote on the VSTV report for the last five, six years, but here I will hold the 2013 mandate here when I was here. I must say, the only 20 parties from the Federation were representatives all the time, whether MPs from Republika Srpska were consistent against the report, both parts of Republika Srpska, and those who were power and opposition, etc. The Federation is only consistent against this VSTV report by the Croatian Democratic Community Club. I will remind you, more or less consistent throughout all those years, the SDA, SDP, SBB, in part and the DF has always supported the High Court and Prosecutorial Council report and today we are here to discuss how this VSTV is wrong. We of HDZ have been arguing for years and this is the result of this vote, and when we say there is nothing personal there, we don't think of people sitting on the VSTV, they can be like this or like that, we mean the structure of the judiciary viewed through the VSTV, in the way of elections, in the way of re-election, in the jurisdiction and authority of the mandate, etc. And that's really the problem. But if we are going to talk in good faith about this issue and with a desire to fix something, we should have here, as Parliamentarians, as legislators, what we do not have, relevant materials and relevant partners. And no, they are not members of the VSTV for me relevant constituencies in the legislative body. We have their reports in regular procedure, we adopt each year like this, with the support of many of you who have initiated this topic here today. In my opinion, the relevant talker on this topic is the Council of Ministers as a legislator of legislative solutions, but the Council of Ministers in full capacity and in full legitimacy. The relevant materials are, not VSTV's report full of statistical data, digitization, figures that we can... they are probably more or less accurate, except for those observations or conclusions of this nature about successes. For me, relevant materials are the conclusions, materials, proposals for legislation created in those numerous sessions concerning structural reform of the justice systems that are taking place. One took place the last time we wanted to sit here on this subject and what would be the basis for really changing the Law on Justice. Why isn't it good that we are here today, in this atmosphere, to discuss this subject? So this point was created as a proposal based on an affair, I would call it, a very speculative affair, with very vague facts, with very questionable facts, with an affair which, behold, is a proposal from the judicial authorities. About her, they, uh, run the process and procedure. We, like, and just before colleagues, in some other cases here, and we judge, and we sue and judge and judge on this subject. Is that good and whether this is the right basis for talking about a serious structural reform of the judiciary judge for yourself. I hold that it is not, I hold that this is a topic that should be discussed on the basis of relevant materials with relevant partners when talking about us legislators, as legislators, and that it will then give effect. I'm going to do it again again, and today, by discussing this subject, we've contaminated the second item of the agenda that we're going to know when we're going to start discussing, and about it we have something to talk about, and I'd even say, in most parts, we have a common opinion or a good part of the consensus. And that's why this was our proposal, which is why I think it's good, to discuss this issue when we have full capacity, legitimacy and the Council of Ministers, when we don't have colleagues who are in a double role in this House and when we can discuss the materials that are the basis for a possible reform of the judiciary. Here, we're not going to reach any conclusions, it's going to be cosmetic conclusions exactly for the use that this session is about, in order to make this imaginary public, the public, having a lot of fun, and we're going to say that we finally did something good, and are we, very questionable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4137	Thank you, counsel. Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4138	Kožul, a colleague, is absolutely right about what he said about who, how, and how, in the earlier period, he declared himself on the VSTV reports. So that's the factography and what the man said, that's what it is. HDZ and SNSD were generally against, others for. Why was that? Because it has been created for years of atmosphere to vote in favour of and against the existence of these institutions, for and against the state, in the event of a statement on the reports of judicial institutions. As such a picture is created on a number of other issues when it wants to hide the essence, so are those who voted against the Report, I am not sure that they voted against it because of its essence and dissatisfaction with the work of the judiciary. It is good, and I welcome the discussion of my colleague, Kožul, that today, and this question is clear and that, through this session, there are preconditions for future support, regardless of whose report we declare the essence of the work, and not about the plantings and spins, that he, for example, who from Republika Srpska, is a traitor to someone or something, as well as the one from the Federation who will vote against. I think this, too, colleague Kožul, which you have now been saying, is a significant contribution and the result of this debate, to finally clarify with these myths that someone's report must be adopted because it comes from some institution, and that all those who will vote against have been convicted in advance as opponents of the state because they are dissatisfied with the institution's work. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4139	Thank you. Representative Zlatan Begić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4140	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. I must say, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not here today to entertain myself or to entertain the public. I apologize if I have misread the intensity of my esteemed colleague Kožul, this is where many problems have been brought forth from other colleagues, including myself. I see absolutely nothing that is fun and what is to entertain the public and I think that as the most constitutional and legislative body that has unsuspecting responsibilities in this area should have a permanent agenda point concerning the work of judicial institutions, and given all that is happening within that branch of government. During my presentation, I listed only some of the problems directly reflected on every citizen, individual, from which part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory he comes. It's terrible life stories. People are killing each other for court decisions, and we don't know that. People are killing themselves for prosecution, and that's what we don't know here, actually, I know. So much, with full respect for attitudes, and I agree that this should have been with much more information, and with prepared materials, but ultimately, it speaks about the relationship of the entire judicial system to what is responsible to the citizens, but also to the other two branches of government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4141	Thank you. Representative Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4142	Look, co-worker Kožul may be partially and right, we don't know if Mr. Tegeltija did it or not, but where are we right, and colleague Kožul isn't? The moment the disciplinary judge said he didn't want to investigate or say – okay, here's the deal, he didn't do anything, then he suspected it, and then we had to react. Is there greater misery and is there greater evidence that political parties have influence over the court when the Judiciary Council, which is composed of Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, votes against war crimes and now, here, so as not to hurt anyone, when voting on one of the orders of the people who committed the heinous crimes, is against condemning them. Is there greater misery that the judge at the top of a state says, "Okay, this is a member of my people, and I will not vote that he is a war criminal?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4143	Thank you. Advocacy Alma Čolo, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4144	Thank you, Chairman. I have nothing, uh, to correct Mr. Kožul's discussion, I appreciate his attitude and his discussion, but during his presentation, he said that the data provided in the VTSV report were correct. However, I want to say that the data that has been presented on these 110 pages is designed to show that the judiciary functions perfectly and I'm only going to give you one example that these data are not accurate. They said this - the total number of criminal charges is against 51,673 people, out of those 51,000, 20,000 investigations were launched and they calculated that it was 65%. The naked eye shows that out of 51,000 20,000 investigations is not 65%, that's if we're going to make a 40% right and it's all like this in this report. They make some of their criteria to measure the success of the work of courts and prosecutors, which are actually wrong. An order not to conduct an investigation, you have the right to be damaged to appeal to the College of Prosecutors. The prosecutor's college will never make a different decision and they say their orders are 100% successful. These are the criteria that are distorted and which do not lead to accurate data, in particular these calculations that are not correct. 20,000 out of 51,000 can't be 65%.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4145	Thank you, counselor. Branislav Borenović, a correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4146	Thank you. Well, I think that really Parliament is the place where we should first give an assessment of the state of work of judicial institutions, that it is our obligation as legislators of functions and we are expected to do so and I see no reason why we would not do so, and I think we are all in agreement with what the situation in the judiciary is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We all need to make it clear and talk about what the greatest shortcomings are and what it is necessary to do that so that holders of judicial positions or privileges as they now seem, be more responsible and do their job effectively, honestly, legally and in the interest of citizens who expect justice and the truth for numerous cases. To dozens of serious abuses, 23 criminal corruptions, murders, people who are unprotected and that's not what I'm talking about. We must, if nothing else is to be made, and I see that we agree that the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council must be changed urgently, that there must be a way for a subsidiary prosecutor to be found, to give the chance that the damaged party has the right to prosecute in a judicial procedure, that the work of judicial holders of functions must be done more responsibly and that they must be held accountable by official duty, if they miss a certain action, they have done great damage. What does it mean when you do not make a decision or order to conduct an investigation against n.n. faces for the murder in 30 or 90 or 100 days and give someone a chance to hide the evidence, and you don't answer? Did you do that with someone? Was it an agreement to disprove the truth and justice of those who eagerly await it and wrongfully defiance, with their dissatisfaction, even on the street with justice? They say they are unhappy with the state of justice system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4147	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4148	Well, here, I'm going to spend one correction on the wrong quote, even if I'm going to need it later to, here, just tell my colleague Čolo that I didn't say that these materials were correct, but that this is a set of statistical indicators concerning any money, any items that may be accurate and that as such are not relevant material for the agenda point as it is addressed.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4149	Thank you very much. Representative Zlatan Begić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4150	The Honorable Chairman. Just to be clear, then, in the part where I was talking about prosecutions, I would add to the persecution carried out against institutions, citizens by public authorities institutions, even when it comes to citizens seeking their rights, using democratic means. So we have no prosecution procedures where they should be, and it seems to me that the system of public authorities institutions... is directed towards citizens when they justifiably demand some of their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4151	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, all present, I welcome you all. 24 For the first time, I would like to refer to several findings that my colleagues, Magazinović, Begić, Helez and Čolo presented at the expense of my colleague Predrag Kožul's discussion. Namely, colleagues Magazinović and Begić said that we had something to say, if we hadn't been concrete at one time, I would say yes, and confirm what my colleague Kožul said, that we met today without having any material. Will we vote on the VSTV report at the end of this session today? It is the only material, it is the only material on the trail of what my colleague Kožul was saying, and in earlier times, I will remind you that we have been looking for and someone has been saying here, I think fellow Bijedić, that these are not just mere statistics, we have asked the leaders, different institutions to give their attention to the material they have given us. That they say what the situation is in that institution, including from the prosecutors, and also from the president of the VSTV, but we never got it, but we made our own conclusions that Mrs. Čolo was pulling out, like this or like that, or me, so it doesn't matter. The other thing, Comrade Helez, is not just a disciplinary judge, so in this case you've been talking about, I've been waiting a year for a disciplinary judge's answer to the arrest of a group of six men in Kiseljak who were released in the prosecution proceedings because they were not guilty of anything, there's no evidence in the prosecution. He told me a disciplinary judge, to me as an agent, to initiate the procedure, to be a party to the proceedings. So we talked about it, and we talked essentially, we asked these institutions, we don't think today is material prepared, that we can't, as a colleague took VSTV's report and told us about this, about what, and so, she had an elaborate on everything she saw there and she read, so we don't have it. And that's why it seems to us, with all due respect to fellow Begić, that only some of you have prepared today to say here in public what you know about this subject, which is why we think it's just an impression, we don't have to be right. So, you've been talking about the facts that we in this House talk about who knows how many, five, six years, and how to choose a prosecutor, and how to introduce the profession, how... etc. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So we've already said that, but once we get that material, either the VSTV Act, or any information, then your debate will make sense. She makes sense today, but we don't have the material, what are we gonna do at the end of all these stories I'd love to Yeah, I know. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4153	I'd like to thank the representative. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4154	I thank the chairman. Article 82(2) of the Rules of Procedure concerning the finding of counterpart Lovrinović that we have no material. When several proposals for conclusions arise from the debate on the agenda, etc., the House shall vote on the conclusions. So we're going to be here, we already have one proposed, obviously we're going to be more, and in any case, the conclusions are obviously coming out of the debate on the agenda point. Therefore, there is absolutely no claim that we do not have the material, I think that we will have it very much by the end of this session, and that we will need a break to consider all the material that, as the Rules of Procedure himself says, stems from the debate on the agenda point. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4155	I'd like to thank the representative. We are going back to the debate, Agent Zlatan Begić is the third correction, you have no business right to do so. She's a representative of Edita Đapo, a debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4156	Thank you, esteemed chairman. My respects to all colleagues and colleagues, professional services, guests, media and anyone who is following this debate. Today's topic is the current situation in the judiciary, and some have looked back a little, given the retrospective, whether, since '17, here I am going to look back and say what the recommendations of the Venice Commission were back in '12. And in '14. years, and then they warned of weaknesses, anomalies and deviation of the justice system and the VSTV, saying that there is a need to improve the rules for the election of VSTV members, establish two councils, prosecutorial and judicial, avoid national quotas and avoid the influence of politics. What we have today as a recommendation from the European Union for us, to set foot and become a candidate country, is to amend the Law on VSTV and that is something that we all agree on. Political influence, if we look at these recommendations from the Venice Commission was extremely pronounced and, behold, I will only quote Nikolasa Hila who led the American Embassy in '14. year, on his farewell blog, he says – the state's prosecutor's office is under the leadership of the chief prosecutor, who is widely believed to be under serious influence by Bosniak political forces and needs to be zealously working on the depolitisation of the Prosecutor's Office. Also, we have knowledge that the D.A.'s office is doing too many blind followers of the U.S.A., I'm finishing a quote. So, what we had later, we had in the Prosecutor's Office a factual merger of the court and the Prosecutor's Office, I assume you remember the case of Radončić in which the President of the Court of Justice Medžida Kreso and Goran Salihović gave even joint press statements criticising his lawyers and colleagues, as well as Bosnian-Herzegovic intellectuals, that they should not discuss the judiciary. So this influence, is it, here I can say that there has been some improvement, at least today, the court and the prosecution have separated even though, of course, these anomalies are still in the judicial system. What we can see from, is, what was happening during that period, political arrests, I will remind you that Mr. Fahrudin Radončić, Prime Minister of UN-Sancanton, Mr. Lipovača, then former Interior Minister Predrag Kurteš, then Minister of Transport and Telecommunications, Mr. Damir Hadžić. Today we know that these are all innocent people, and we don't need to talk about their honesty and know whether it was political processes. However, all four were arrested with excessively large, excessive use of force, while not even saying that even television recorded their arrests. So there was a violation of the Convention of Human Rights during their arrest, and secondly, what hurts me most as a mother of a minor child is that in the case of Hamdia Lipovača or in the case of Radončić, there was a violation of the Convention of Children's Rights. The attack that was committed, i.e. the incursion of the police, which I suppose was led by the prosecutor in Mr. Hamdia Lipovača's house where you had your underage children probably up to five years of age, is whether, for me, and I believe for most of the citizens who saw it on TV, it caused a reviling of knowing how many children, underage children, young children, physically and mentally, is whether, fragile and how much something like seeing those specials with masks and long pipes, how much that shock can affect them, and even physical and psychological development. A similar situation occurred in the Radončić case. You know how he was arrested, whether, near Sarajevo, on the highway. At the same time, however, the members of the SIPA or those other 26 investigative agencies were sent to Avaz, to the apartment, to the house and to the apartment where his underage son was. Wasn't there a need, couldn't he knock on a cop and a cop and explain to the child that he was afraid, because of the destruction of some evidence or something, that he was going to sit with the child for an hour, two, three, until the mother arrived, but they pointed guns at the child? So, it's a terrible violation of children's rights, and I ask this House to make a statement about the conclusion in which the Council of Ministers is in charge of providing funding, here, there's a minister of justice so now let him assess whether he's going to negotiate with, whether, some embassies, our friends who, here we see from the VSTV report, pay a lot of that education or from the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget, in order to train the prosecutors, but also the agencies that enforce the law as well as how they can arrest hard-working criminals, people who deal with other, I don't know, human trafficking, organ trafficking, and not hurt children. We have an expert, a psychiatrist, a psychologist, who can give you training, and surely, if you look at the law of the security agencies, the police silent, uh, police academy programs where they're trained that they should learn about it. But here, I want to urgently enable the education of prosecutors and those who enforce the law in order not to violate the Convention of Children's Rights. Here, since I have more time, I'm going to look back on that the D.A.'s problem is obviously the D.A.'s office. There are some recommendations, whether or not it needs to be isolated from the VSTV, but it is obvious that we have an untransparent and unsatisfactory system where prosecutors do not assess the proportionate effect or actions you have done, they are inappropriate and do not have that preventive character. If someone has not launched any proceedings for 22 or 27 cases, they are fined 10%, if someone has pleaded guilty... to testify in certain cases to receive a 30% reduction in salary. What kind of message does he send to other prosecutors and judges? None, they'll do whatever they want. Therefore, prosecutors, i.e. the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor, the sanctions he gives, must consider that they are effective and I think it is best to be transparent in order to see that public influence again and so that we as the public, and especially we here in Parliament, can give someone our opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4157	Thank you. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4158	I welcome, above all, the chairman and all present. I also said at that previous session, which is the session at which we discussed the agenda that I think the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is sufficient to discuss exactly the situation in the judiciary, therefore, those bad things in the judiciary. I am very pleased that this topic has come to the agenda, since we all know that the perception of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that our judiciary is completely inefficient, that simply people are discouraged in advance when they start court proceedings, primarily because of thinking that the judiciary is not exactly impartial, then because of the expensive costs of the procedure, and especially because of the length of the procedure. I will, therefore, only in the discussion will I remain on the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and I believe that this is the subject today and the basis for this debate, and I would like to refer a little bit to a colleague who said that we are here today, on a colleague of the Kožul, because there have been 27 affairs that are suspicious etc. I mean, it was just probably the highlight of what was happening that finally made us conscious, so to speak, to put this item on the agenda by emergency procedure. I'll get right on it, here, on the report in terms of most of the VSTV composition that's listed in the report. Namely, only a summer search of electronic media when we start from one to another member of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council shows that most of them have been associated with sneezing affairs and that it seems that the judiciary has become a reference to the highest judicial and prosecutorial functions if we have affairs behind us, which is embarrassing in any case. The Law itself on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council says that members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council must be persons, among other things, of high moral quality. What did we see in that famous video about this affair? So we saw that the president of the VSTV in the bar spoke to the party in the proceedings, asked him about the data in the case and, therefore, did not behave according to those criteria that were laid down by law, but also by their ethical code. The report also states, and related, therefore, to these principles of morality and ethics and so on, that improved ethical codes are related to the work of both judges and prosecutors in 2018 and that therefore, the concept of integrity and proper behaviour was introduced. Is it proper that the president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council meets at the bar and, as I have already said, in an inappropriate way discusses a case? The report states that close to 100 million was spent from 2004 to 2018 for judicial reform, and here we are today discussing the situation in the judiciary in the sense that it has very little and that the objective of this judicial reform has not been achieved. I was so little surprised, but also worried about the report's findings that media inscriptions violate the reputation and independence of the judiciary. If all of these conditions are met, both in law and ethical code for judges and prosecutors, then the media would have little to do, because today we are in a position to see that the media are actually revealing affairs rather than dealing with crime in a legally prescribed way. What hurts me as a woman in some way and what I saw in this report is also a finding when it comes to gender equality that awareness of gender equality within the judiciary is in the middle. Please, we have the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination, one is already in effect for ten, one nine years, and we still have awareness of gender equality at a low level when it comes to both courts and prosecutors, and they show that it is actually researching the NGO sector that this, not at the middle level, but that it is at a low level, because neither judges nor prosecutors themselves know whether it is in the realm of discrimination, gender inequality, etc. And in the end, I would just say that 895 complaints about the work of law enforcement holders are certainly speaking in what state our judiciary is in and that, therefore, the VSTV cannot be commended for any success. And it is certain that the issue of amending the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council must be considered, especially when it comes to the responsibility of the members of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Board, because they really do not know who they are responding to, who can prosecute them except, of course, some criminal procedure, etc. So the judiciary should be impartial, it should be independent, but in any case it does not involve self-will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4159	Thank you, counsel. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go, counsel. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4160	Thank you, Chairman. The fact is that this item of the agenda was triggered by a video recording of a meeting in a bar between the VSTV president, the SIPA inspector, the party in the current procedure, and, in order for the picture to be quite complete, the godfather. This is how jokes begin in America, the president of the VSTV, the SIPA inspector, the party in the process and the best man enters the bar, but unfortunately this is not a joke. That video is real and it is unacceptable that we are not here, in this House, to discuss the next day as it would be the case in every democratic country in which there is a rule of law, in every country of the European Union whose membership we are seeking, and that is the essence of this whole thing. We are not going to become a member of the European Union, we are not going to get candidate status or to open key chapters as long as we have such a situation in the VSTV, and thus in the judiciary because the VSTV roof of the judicial system is not only at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but at all levels, state, entity and cantonal. We will not take a step towards the European Union as long as the VSTV gives its president less than 15 minutes from the beginning of the session at which they discussed it, so that footage lasts for about 15 minutes, and it is unclear on the basis of which they have given that Bianca support. If you don't believe what I'm saying, look at the embassies of countries asking questions about it, including the European Commission. We will not take a step towards membership in the European Union as long as anyone in this country makes decisions that clearly hold that it is a body, or one of their members above, outside or beyond the law, if you doubt what I am saying, look at these statements. We will not move towards the European Union until consciousness is established here that it is not acceptable for political and judicial officials to establish or maintain, have close contacts and relations, especially non-transparent nature. Communication beyond institutional mechanisms, official channels, between representatives of one branch and another, is unacceptable in countries where there is a rule of law. And now we come to why, why won't we move forward towards the European Union? Because perception is enough. After that video was released, I was saddened to watch lawyers and self-proclaimed dignitaries compete with the analysis that there was no crime. To be perfectly clear, it would be equally sad to see someone claiming to have a crime, not because of the presumption of innocence, but because the criminal aspect here is completely, completely irrelevant. The messages that we will not move towards the European Union did not come from these embassies because of criminal nature, they certainly did not engage in criminal responsibility. We received these messages because of the perception that is catastrophic, and perception is proportionate to trust, and when there is no trust, there is no rule of law, because when there is no trust from our key allies whose membership we are seeking, and the institution whose membership we are seeking, then these countries and institutions have no one to work with to establish the rule of law. The European Union has not removed anyone from the list of passengers in Paris because of the existence or lack of criminal responsibility, but because of a catastrophic perception and a complete lack of trust. All these statements, these moves and the future measures of our key allies and institutions whose membership we seek are sufficient evidence that this VSTV meeting has lost its ability to implement the necessary reforms, to run processes that will depend on the first test, even when we get candidate status. It is known which chapters are first opened, those concerning the rule of law. Here in this House, for the purposes of this debate, it doesn't matter whether in three, four years' time, because so many proceedings, one of these people is convicted, here, for the purposes of this debate, in this House, whether Bosnia and Herzegovina will open up and close some chapters for EU membership for the three, four years. With this VSTV synergy, with this condition in that system, I guarantee you we won't even open it in three, four years. If you don't trust me, read again the statements and messages of our key allies, the institutions that decide. It is necessary to point out that the situation is not hopeless, that the judiciary is not entirely like this. On the contrary, the vast majority of judges and prosecutors honestly, independent of institutions, and not in front of 29 cameras, are doing their job. If it wasn't for that, it wouldn't have anything to start with. I pointed out on several occasions in public statements, the president of the VSTV before the outbreak of this affair had about 77,000 hits when you type his name on the google. After the affair broke out, there are now over 200,000, but the day before the outbreak of 77,000. His deputy, you guess which one, close to 50,000. It's too much even for an average politician, let alone a judicial official. To compare, the president of the State Judicial Council of the Republic of Croatia, Darko Milković, has about 2,000 hits, his deputy, Gordana Jalšovečki, is less than 1,000. People don't run in front of cameras, they don't advertise on every subject, they don't write opinions on legal issues on facebook, they don't meet with parties in current bar procedures, they don't threaten the media, and that's exactly how it should be. This is how it is done in the European Union whose membership we are seeking. However, like these two judicial officials from a neighbouring country who is a member of the European Union, as well as they are doing, the vast majority of judges and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina and precisely because of this quiet, professional and fair majority of the country and its EU aspirations have a chance at all, but on this road this House has an obligation to play its part and not to keep everything in this debate. At the beginning of the term of office, I have already directed an initiative to amend and supplement the VSTV Act in order to introduce close relatives of judicial employees into conflict of interest in the same way as it does to the elected and appointed officials, to prevent situations that my colleague Helez was talking about here, but that the House is not sitting, this has not yet been discussed. Therefore, in order for us not to wait for the House to start again in regular sessions, I propose, in accordance with Article 29 (1) of Rule (b) of the Rules of Procedure, the establishment of a temporary investigative committee of this House to investigate the current situation in the judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with particular reference to the ability of the VSTV to participate in the processes necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina's European Union membership. The Commission shall, in accordance with the same Rule of Procedure, have the task of carrying out all the necessary actions to achieve these objectives which I have just stated in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Control and the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 29(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission shall be at least five and no more than nine members. Any club wishing to participate in the work of this Commission may deliver no later than one member of the Commission within seven days of the adoption of this conclusion. Clubs that do not want are not mandatory, the only restriction is that the commission should count five members, and the member of the Rules of Procedure that I have just quoted provides that the House determines the composition and number of members of the Commission, therefore, it is not set up or potted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4161	Thank you, counsel. Representative jasmin Emrić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4162	I thank the chairman. Here's what my colleague Arnaut explained to all of us why we met today and why we have this item on the agenda of the 2nd emergency session. It's not because our promoters were bored so we didn't have anything else to suggest for the agenda of the emergency session, but because the situation in the judiciary had a perceptive failure and it was seen as a very, very harmful influence it had on the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. The colleagues also asked questions here as to why the proposal for this emergency session also included the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and also expressed observations that there is no material for this first item of the agenda, and the item of the agenda is – 30 The current situation in the judicial institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with an emphasis on the commitments made by the European Commission. Here I would now remind my colleagues that in this Annual Report for 2018 in Chapter 1. The European integration, under point 1.1., is the realisation of the recommendations resulting from the Pierre Review mission. In this Chapter, which has about nine-and-a-half pages of text, nearly ninety-one are listed, almost ninety-one recommendations are listed, of course there are more and more than one of them are all taxed here, but they are most important and highlighted. So in this Chapter, which is related to this agenda point, the recommendations of Pierre Review on judicial disciplinary proceedings are 34, meaning 34 recommendations related to disciplinary proceedings. And we have just seen the weakness of disciplinary proceedings and the implementation of disciplinary proceedings by the disciplinary committees appointed by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in the most famous affair of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which is in connection with President Tegeltija, which is called in the media and "Stoking". Also in the part of the appointment of a judicial function holder is 27 recommendations. Assessment of the work of the holder of judicial functions, a very important recommendation relating to the assessment of the holder of judicial functions and a draft regulation has been made to improve the assessment of judicial functions. In part of the personal financial statements there are 10 recommendations. In the area of education 13 recommendations. Fighting corruption and organised crime, including money laundering 7 recommendations. Which means this, this is the Chapter and how it makes material for today's debate and material based on which you can and suggest very concrete conclusions, and I will eventually look back at those conclusions. Today, the key issue, too, is for us as members of this distinguished House to express our position on the current situation in the judiciary and the judicial system and to refer to the current "potkivanje“ affair, which is related to the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, Mr. Tegeltija. I also believe that the affair caused by the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has violated the reputation of the judicial institutions most of all has violated the reputation of the call, this current summons of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and they seem to me to be the victim of this inadmissible and unacceptable behaviour of the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. The President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council must not allow himself to come into such a context at all and in such a situation, and that is the point. As president, he must have known there was a conflict of interest if he was at the bar talking to the party about a specific case. I read the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, first I asked myself a question – Why is it called the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, why is it not just called the Law on the Judiciary and Prosecutor's Council? So precisely because the legislator wanted to stress that this is a high position, that this is the highest level of professional action, transparency, objectivity and expertise in the work and whoever wants to be a member of such a body must know that it is in the highest judicial position and must not allow itself any situation of unacceptable, inappropriate behaviour, and that is where we must send this message by not entering into the examination of facts now and today in this session. The media, the professional public said about this, they said everything, we are the last to talk about it today, but we must send messages that as members of this distinguished body we have our own position on the current situation and we have not brought the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council into this situation but the president who made them the scapegoat and they have fallen into that trap, played very irresponsiblely and very irresponsiblely carried out the disciplinary procedure. And now we have a general position of mistrust in the judicial system and judicial institutions, and there are the largest number of honest people and professionals who want to do their part of the job and they are advertising through the media these days, they said, they gave their own court, they expect us to tell our own court and we'll tell our own court today, we'll tell our discussions and we didn't need any concrete materials. And I ask the question – from whom will we get concrete material about a concrete affair that best shows the overall situation in the judicial system? It's the top of the pyramid that collapsed, and when 31 came down, it couldn't be stopped, because the pyramids of the pyramids are steep and falling to the bottom. Therefore, we are not the ones who took part in bringing this call to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in this situation but those who did not respond in a timely and sober manner, and this is my judgment and did not carry out the disciplinary procedure in the best possible way. When the acts are read and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council are read there is no record of the President's right to sit in a pub and discuss cases, there is nothing there. And in this section, in this chapter, Chapter 1 of this Annual Report, it was not necessary to read the entire Annual Report only Chapters 1 and 10 of these first pages, it was stated that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council had amended the Ethics Code and had specifically improved, among other things, the integrity and proper behaviour. Well, please, so they changed it in 2018, it's in the area of disciplinary proceedings in the BiH judiciary, it's beautifully stated, it's page 17, and they don't stick to it. Why? Well, because I'm the president, as president, there's nothing to it. Well, if he wasn't a judge, he couldn't even be a member of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. What kind of messages are these from the disciplinary committees, so we don't get into the details? I support earlier conclusions and will therefore read two conclusions that are in some way related to earlier proposals: 1. The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly supports the recommendations of the Pierre Review reports set out in Chapter 1 of point 1.1. The implementation of recommendations stemming from the Pierre Review mission of the Annual Report for 2018 of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, and a particularly adopted initiative for the revision of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. BiH Justice Ministry, BiH Council of Ministers tasked with forming an inter-resor working group to implement all of these recommendations and on the basis of the same and above initiatives, draw up a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 2. The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calls on the members and members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to, in accordance with Article 6 (1) point (c) of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, take individual resignations, thus accepting full responsibility and show that the members of the Council are persons of high moral quality and professional quality. Known for the effectiveness and expertise and professional impartiality as set out in Article 4(2) of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4163	Thank you, counsel. Representative Dragan Mektić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4164	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome colleagues, MPs, MPs, distinguished guests. 32 I would refer a little bit to some of the discussions that appeared here, and I have no intention of plowing with any MP here, maybe I would just mention what Mr., the Honorable Messenger Kožul said, listing the conditions that we need to get here to open a debate like this, and he said that we should do this, this, this, this, and everything is otherwise a party for the people. I'm not sure that it's up to the people to have fun, I think that by this party that we've been entertaining the people for years, I've been thinking of a complete political elite, and among other things, this Parliament where we're coming in today, the people have been choked. If we continue to entertain them like this, I think they'll continue, the only answer they'll have is how they react to this whole situation, and that's to run away from these spaces. Secondly, I would like to perhaps ask myself or all of us here – what is the purpose of the conclusions of this House, what do they mean, is it a mere formality, if they commit to anyone, if we follow those conclusions, what if these conclusions are not realized or we are beating empty straw here in this House? And that's what I'm asking you because there's already one piece of information on the situation in the judiciary on the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, I think somewhere in mid-2017, we've brought, here are seven conclusions. I don't know if you have them here, there's too much to read, but the Department of Justice, the Council of Ministers, the new law, the tralalalalala, this, what you've seen since 2017, none of them have been realised, none. Is that the fate and these conclusions we're going to make here today? If the fate of this Parliament's conclusions is like those of 2017, I do not feel the need to go out in this Parliament or to propose conclusions, nor do I vote for those conclusions... I have another kind of communication with the citizens, which is how I go out through the media and tell the citizens what I think and call on the citizens, to say so, on a general pressure that the situation is changing here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I have no need to participate here in making pointless conclusions. sledeći thing you know, he says if we have the materials we need to discuss today on this agenda point. Everyone was saying, most of it was saying we have a report, the report is a cause.... it could be material for discussion etc. etc. I have a completely different opinion, for me, the VSTV report is a set of irrelevant data and largely incorrect data, and I don't see that it can be a motive at all and reason here and cause us to conduct a debate on the state of the VSTV. Where they went to education, what, they didn't specify the destinations exotically to which they went. And not to speak any further, so that's not relevant to me at all, that doesn't matter at all. For me, the motive is to discuss this situation for the perception of the citizens of this country and the mistrust of citizens in the judicial and judicial power in this country. If you want further reasons, whether we have an OSCE analysis that has disastrously assessed the work of judicial institutions within Bosnia and Herzegovina and said what manipulations are used to distract the public here in Bosnia and Herzegovina to do something. So he says clumping objects, pulling into, one object is torn into six or seven objects, so that they can achieve some standard, so again in war crimes they traumatize victims, etc. etc. So, then, OSCE's analysis is a cause for discussion? Are the European Union's recommendations enough material and cause for this debate, which also disastrously assessed the work of judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly from the point of view of corruption and crime? So there have been several embassies here, which we all here today have seen as well-intentioned, as embassies who want to help here in the judicial system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who donated huge funds to establish here the rule of law and the rule of law, and which even those in this report of the VSTV call our international friends on and announced a statement, not to say what it is, you saw, you heard probably, you read. And then the VSTV deputy president stood up, Ružica Jukić, and said – they will not interfere with our work, they cannot interfere with the work of the judiciary. She taught them a lesson, threatened them, and these are countries that have a hundred-year system of rule of law, respect for 33 laws, the rule of law, a democratic system. But no, untouchable, VSTV is untouchable. Even in this case has it been proven, in this affair "potkivanje“ Milan Tegeltija that he has committed, here is to say either a criminal act or even a disciplinary violation of his duty. Let's just say it doesn't matter. What does it matter? Which the disciplinary commission, appointed by the VSTV, said the disciplinary report was illegal. So there's no responsibility, there's no responsibility for him. You see, he's a judge once when it comes to him, and in this case as VSTV president for whom there is no responsibility. So whoever in this country has no responsibility, no responsibility for their work, etc.? You can see that they have estranged from the state, estranged from the people and directly contributed that Bosnia and Herzegovina is complete today in one system of hard corruption, that corruption is the way of life and the way it happens, let me say, both institutional and every other way of life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Isn't there a reason for a debate on the situation in the judiciary, I said, a catastrophic perception of citizens, and I'm going to tell you that even a certain number of judicial officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina have raised their voice, not to say, under quotes, a rebellion against the VSTV and I said this is not how no one can, this system no longer works, this system fails, this is falling apart. Well, rule of law in one country is the basic foundation for each, for the development of all other areas of life in that country. Well, you do if you don't. legal certainty, then you have no economy, which will normal [[the speaker is warned on time]] Smart, here's a bill, a foreign investor to come to the state here, bring his own capital if there's no legal certainty. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And I'd have a lot more to say, here I'm going to end up with our club having a proposal of conclusions set out for today's debate, which they're going to deliver to you here and I'm going to say publicly support this initiative and Damir Arnaut's proposal to form an investigative committee and to once start working and providing, we're going to try to give hope to the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4165	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4166	I will ask, or require professional services, that a stenogram of what I have said delivers to fellow Mektić and me, I would not burden other colleagues, in order to make it clear that in no context, and especially in the context of dating, I did not mention the people. I'm normally extremely careful not to invite myself here and anywhere else to people and citizens, which is a common practice, I'd say, in this House. Similarly, what was interesting to me in the presentation of fellow Mektić, he is one of the 14 signatories of the motion to convene this emergency session, and he, together with this request, has submitted the High Court and Prosecutorial Council's Report as material. We've heard from him here that this material is not good, it doesn't make any sense from the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4167	Thank you, counsel. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4168	So, I refer to what my colleague Mektić said, under Article 82, we will have to make a statement about this report because it is material, except for the conclusions you have proposed. So, whatever you consider him to be one or the other, read the second sentence, it seems to me, and you will see. But as far as I'm concerned, I can't believe the Secretary of Security is talking like this, I can't believe it, I can't trust people, so you're still the Minister of Security. So... so why didn't you spend those conclusions from 2017 on the Council of Ministers? Well, you needed them, so whomever you're holding, so who am I? I can't get what you're doing here. Who's entertaining the people? So you people are entertaining. Leave the seat of MPs and the Council of Ministers and take the people where you keep calling and leading them. Well, Mr. Minister, what are you, a colleague, so you're in the Council of Ministers, so you're... you're the Minister of Security. You're telling us what's going on in the judiciary, here now after four years, five. So why didn't you say that three years ago, four... this, we said at the beginning those who called this session were for these reports all these years. Don't let me tell my colleague Arnaut that he was for all the reports, my colleague Emrić for two, he wasn't at one vote. That's what we're talking about, so give us the material, which you didn't write us, here as a security minister, so let's discuss your material, what you just said, what you didn't write, to discuss as colleagues, to discuss as Parliament. Well, I can't come to my senses, colleague, minister, I don't know what you are anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4169	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4170	Thank you, Chairman. Apparently, at the discussion of counterpart Lovrinović, first of all, when it comes to voting on the former VSTV reports, hundreds of thousands of people in Austria gave a voice to Strahe, but then the video appeared and that the Strahe now went to the free elections telling you that hundreds of thousands of people voted would not have received a man or a thousand votes. This is where the footage appeared, colleague Lovrinović, and you cannot ignore the fact that the occasion for this session and the agenda point is a disastrous video that in normal states where the rule of law takes place tectonic changes, not threats to the media and those who show that such a video is disastrous. As far as this is concerned, I'm just here as, as someone who knows something about these issues, I need to correct the wrong assumption that the Minister of Security should have done something about this, it's the sole jurisdiction of the Justice Minister. And when you mention years ago, before, now, three years ago, four years ago, to go on, eight years ago, 12 years ago, the minister of justice was always from HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4171	Thank you, counsel. Dragan Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4172	Well, first of all, I'm glad that I caused this reaction after this discussion, so it was kind of provocative and it was worth something, but I would have responded to Mr. Lovrinović, he was partially answered by Damir Arnaut. I didn't mean to mention these conclusions and all that you've been saying, but here's what I'm going to tell you -- point one is in charge of the BiH Justice Ministry, so now, to meet the conditions set out in points 2 and 3. Point 5 is in charge of the BiH Justice Ministry. Point 6 is in charge of the BiH Ministry of Justice. Point 7. The BiH Justice Ministry is tasked with doing what you've been saying now. Well, this is the jurisdiction of the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4173	And the Council of Ministers. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4174	And the Council of Ministers, but the Ministry of Justice, I'm sorry, I have no intention, I had no intention of provoking a colleague here Josip, I've strictly kept an eye on that, but you've now failed to discuss this discussion to speak clearly and openly. So, the Ministry of Justice, the proposal to the Council of Ministers and I as a Council of Ministers, a member of the Council of Ministers, I bear that responsibility, but you can't call on the Minister of Security to propose laws in the field of justice and neither do I know the prosecution and the judiciary, so then you should be specific, you know who's in charge of that, but here's the account you tried to deceive all of us together here, it didn't pass, nobody -- peace, peace, no one's guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4175	Representative jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4176	So just to clarify, counterpart Lovrinović set an example that I voted in favour of some reports by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Yes, of course, I voted, my colleague Lovrinović, with the intention of supporting the reforms that were in those reports, these reports are usually a set of statistics, what has been done, which cannot be changed. I also supported the appointment of the Council of Ministers with the intention to open the reform path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to implement the reform agenda, and I did not support them working this sloppyly, not to do anything, that we do not usually have a timely reaction to any incident situation or to the migrant crisis, etc. That's what I supported, but that doesn't mean that I agree with what they're doing and of course I have the right to criticise it. In this particular situation, my colleague Lovrinović, it is very important that the House of Representatives act on a certain phenomenon, on an incident. That's when, that's when we have to give part of ourselves, where we have to make our position clear and loud. Doesn't mean that I'm talking about the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council having to resign to defend professionalism, to restore confidence in the judicial system and institutions. Because I'm asking a question - what can this High Court and Prosecutor's Council do now to restore citizens' trust in the judicial system, in judicial institutions, in the rule of law, what can it do? Well, there's nothing I can do about embezzling it, they've spent it, and it's not my fault they did it, they're the High Court and Prosecution Council, in every situation they have to behave highly professionally, responsibly, and not to say, you know, we didn't have enough information, so he cheated on us, everything was fast, called a 9:00 session, we didn't get along. Who couldn't handle it? Members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council have failed. [[the speaker is warned on time]] What are we talking about? They're judges, they're prosecutors, high-quality, professional, who have to give the best answer in any situation, because they're the ones who oversee a complete judicial system. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4177	Thank you. We're going back to the debate. Representative Dženan Đonlagić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4178	Honored chairman, colleagues and colleagues. What I am about to say through my discussion is actually a quote from the European Commission's Opinion on the judiciary and the urgent need for its reform. So, if anyone had any doubts about whether there was a reason for one such exhaustive discussion and the need for this discussion, I think that after the really good and quality discussions we've had since the beginning of this session, there is no longer this dilemma and that doubt. The first quote, therefore, from the Opinion of the European Commission – In vrijeme important reforms were carried out in the area of justice, especially through the establishment of the Court of Justice and the self-regulatory judicial body, so this VSTV. The constitutional and legislative framework is incomplete, therefore it is in the opinion, and does not guarantee sufficient independence, independence, responsibility and efficiency of the judiciary. So, very clearly, it's very explicit that what he has now is not good. The VSTV and the state-level judicial system should have explicit constitutional status. The VSTV Act should be revised in order to better regulate the appointment and evaluation of the work of members of the judiciary and disciplinary proceedings against them, and to ensure appropriate legal remedies against VSTV's judicial decisions. Another quote – borba corruption and organised crime interferes with the country's insufficiently harmonised regulations and poor institutional co-operation and coordination. Corruption has spread, and all levels of government show signs that they are under policy control which directly affects the everyday lives of citizens, especially in the areas of health, education, employment and public procurement. The strategic policy framework and the institutional and legal framework for preventing corruption are fragmented and have significant shortcomings. Law enforcement agencies are fragmented and subject to inappropriate political interference. So this is what they think in the European Union about the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They say further – tužilac are not proactive enough, financial investigations and confiscation of assets are mostly inefficient. It is necessary to step up the fight against money laundering. The third quote – The Constitutional Court is an interpreter of the Constitution and the last instance when it comes to conflicting jurisdiction between different levels of government. The professionalism and independence of the Constitutional Court judges should be strengthened starting with the improvement of the criteria for their selection and the appointment procedures. Finally, it is more than clear that it is necessary to implement a comprehensive reform of the judiciary in line with the measures, i.e. the recommendations made by the European Commission in such a way as to practice in the countries of the European Union. All employees in the judicial system must have such a level of personal integrity that would guarantee their assumed independence. According to all judicial staff, there should be established standards that allow for correction when they are not doing their job well. In particular, attention should be paid to the new legislative solution to the measures of the European Commission's opinion which must contain a better procedure for the appointment and evaluation of 37 members of the judiciary and possible disciplinary proceedings against them. As an example, here, I will only list the choice of judges, for example, the Constitutional Court of BiH, who are elected to unlimited mandates, so life-long, which gives them the opportunity to make very bad, sometimes questionable, and possibly politically motivated decisions. The mandate of all participants in the judicial system must be limited, must be subject to re-election on the basis of the results of their work and must contain such criteria that all employees in the judicial system are selected on the basis of the results of previous work, not as is the case in many judicial institutions, on the basis of the proximity of one of the political parties. All of these are not actually made-up things, so it is not fiction, but what the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in one of the last, so the relationship with the European Union got in writing, all of these are elements that require the amendments of many laws in this area, the adoption of new laws where we should be guided, therefore, by measures or recommendations from the European Commission's opinion. Unless it is done without it, therefore, the candidate status of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union will simply not be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4179	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4180	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, I didn't say that until now, but I'm sorry to really have to talk about what my colleagues said, because there's no material. The VSTV report was reported somewhere in the regular session, but today it is as material and on the agenda. So let's not let fellow Mektić think that he's got me on thin ice, now we're gonna ask him new questions, there's gonna be more points, so we're gonna see who's gonna put who on thin ice. So I have to talk about what you're saying because we said it's not the time to discuss it today, because we don't have the material. You all claim we have material, so when you get up that material, I don't know what you're doing to it, and you claim we do. We were just saying that this is a topic for discussion, of course, but not today and not in this way, we're not against that debate. And secondly, my colleague Emriću and colleague Arnaut, so I shouldn't have had an incident so I could be against the VSTV report, but I've been persistent against it for five years, and you needed an incident to figure out what was going on in the VSTV, if that's what we're gonna talk about. I say again, I'm sorry to have to refer to your statements on the matter, because I have nothing else to go on. So, kolega Mektić is, abuse of the situation that both the representative is here and that Mr. Coli, his minister, is not able to talk about what he's saying, and he won't say that some things and he's moving on to the Council of Ministers, so they haven't passed, so you're standing in a technical mandate, so you're talking about the rule of law, so safety, however, give it to Mr. Mektić, get yourself together, what you are, who you are and what you want to be. Be a representative, there's no problem, just then identify what you want to be. Be a legal state, be you, you can't say as Minister of Security that it's none of your business what's going on in the Council of Ministers, as if you were an opposition this four year. Only the Minister of Justice is the Council of Ministers whether, and he was running a man of certain procedures and laws, but you know they didn't pass. So don't talk like that. The second thing, colleagues are, and yet I say, I'm sorry to have to refer to their speeches, their said things here, talk about justice, and I was very interested in the story of how this Law on VSTV brought the OHR, how the international community... Excellently, 38, so I enjoyed hearing it in this House here, and when that same OHR changed the Federation Constitution, when it changed the constitutions of the county, when it changed the Statute of Mostar, so we've been talking for ten years about what to do to one people's decisions by such institutions and individuals, then it doesn't matter in this House, then it doesn't matter that someone in our Electoral Law, using it, using it to abuse it to choose our representatives, it doesn't matter, and now it's important when there's been an incident of sweating, let's see if this Tegeltija can be at the head of the VSTV or can't. Come on, gentlemen, if you're in favour of the rule of law, be a legal state. The Constitution has changed, therefore, the judge and in the judgment of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci, and the Venice Commission is also talking about that courts cannot change the Constitution, they cannot change the Constitution by their decisions, and this has happened. This happened, therefore, and by the decision of Sejdić-Finc where certain judges were excluded, I was told that there is a discination, but I cannot change by court decisions what was achieved by the Peace Agreement. It's happening, gentlemen, it's happening here. Since 2001, 2002, injustice has been happening to the Croatian people and we cannot come to what is our political right and it is a legal state. Let's not do that, let's leave it for another occasion, and now that we like it about VSTV, when we like it and we'll talk about another incident, and this will remain one if not most important to us, the most important issues are our political position. Our political position, the most important issues. So, we want to talk about it, and certainly about these issues, to sort out this rule of law, that we don't do whatever we want, not to interpret the Constitution any way we want. So, the judicial institutions have reacted in this situation, but, well, we don't like how they react. The high judge should have convicted Mr. Tegelti, and here I am for it, but so we don't like what they've been doing. They reacted as they reacted, so what did we do? You will today's conclusions, Mr. Mektić, which are inconclusive as you say, and those of the former who were. And today we bring them to, who are we leaving it to? What Council of Ministers, when will it be formed? When are we gonna do this? Come on, people, that's why we're saying today it's not the time for this kind of discussion, until we have no material, so we're going to say that material in that chapter, so on that part, etc. So this is how we talk to each other and you say that we don't entertain the people, we don't think this is a theme for people's entertainment, but this is how we do it, here's how we do it, so we'll see, here we'll see fellow Mektić in a year I'll ask you what's up with these conclusions, here I'll ask you, so let's see if they'll be implemented if they're made today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4181	I'd like to thank the representative. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4182	...infringement of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4183	And now you've changed?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4184	I did. Very short. Coli Lovrinović knows that the provisions for calling the session thus states that additional materials can be invested by the end of the debate. So none of us, any of us, were forbidden to, with this material that we, the last time we said how we got to it, 39 took it off the VSTV site, we didn't get it through Parliament, but it was the only thing that was available to us, so everyone can invest additional material including you. I suppose the Minister of Justice could have helped you to make this material rich, why you didn't do it I don't know, but it wasn't our intention to provoke you or anyone else to this, but to allow this to be discussed. I was pleased with the minister's presence, and I expected he might turn around, but here, there's still till the end, and I believe he'll give his judgment about what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4185	Thank you, counsel. Here, now I'm gonna take a word for it. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here today, I would say, after this several-hour debate, we have heard a lot under this topic – the current situation in the judicial institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the aspect of the commitments made by the European Commission, so we have heard material, we have no, so we have heard individual cases, etc., I would not now look back on that part that actually served as the basis for today's debate. I think and I will watch them from the aspect of what, and the desire, that this Bosnia and Herzegovina mouth be a legal state, which is not the case today, which we have seen from the aspect of who ultimately makes decisions and in the last way, I would say, interprets these laws that we have made. Well, regardless, there were some laws, organizational, I don't know, material-legal, process-law or some other nature, they were heard to say, individual cases. Somebody don't think that maybe I or anyone else here who hasn't mentioned it today couldn't talk about any individual cases. I, as a lawyer in politics today, am really interested in my profession, I follow as much as I can the normative part, of course, and everything about what is related to the legal profession, whether for the administrative field, or for the judicial, of course, as much as my time, my experience and my position allows. So I, too, saw a variety of indictments from our prosecutions which would not have been confirmed by a graduate lawyer who graduated yesterday and who still doesn't know until he passed a judicial exam which is, in which way the indictment is confirmed, what are the elements of the crime, etc., but of course it had a purpose at some point. Certain positions in institutions and authorities were to be removed. We witness it, we know it all. We also know today that there are cases that someone disagrees with certain attitudes, etc. how he is directly threatened by judicial institutions. And yet another, not to go too far, I can speak to you from the aspect of the work and the position I'm acting, that as a member of the College in the previous House meeting, and also now we have constant answers to the calls from the institutions of the judicial institutions that invite our envoys, MPs, to certain court hearings according to certain things that are strictly regulated by law, just for the purposes of the media and some other things. But if I don't go too far, I'm just going to say one more thing, you believe that we have in Parliament today, I can show you that, the decisions of the courts who made different decisions on one of those same cases. So I'm saying, everyone could use their own experiences, and what I'm saying is, maybe just add to all the other discussions that go in favor of it, that none of us may be happy with such things, and I'm saying this out of desire that indeed the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, if it is, or it will be called somehow otherwise, really be a body that will function with one purpose, to establish an independent, impartial, effective, apolitical, professional judiciary which is not the case today. But let me not forget to say because this is sometimes said here, as well as everywhere in these institutions there are very valuable, professional and 40 responsible people, individuals who certainly try to do their job in the best possible way. I think that too deserves to be said here in addition to the great dissatisfactions we have heard in terms of the functioning and establishment of this independent High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, as well as the very functioning and ineffectiveness of the work of the judiciary. I will also, perhaps, remind, here, and over the past ten years all of what a number of colleagues here have said, so many reforms have been implemented and new laws have been passed in all areas, meaning procedurally-law, materially-law, organisationally and all of these reforms have meant, in some way even the transfer of jurisdiction from the level of entity, here, in terms of establishing a High Court and Prosecutorial Council, not to say what his task was. No one disputes, meaning that these institutions must be independent, and that together with other law enforcement agencies, especially police, they should guarantee the fight against all types of crime, particularly organised crime and corruption. The violation of the right to a fair trial, unfortunately, is part of the systematic shortcomings in the organisation of the judiciary and effectively exercise jurisdiction from that area, but for a reminder, as has been said, of all these laws, and of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, and of the Court of Justice, and of the Prosecutor's Office, has created the International Community, but have passed a regular procedure within this House even though it is said here, the BiH Constitution does not know the judiciary at the state level. So, the International Community had a direct impact on not only concrete legal solutions because, don't forget, here in these homes we adopted on principle take or leave, without any changes, but also had an impact on the human resources solutions in the appointment of certain positions in judicial institutions. So far, we've heard that we've talked about reports, I wouldn't mention it, it's never produced any result, because the regular reports we're getting from the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, I remember well, whoever reads them carefully, you'll see that the same scenario is made, sometimes they forget to change the year they refer to, and sometimes they're left with paragraphs from one last convening, the exact same, maybe adjusted something statistical, in terms of some work. So, here, I wouldn't talk about it, but today when we have a situation that, you've seen through the debate we've heard here, and through the media, that certain ministers and who aren't the area, irrelevantly, or advocates, know a lot of things in the judiciary in some very unusual way, then we all have to at least figure out that the judiciary is in trouble and that really some things have to start from a dead spot, but not really in this way. When I heard today through this debate while I'm sitting here, everyone's racing, and we're all up for one thing, that something needs to change. How is it possible that this House in such a unique matter cannot come to a unique conclusion as to what needs to be done when it comes to changes in organisational and any other sense so that Bosnia and Herzegovina can be a rule of law on the basis of justice and how would it be governed by the rule of law? So I would add here only a segment of the institution's dysfunction, especially the fact that we don't have democratic oversight of the intelligence and security sector, and then we should in particular ask ourselves why we are solving these problems, why might this problem have happened, and is this how we should deal with these problems in this way? The way these processes were created and conducted also speaks of the fact that the BiH Constitutional Court has accepted almost all my allegations, which I have referred to at the request of appeals under the Law on Criminal Procedure and under the Law on the Information and Security Agency, however, I will remind you, when I speak here, through which laws were conducted directly in violation of fundamental human rights. It all cost the state, but the bottom line is that it's precisely the basis of these laws that's been used to abuse the judiciary and it's being done by individuals who are now speakers of certain things how we may or may entertain the public in this way or how it's a lot to the citizens. I remind you, in the last session, we were looking for a proposal from the Council of Ministers, on the Ministers' proposals, to implement those decisions so that this would not happen. You know where they're stopped? In this house. 41 So I ask individually, no matter what the new council is, what has changed in certain policies? Why are we talking today, and why until yesterday we have not implemented the laws in just one way that the Constitutional Court of BiH has said so to obtain an effective judiciary and judiciary that would not allow any abuse or violation of the fundamental human rights of any of the individuals? I'm saying all of this for one purpose, I'm going to support everything that contributes to establishing an independent, efficient, professional and apolitical judiciary, but everything that we're all going to stand behind, if we're talking about one goal, and that's the rule of law, and it's not the way that we're pleading today through this debate, I don't know, a hundred of some demands here, over there, and ultimately they're almost the same or similar. We're not going to get the results, and I'm afraid we're going to send another message, that this particular debate has served someone to distract themselves from the right path. Thank you very much, I hope that in no way have I caused any misunderstanding or any other debate that would lead in any direction, but indeed once again I look back and welcome everything that has been within this House as a contribution to the debate in terms of the functioning of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a rule of law before which all people will be equal before the law. Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4186	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I can't agree that nothing can be done. These conclusions are very well-conceived, however, in order not to remain in this debate and in these conclusions, I have also proposed for this reason the establishment of an investigative commission and an investigative committee are currently serving when we have a problem like this to address this problem deeply, to explore all the details of this problem and to take certain steps, and given that we have adopted the Law on Parliamentary Oversight, it is not only the Rules of Procedure at our disposal, but indeed the robust legislative measures that we as Parliament have, and thus the parliamentary body that we are establishing today, if we so decide, will have at our disposal. I'm just taking this opportunity, not to report back later, but we have a proposal from my colleague Borenović to hold the vote after the debate ends individually. I remind you that we have more precedents, after all, on excise duties we have pleaded after the end of the debate on the laws concerning the adoption of excise duties, so that, uh, I think the request is justified and should be put to the vote, and then, if adopted, all the conclusions relating to this item of the agenda before moving to item 2 of the agenda should be made known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4187	I'd like to thank the representative. Representative Predrag Kožul, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4188	Well, here I am about to quote Article 82(2) of the Rules of Procedure which, I don't have to quote, you all have it, which clearly states that the proposal of my colleague Borenović is not in line with this Article, Article 42 and Article 2 respectively. The Rules of Procedure and that's very clear. I didn't answer to read the Rules of Procedure only, which is very clear, but to point out what I've already said several times, that this point, right here, and in this way, is going to put in another way this 2nd point of the agenda which I would say is more urgent, even more important. So we're going to vote so that potentially some MPs leave this House and don't participate in the second item of the agenda. I'm sorry, I guess it doesn't have to be like that, but... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4189	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4190	So, Article 187 is very clear, that the House may regulate a question by way of a conclusion, but I remind you, so, on several occasions, this House decided to vote on, to vote on individual points of the agenda before the debate on the whole agenda ended, and one of these conclusions we adopted, did, when there was a statement on excises and Mr. Kožul was I think then with two hands voted for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4191	Thank you. Representative Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4192	You've just told your colleagues the chairman, you said in your statement that we shouldn't stand up for individual cases. It is the individual cases that constitute a collection of the unhappiness or miswork of judges, prosecutors, members of the VSTV. Certainly one individual case is very interesting, and that is that the papers from one high official from court to court have disappeared, and so the trial is completed. Now I'm asking you directly, there's a prosecutor in the Middle Bosnian Canton, from Travnik, who's a first-class girl, second, high school texting, calling her for sex. My parents come, I look at it myself, my parents come, they show it. As a state representative, I don't know what to tell these people, the only thing that's normal is for them to go, report, to the police, etc. People can't, he still works there and by stories, it seems to me that Islamović is called, behind him is his, his protectors are members of a powerful party there. And now, look, I as a state representative don't know how to help a man. Here, I ask the public and Mr. Tegelti, I don't even know who the president of the court is now, the prosecutor in charge, here I invite them to come and question it. So, how are your poor parents gonna, uh, tell you, and what would you do if it happened to your kid? And these individual cases are right, that's what's been offering us because a series of individual cases, so they can't all be expensive cases, so that's just such a theme that it's all separate. And this today, he said, I don't know, one of my colleagues, that we should have responded immediately, the next day an emergency session to be just that a man sat in a pub talking about this topic with someone he shouldn't have sat down with and individual cases and had led to a situation like this. Thank you very much. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4193	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion or corrections. We have a situation that certain MPs have asked us to vote. I would still stay here because Mr. Damir Arnaut was talking about an article that speaks when we do not have a clearly defined question in the Rules of Procedure, then the conclusion may be. I do not have members of the College here in order to agree on certain matters, I have a clear Rules of Procedure which says that Article 87(2) of the House will first discuss at each session after setting the agenda on all issues which are on the agenda, and after the debate on all points, they will hold a vote on the material according to the order of the adopted points in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here, I'd stick to it too, at this point I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate and giving it an hour's break for lunch. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we can move on. Now, since we've exhausted the first item of the agenda, we've had Mr. Arnaut's business order here, I don't see it. Let's move on, let's get to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Information from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers on the control and management of the inflow of mass number of migrants and refugees in Bosnia and Herzegovina, referring to the current security and humanitarian situation in the area of UN-San canton
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4196	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues on this agenda point, just a moment if you'll allow me, here's first of all to introduce you to some statistical indicators, let me put it this way, with today. In Bosnia and Herzegovina it is registered, so until 24.06. - 10,595 illegal migrants, of which 9,919 showed their intention for asylum, and only 196 submitted an application after that for asylum and to say immediately did not appear during the procedure, the assumption was that they had left Bosnia and Herzegovina and therefore, in conclusion, to say so, suspends the asylum procedure. Based on reading from other countries, first of all from the Republic of Croatia we 44 accepted 324 persons, and also on the basis of the reading of other countries, mostly to the Republic of Serbia we also handed over the same number of 324 foreign nationals. I wouldn't introduce you to how many migrants are in every reception center, that's just one statistic, and you've seen here, I think there's some 23,000 illegal migrants registered in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2018. If we take that for the first six months, here's something more than 10,000 migrants, and if we assume it is, continue this dynamic we don't think there's going to be an increase in the number of migrants compared to last year, even the question is questionable whether there's going to be a number from last year, which can be determined, so there's not some drastic increase in migrants as sometimes it was trying to create a perception that there's been an enormous increase, so the baratalo, I don't know, with 200, 300 percent etc. etc. What's essentially in line with these indicators doesn't speak for it. I would only say that these migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina come from the EU direction, so from Bulgaria, Greece, one route across Serbia to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the second route from Greece via Albania, Montenegro to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that somewhere in the past year, I think a total of about 15,000 migrants have been turned away and about 15,000 migrants have been prevented from entering Bosnia and Herzegovina, and somewhere according to these estimates and indicators, about that level, and as far as this year is concerned. So the key problem with these migrations is that, as well as solving these migrations, it would be to prevent, on the one hand, as much as possible from the eastern border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, those migrants from entering, even though you have refused entry when you return these migrants, a group, one etc. We have a situation to return seven, eight, nine, and even ten times a migrant, and in some option, he probably manages to enter Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the other thing is, after their entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina, their humanitarian treatment here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let me just say that as far as the eastern border of Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, we have tried and brought in an emergency action plan, adopted by the Council of Ministers, primarily focusing on strengthening that part of the border where they enter and that there is a key problem of human resources, above all, the failure of the Border Police. More than 1/5 Border Police are unfulfilled and inaccessible with certain financial resources, so BiH Border Police are technically better equipped to fight better, or to better protect our border. However, we had no understanding of the code, so to speak, neither at 2018 when budgeting, it was passed on to this year based on temporary funding to increase the funding to the Border Police, above all to fill in over 500 police officers, nor did we get a single mark for technical equipment of the Border Police to prevent illegal migration. The other thing, these migrants, when they enter Bosnia and Herzegovina, is their only goal and desire to transit through Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible and move on to Western Europe. That's why they made, to put it this way, some kind of natural legality that after entering Bosnia and Herzegovina they go further towards the western part of the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and most of the route moves towards the UN-San canton, is that where they are closest, to say, once they enter the Republic of Croatia to enter the Schengen area, i.e. to enter Slovenia and then they are practically in the EU space. Of the 23,000 migrants who entered Bosnia and Herzegovina last year somewhere, so let me put it this way, nearly 20,000 of them came out of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means they're transiting, they have no intention of being held back. And if we take these ten-and-a-half thousand for this year somewhere four thousand, if we now estimate them within Bosnia and Herzegovina, four to five thousand, which means over 50% came out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 45 That I do not take up much of your time, I say we are faced with a difficult material, financial situation, there is no additional resources to address this issue and these problems at all, and unfortunately other than the Ministry of Security, no one is more than the state institutions, from the entity, or the lower level institution, to address this issue and this problem, so not only has the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders been burned in order to prevent entry, but also the humanitarian treatment of these migrants. We care about their clothes and their diet and their health care, etc. etc. Of course, with the help of certain partners, primarily the Red Cross of BiH, some humanitarian organisations, and this is how we solve this problem, and I say once again, it is absolutely not the role of the Ministry of Security. The only way we get in financial terms is the EU, we received special funds from the EU last year, and this year all the funds allocated to Bosnia and Herzegovina are charged with the burden of IPA funds, or withdrawing from the total amount of IPA funds, which means if you take 10 million and give to solve this humanitarian problem, then other projects financed from IPA projects will be reduced. I am to you, here in this Information you have and a certain kind of review of the spending of funds by international organisations, these are just financial resources which, I say, are burdened at the expense of Bosnia and Herzegovina, some of the special funds that they receive as their own foundations we do not have that data, nor can we decide on the spending of these funds and there is that review. What can I tell you when it comes to, here's to saying, Un-San canton. It really was, and now there's still one complex and security problem because however you try to build some centers inside Bosnia and Herzegovina we can't even provide the capacity to fill these reception centers up to 50% And you've actually got a lot of overcrowding in the Un-San canton. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And here's because I'm limited in time to say that the presidency has repeatedly asked us for information on the emergency measures we propose to prevent the entry of these migrants. We have proposed several variants, among other things one of the variants is that we hire the Armed Forces of BiH, so that the military will be unarmed and would exclusively work under the jurisdiction of the Border Police and would only engage in the prevention of illegal migration. The second proposal was to block the wire in suitable places. The third proposal was that other police agencies other than state agencies and Republika Srpska's MUP could help protect this border, but there is no agreement in the presidency on this and I can tell you that none of these measures have passed. And we... the fact that we don't have financial resources doesn't even get funding for the border police staffing, we don't have five, six and ten alternatives for technical equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4197	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Dedić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4198	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you all for supporting today's session and supporting the agenda for the migrant crisis in our country. Obviously, over two years we have a problem that is not being solved in the best way so that every day is becoming more and more difficult for the citizens of Bihac, Great 46 Kladude, the Unzo-San canton that definitely bear the greatest burden of the migrant crisis. Weak functioning of our institutions, poor coordination of different levels of government has led to a humanitarian, economic and social problem as well as a political problem today. Politically because in the area of another entity, the government of the entity does not want migrants and everything it does so that these migrants are transferred to the Federation area as soon as possible in transit, i.e. To the area of the Un-San canton. These days we have witnessed constantly in the media that we have had a theme of the migrant crisis and different levels of government have held their thematic sessions, above all the City Council of Bihac, Assembly of the Unsanican Canton, Parliament of the Federation and here we are today and we are holding our session thematically, i.e. on the agenda as we defined it and with a review of the Unsko-San canton. I'll just say that out of the 18 conclusions of the City Council, the 9 conclusions apply to the state level, i.e. to state, to the Council of Ministers, ministries and state bodies and institutions. When it comes to the thematic session of the Canton Assembly of 15 conclusions, 7 conclusions also refer to several levels of government, i.e. First of all, at the state level and the House of Representatives meeting of the Federation Parliament, we also adopted 5 conclusions of which 3 of the conclusions relate most directly to the state level. In most cases, some of the findings are similar, mainly with regard to the adoption of a management strategy for the migrant crisis, which would evenly deploy the burden within BiH and reduce direct pressure on Bihac and on the UN-San canton. Then strengthening the border police, more engagement in the protection of the state border. The foreign ministry's request to react to the institutions of the Republic of Croatia since migrants in their territory are returning to the UN-San canton area in an undefined manner. In addition, the Ministry of Security is asked to manage migrant centres. The Federation's Parliament is of 5 conclusions, out of two conclusions which, behold, Minister Mektić himself said, lack and financial resources, we have provided from the federal budget of 4 million converting marks to help healthcare institutions to help establish a better security situation in the Canton area. Among other things, the Council of Ministers is asked to amend the Foreign Law on the restriction of the number of persons who may seek asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition, the Canton Assembly also reached its conclusions at yesterday's session, among other things, to launch activities on changes and laws, but to generally, what Minister Mektić said, provide the financial resources for which I had the opportunity to watch a memo sent by Vigemark to our council of ministers, offering financial resources but also to the Council of Ministers as an institution to take over the management of the migrant crisis, i.e. that this strategy that we bring and all that follows is to be applied. My colleague jasmin Emrić also proposed seven conclusions today, and he and I are here from the area of this election unit of the UN-San Canton for which we are here to seek the support of the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. You're here today. And I won't talk much now, we can talk a lot, take the time when it comes to discussions, I will propose a conclusion on this item of the agenda that reads: That the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives supports the conclusions adopted at the the thematic sessions of the Bihac City Council, the UN-Sancant Assembly and the Federation of BiH's House of Representatives on the migrant crisis, and tasks the Council of Ministers and other state bodies and institutions to approach the implementation of them, and on measures taken within 30 days of delivering information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. And I would ask that these conclusions and our discussions that what we bring and what we finally follow and realize, because then there will be no point in proposing conclusions. Today we had examples that from 2017 we have conclusions on previous points that have not been realized, so 47 that this point of the agenda I would like to ask you to support these conclusions, people and institutions from the field and hope that in the next period we will react more quickly on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4199	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4200	Thank you. Here I would just like to say some of my impressions that this debate would be more complete, and he should be next said. One who hasn't been to the City of Bihac in the last month, for a month and a half, in Velika Kladusa, the UN-San canton cannot have the sense of a migrant crisis that is so visible in this northwestern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I understand this information from the Council of Ministers that it's set up like this, because obviously they don't understand this problem, they don't see it, they don't feel it, and this Information is a shrub, it doesn't give the essence, and it doesn't even have complete information that surprises me, because we have competent institutions that have to have up-to-date information about the migrant crisis and the migrant situation. That is why I call on the Council of Ministers to come to the UN-San canton by Friday and hold an emergency or emergency Council of Ministers meeting on the issue of the migrant crisis, there is no excuse for no money for the migrant crisis. We need to find funding, if the problem is in financial resources, but it's not a problem because we don't know about the migrant crisis since yesterday, the migration crisis was both known in 2012 and 2013 and 2015 and 2016. In 2016, the Council of Ministers adopted a Strategy on Migration and Asylum and an Action Plan for 2016-2020 and a specific competent body that will coordinate all migration affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina and all agencies are involved in the Coordination and Operational Headquarters, all agencies are involved in the Operational Headquarters, and then it happens that we do not have all the information in this Information, i.e. there is no information at all for the UN-San canton. There is no record that there are temporary reception centres and Miral and Bira and Sedra and Borici and that it is a very difficult and uncertain situation and a high-risk security situation and a high-risk health- epidemiological situation that apparently is under-understanded by competent institutions. Because if they did, they wouldn't have a situation like this in the Unsaan Canton. No matter how much we know that migrants have a tendency and are heading towards the EU border in this northwestern part of BiH, we must create a system that will control the movement of migrants. It cannot happen that no police agency, no body has carried out any action at the Sarajevo Railway Station and has prevented such a massive arrival of migrants in the UN-San canton. Thousands of migrants, illegal migrants, are legally coming to the Unsko-San canton. If we're going to help the security and health- epidemiology situation in the U.S. canton, then we need to act urgently today and interrupt this route, because the situation, as I said, is a high risk. I don't dramatize this, maybe more emotionally than we should, but the situation is very serious and I want it to be understood that way. For example, the U.P.P.D. of the UN-Sancanton Police Department in the period 01.01.2019 until 19.06.2019, 17.021 migrants were legitimateized in the UN-San canton, and you can see from this information how serious this is. In the period 01.01 to 19.06.2019, 9,833 migrants arrived in the area of the Unsko-San canton of Talgo by train. During this reporting period, police officers of the Police Department of the UN-San-San Canton recorded 147 crimes committed by 48 migrants. Then, recorded 84 cases of public order and peace violations, 145 of all types of violations, that I am not delaying too much and also recorded 483 other events or incident situations. In the Un-San canton at these temporary reception centers, mass fights, attempted murder, murder, fires, all that could have happened was, and unfortunately the competent agencies didn't respond in time, because if they had, they wouldn't have had such a chaotic and very difficult and humanitarian issue in the Un-San canton. I have to say here I'm surprised that there's no record that other police agencies have recorded any criminal or criminal activity during this reporting period – did they do anything, did they have any such data? There's a U-San canton in the M.P. Does Canton have Sarajevo? So Sarajevo migrants come to Bihac, illegal migrants come legally to Bihac from Sarajevo, and that's where they should be controlled. We must share the burden of the migrant crisis if we wish well to this northwestern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, above all, because the situation is currently burning in that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I said, we have a strategy, we have action plans, we have competent agencies – what should we do? All we have to do is work, just work in accordance with the Foreign Law and the Asylum Act, nothing else. Apply the law to all senior representatives of agencies in the Coordination Body for Migration Affairs and at the Operational Headquarters for Migration, you must do your part of the job. Well, it can't be in the Information that, for example, here. in one of the conclusions of the coordination meeting, i.e. the 32nd meeting of the Coordination Body and the Operational Staff, says – in case of overload of the Centre for Migrants Usivak. Well, I can't come to my senses that he's not already overloaded, and we're suffocating in the Un-San canton. So we'll let everything come to the Unsaniscan canton. Well, it can't be, it's not a system of control and migration management in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's not a strategy that doesn't prescribe action plans. There is a strategic objective of 4 which clearly states what to do when it comes to illegal migration, and I have also proposed conclusions. Since the time is at an end, here I propose the following conclusions: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Ministry of Security, the Co-ordination Body for Migration Affairs and the Operational Staff for Migration Affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina to urgently engage all available police forces in keeping the eastern border of Bosnia and Herzegovina from illegal border crossings of migrants, as well as permanent control of the movement of migrants on the eastern border route, the border with the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro – the northwestern border, the border with the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to reduce the inflow of migrants in the area of the UN-Sancanton region. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Ministry of Security, the Co-ordination Body for Migration Affairs and the Operational Headquarters for Migration Affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina to, in line with the strategic objective 4. – to improve the fight against illegal migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Strategy in the area of migration and asylum and the Action Plan for the period 2016-2020 urgently implements an amendment to the planned measure under point 4.7 in such a way as to include the construction of temporary character migration centres along the active migration route of the eastern border, the border with the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro – the northwestern border, the border with the Republic of Croatia and Herzegovina for a level playing field across the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the parity in the number of accepted migrants in the same. Without this measure, we cannot manage migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 49 3. It is the responsibility of the BiH Ministry of Security, the Co-ordination Body for Migration Affairs and the Operational Staff for Migration Affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina to, in accordance with the above-mentioned amendment, develop an action plan for implementation with the urgent deadlines for implementation, and to urgently access the same measures to prevent further deterioration of the humanitarian, security and health epidemiological situation in the area of the UN-Sancanton because of the mass inflow of illegal migrants. 4. The BiH Ministry of Security is in charge, this is the conclusion 4th Coordination Body for Migration Affairs and Operational Staff on Migration Affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina that, due to the duration of the crisis situation in the area of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Strategy for Migration and Asylum is revised with special focus on the implementation of all planned activities of the strategic objective 4. – improve the fight against illegal migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the 2016-2020 Action Plan and make all deadlines with the necessary urgency to execute. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 5. The Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Security of BiH, the Co-ordination Body for Migration Affairs and the Operational Headquarters for Migration Affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina is tasked with acting urgently because of the long-term crisis situation in the UN-San canton, by means of a massive inflow of illegal migrants, and by making full and timely implementation of the Law on Asylum and the Law on Foreigners necessary financial resources, to strengthen human and material-technical offices of competent agencies and bodies, and in particular the Service for Foreign Affairs, the Bihac Field Centre, in order to mitigate the security and health- epidemiological situation and keep under control. Six. The BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Ministry of Security is tasked to collect everything through the competent authorities, agencies and bodies evidence and cases of infringement of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the surrender and acceptance of persons who remain against the law and in the follow-up of the Readmission Agreement, by the Border Police of the Republic of Croatia [[the speaker is warned on time]] and to refer a protest note to the competent institutions of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the facts identified in order to minimise the number of incidents of infringements of the Readmission Agreement and 7. To be in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to ask the International Organisation for Migration for a financial report on the spending of the first four months 2019 from the IPA budget of the project titled – Special measures to support the response to the refugee and migrant situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the financial report should include the spending of financial resources by IOM, UNHCR and UNICEF in synthetic and analytical terms, and explain in detail the expenditure of each individual item in the domestic currency, i.e. the conversion marks. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The Council of Ministers undertakes to provide financial services delivers to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly a representative home for insight and information. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4201	Thank you. 50 I ask all MPs and MPs to adhere to the Rules of Procedure, especially when they take time to make proposals, and we will read them when they vote, and you know that you can deliver them in writing and that you are practically bound to do so. Representative Dženan Đonlagić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4202	I thank the chairman. So when we talk about the migrant crisis, there is no longer any dilemma that the events and activities of migrants, above all, in the space of the UN-Sancanton, but in other areas of the country, have become a question that can't really be kept quiet anymore. With this in mind, I would like to point out or remind us once more that a BiH presidency member, Mr Željko Komšić, has also requested the maintenance of an emergency session of the BiH presidency due to an alarming, particularly security situation in Bihac. BiH Presidency Chairman Milorad Dodik has actually shown by his vote at the Bureau's session that he does not want to address the migrant crisis. Let us remind ourselves that it was Milorad Dodik who first proposed the implementation of the BiH Armed Forces in May 2018. He asked, paraphrasing, which is why the Army exists, what they do if they can't get to the border and stuff. Let us also remind ourselves that it is about persons, and this has already been pointed out here several times, which have entered Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory in large numbers, and who are now actually making a direct attack on the state of security of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the possibility of escalating such a situation to extremely unwanted proportions. The BiH presidency session prepared a decision containing the BiH presidency ordering the BiH Defence Minister at the BiH Council to order the use and deployment of military-police, engineering, reconnaissance, as well as other BiH Armed Forces units. What I particularly want to stress, to support and assist BiH Border Police patrols in controlling the BiH border, primarily with Serbia-Montenegro, to prevent illegal crossings of the state border. According to this proposal, the use and deployment of the BiH Armed Forces unit does not entail the use of weapons and weapons. Unfortunately, such a proposal for a decision did not go to an extraordinary session of the BiH presidency, which meant a consensus of all three members of the presidency for a positive outcome. I said that Milorad Dodik, acting as chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina, did not support such a proposal for a decision, and unfortunately, as we have heard and analyzed from Resolute Minister Mektić, it is very difficult to solve this problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina unless it is resolved, or unless the causes of the migrant crisis are put under control, which is actually the limit. So, the permeability of the border and preventing illegal crossings of the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina, until the issue is resolved, will be very difficult to manage this problem that is evident in Bosnia and Herzegovina. With this in mind, we, as a Club of MPs, have proposed one conclusion, to try once again to highlight or encourage competent institutions to take all necessary measures and engage all available capacities within their competences, of course including the engagement of the Armed Forces of BiH in a human way and without the use of force and weapons, and all in order to address the migrant crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4203	Thank you. Representative Nermin Nikšić, debate. Here you go, counsel. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4204	I thank the chairman. So Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens face the consequences of a major crisis caused by daily increases in the number of migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who again come to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that we do not now count from all countries. It is obvious that Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state cannot solve this problem, the problem of those people who have not solved either the governments of their countries, but who obviously cannot solve the governments of much larger and stronger European and world powers. I would say that all the burden of the migration crisis has fallen on the Un-San canton, especially the City of Bihać, and lately the problems have become increasingly escalating in the Tuzla canton area. I believe that the policy of easing the Council of Ministers, including the Presidency before Milorad Dodik, has contributed that the state does not use all the instruments at its disposal to evenly deploy the burden of the migrant crisis to both entities. Let's remind ourselves that the HNK's commissioner made some kind of coup when he brought the migrants back from the Canton border for which he had no consequences. At the same time, our state institutions capitulated in front of Croatia and Serbia who illegally return migrants to Bosnia and Herzegovina every day even when they have not entered the countries from Bosnia and Herzegovina, while our competent institutions do not observe it. The enormous mud of migrants has threatened the rights of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the rights of the migrants themselves. It is clear to everyone and they do not hide it themselves, that they do not want, therefore, migrants do not hide that they do not want to stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why I believe that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because of what we have not long ago, in the early 1990s, the past would have to show much more compassion for the suffering and horrors of most of these people. It would be very important to systematically address this problem, and it is clear that state institutions have withdrawn and the problem has left itself to the UN-Sancanton, its local communities. I find such behavior irresponsible and inadmissible. It is clear to us that migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina are bringing organised crime, that they are brought by smugglers dealing with human trafficking and illegal border crossings looking for a way to earn money on the suffering of these people. So, working as a limited criminal group, they are rich in human trafficking, while the consequences of this crime feel unfortunately late, when they already come to a destination they didn't want to, but also the citizens of bh. cities that are increasingly suffering the consequences. That is why I want to point out how I expect and ask the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Office for Foreign Affairs, the Border Police and other police authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to find them, because unfortunately there are such employees in their institutions who are unconsciously carrying out their duties, and then collect evidence of trafficking in human beings and smugglers, discover them and prevent them from committing criminal acts and prosecute. I also expect and demand that the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection and other competent state institutions suspend the illegal entry of migrants into Bosnia and Herzegovina and urgently prosecute all perpetrators and accomplices in committing criminal acts of migrant smuggling. I ask that all competent authorities at the state level be involved in finding accommodations for migrants in migrant centres, providing them with stay, food, health care, but also to engage in identifying the exact identity of migrants, detecting passports and other identification documents they are hiding. In this part, I particularly call on the representatives of the International Community not to have to falsely, and to include and assist our state institutions, especially cantonal and local authorities. I repeat, migrants do not want to stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina but it is completely hypocritical of those who have closed the borders of the European Union to hold talks between Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus show some false concern for migrants. In the end, I believe that all competent institutions have to engage so that those who have become rich in another's accident, those who have become rich in 52 human trafficking, will be left without profit, that is to say, to be taken away from them. Only effective handling of the authorities can prevent smugglers from bringing a large number of people to a crisis that, for example, has become intolerable in the UN-San canton to the point where the citizens of this canton are now leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4205	Thank you. She's a representative of Edita Đapo, a debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4206	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Well, here's a lot of things being said, and as someone said, about migrants and the migrant crisis, we could talk for a long time, given that this is all about us, and that we know that, whether the Council of Ministers did not bring that strategy to the management of migrants and did not establish good coordination with lower levels of government, so that the burden of the migrant crisis was transferred to the Un-San canton. I will be a little related to Mr Nikšić's discussion on human trafficking and on the IOM report, or the International Organisation for Migrants, it is estimated that about 40m euros, based on talks with migrants and interviews with these migrants, have been estimated to cost around 1,500 euros in transfer through Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have asked the Court of Justice of BiH and I thank the president for his reply and, behold, I can see that there is an increase in the number of cases prosecuted when it comes to migrants. In 2017 it was four people with only 10 months, this year it was four people but three years and over, and only in '19. The year has already condemned two people to four years and nearly 8,000 marks. So, the problem of smuggling is something that, indeed, the Council of Ministers, or the Minister of Security, needs to be stopped. I therefore propose that the co-ordination body for migration, therefore, led by Minister Mektić, must establish better coordination with the task force to combat human trafficking and illegal migration in order to counter the increasingly better network, is it, which deals with human trafficking and trafficking. My second conclusion would be that the Council of Ministers must make additional efforts and must do absolutely everything in diplomatic terms in order to establish better ties with Frontex in order to protect borders, but also with Europol and Eurojust precisely because of this smuggling of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4207	Thank you. Representative Branislav Borenović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4208	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentarians. Here, I'm going to take a few minutes, some experience I've experienced as a Parliamentarian who spent two days in the Un-San canton, and it's completely different when you go to the scene and see what it looks like, than when you're watching TV, or you're listening or you're reading 53 news. This is really about a crisis that has its own, it's safe, both humanitarian and economic and security but also a health dimension, and nobody can deny it, and it's very important how and how we treat all these challenges when it comes to the migrant crisis. The reality is that, on the one hand, migrants are very simple to enter through, into Bosnia and Herzegovina through the border, and very difficult to get out of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the other side, which means that this is about the responsibility of the same people who run the institutions, who are in charge of guarding the border, control the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and should therefore be very careful and require that all institutions do their job responsibly. I fully agree that co-ordination of police structures, i.e. security institutions must be brought to a perfect level, literally every second, every minute must be known and that coordination must be brought to perfection. It is evident that all these people who, most of them, are tormented, are made to understand each other, although there are safe and interesting persons, and therefore it is important to be very careful. Most of them want to get to point B as soon as possible and get to that game, as they call it, and try to cross the border and enter the European Union and go further towards other countries of the European Union and that is their goal. And that's their goal, believe me, there's no help in offering them a hundred other locations with a category and I don't know either, de Lux. They are interested exclusively, in talking to them I learned, to be as close as possible to the border where they will try to cross that magic line and be in the European Union and then through Slovenia to go further towards Austria, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, France, etc. Don't let us live in the illusions that if the migrant crisis is deployed, I don't know, centres all over Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am, my opinion is that it won't solve anything and that it's absolutely just a delusion for all of us. I think the most important thing here is that all institutions that have responsibility and have the authority to control, monitor, manage the migrant crisis how to put themselves in full drive. I know it's not easy for people who deal with this, that most of them are left alone, and that's what I saw in the Uno-San canton, that no matter how far from Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Mostar, these people are left alone, they need help. They really need help, not only financially, probably human, but certainly with people who are dressed enough to be able to handle these things. Incredibly, there are only a few people in the Foreign Service, indeed only a few people in the Foreign Service, indeed only a few people. It's amazing they're missing people at the border crossings, they're amazing they're missing police officers. On the other hand, we have a situation that when migrants enter, they spend a few hours or just one day, one night on parts of Republika Srpska and, of course, everyone sees that they get to the UN-San canton as soon as possible because it is the only route that is the land route for them, it allows them to enter the European Union. I think everything needs to be done that the Border Police, one, two, third, fourth, fifth, every police structure in coordination with key people from the Council of Ministers of BiH and all institutions and, of course, judicial institutions if it is possible to try to manage this crisis in a better or more concrete way. Financial assistance is necessary, but also there when we talk, we must be all aware of the fact that people living in Bihaq, who live in Kladhua, who live, I don't know, in Buzhi, in other cities in Unsko-San canton, are rightly in fear, nervous, frustrated, feeling like they're simply drowning in a situation where it's very difficult to control what can happen in the next month, two, three. And I understand and I supported then a completely human idea of moving the migrant centre from a location that is in town to a location that is a little further from the city but that is close enough to that game, as they call it, that simple line where they try to cross the border and go to the countries of the European Union where you will either prevent them or I don't know what to do. I think it is necessary to make an effort and see what locations are like 54 such as this Vučijak who is close enough to Bihać, that is, to the border, and is not in the city itself, and in some way dispensing the city from the needs of every citizen and resident of Bihać who wants to live with one life in which it is constantly under pressure whether a security problem can happen and what can happen to a huge number of people who come every day to Bihać. It's something that needs to be the result of support for everyone, and financial but also humane and on that side we're willing to give maximum support, but you believe it's not, I think you're living in error, that some of the solutions I see even from these conclusions are completely inconclusive, unreal. We need to know what is the current situation on the ground and what is happening and the better, the better to control the border, the more effective it is to close it in a way that it can't be done in a migrant crisis for speculative, human traffickers. I didn't see any case that someone had been detained, that he was locked up, that he was in jail, that there was a group, that a group of people had been sanctioned. These people go in, they pay, they cross the border perfectly normally, even faster than we have to show a passport or ID card. So it's an organized human trafficking, easy to get in, but they have an iron curtain here when it comes to getting out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now the question is, how is that possible? The same limit, on the one hand, is quite soft, soft, on the other hand, is what the iron is saying, you can't get out and there you need to see what's possible. I think it's important that we open this topic today, that we talk about it, and see what institutions, competent institutions, can do additionally when it comes to support both citizens and people who face these things on a daily basis. But believe me, now that you give them, here, don't get people to build a migrant center in downtown Sarajevo and in two hotels, it's not the solution. These are people who have fled from despair, most of them, from countries that are affected by certain crises and want to fly away as soon as possible, run through Bosnia and Herzegovina as a transit country and go somewhere, to some third countries where they will have better luck, and not to talk about a record that has to get up because there are plenty, quite safely interesting people who can make certain problems and probably have other reasons why they are either in transit or in Bosnia and Herzegovina itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4209	Thank you, counsel. I'll take the word for it now. Here, in the context of this information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the control and management of the inflow of mass numbers of migrants and refugees in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a reference to the current security and humanitarian situation in the area of the particularly Un-Sancan Canton or the City of Bihaq, we are discussing in one way and, in fact, here, after a certain number of debates are really seen, not only from the debates as to how important it is to say, important this issue of the migrant crisis, and perhaps in the best way here, individuals have actually shown themselves when you come to a certain place, when you live there, when you live there, and I have witnessed it every day, no matter where we come from, and I personally speak here and as someone who comes from these, that is my electoral unit, here, with the respect of two colleagues who are there, but I want to talk about it in another way that is working on the responsibility which is in the exclusive domain of Bosnia. The regrets and the fact that we in particular must stress that the institutions do not know, the city and the UN-Sancan canton are in fact violating legal provisions, but in some ways calling for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to try to resolve something. 55 Of course this is certainly a question that is here, as it has been said, and we all know well and should also be observed from the point of view of humanitarian but also security, health and any other problems. I would really say, here, I listened to the current representative, or the minister of security who also keeps me answering this question, which is, of course, in accordance with the powers and duties he has as head of the administration body at the end, not just as a minister, as part of the government, because he does not like to represent himself as a political person, although primarily, of course, it is just like everyone else and here is present. I would say and invite the institutions to do their part of the job, that the institutions of the Council of Ministers, of course, deal with everything in their domain, but primarily with law enforcement. Here, from the minister himself, the MPs heard, and we all know that these problems we have with migration are precisely the problems because they do not respect the country's own laws, the Law on Foreigners and the Asylum Act. All these other things that are trying to get rid of certain temporary measures, to form some commissions, etc., so it turns out, I don't know, that the Border Service needs a certain number, so it needs funding, etc. Is that a problem? I get the feeling that that's exactly the excuse when we don't want to do something we're going to form some commission, these are the ones who suggested something, we're going to have some answer today, and in the end, where you were, nowhere, what you did, nothing. He became a problem from day to day more and more complex. So I'm going to say again these conclusions that we're proposing here today, I mean what are these conclusions that can be more important and powerful than what we have today, which are laws? With all due respect, as we can accept the proposals, neither do I, the City Council of Bihac, and we must respond to the appeal of these people. Therefore, my call would be that the institutions of the Council of Ministers do their jobs in accordance with their responsibilities, and of course, given that we must not ignore the fact of the humanitarian nature of this problem and that it should be dealt with by the institutions, but in a manner that is necessary. The humanitarian character should be left behind, there are also institutions that do so in accordance with their jobs and powers. So personally I think it's good that we have conducted this debate, but unfortunately from this debate, I don't think there will be anything that will contribute unless the responsible institutions comply with the applicable law, and it's unfortunate that we call on someone and we have some conclusions, that someone commits to respecting the law, etc. That this issue is being politicized for a wide variety of reasons, and it's also talking about, I don't know, whether or not, how the director of the HNZ canton was acting, and, for example, suggestions on the construction of some temporary accommodation for migrants in the Vuciak village, etc. And we must approach this in one way to resolve Bosnia and Herzegovina and the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If there is also an appeal of a population such as Bihać and here it must be heard that there is also an appeal of the Croatian population living there, some other fact must be respected that it is also a ground that supplies water to the Bihac residents and should be taken into account, of course, both the geological position and all other segments for which I am not, and not half of us are invited to think about it and talk about it. So I hope and believe that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular the Council of Ministers, who are in charge of implementing the law, will do everything to ultimately comply with the law, and all other proposals on the issue of the migrant crisis, in one systematic and responsible way, in accordance with their powers, and then that will involve the solutions given, and some sort of solution to the problems we face today, first of all, I don't know here and from the aspect of health, and from safety, and any other risks, because let's not ignore it, it's not a small problem, and we are all responsible for this. We're not gonna get washed up if it comes out nice in front of the pay phone and says, "I need it," this one did it, etc. Let's make a concrete move, let's respect, let's see, let's ask in the situation of the present already, we know that we have, I don't know, an illegal number, why in certain cases didn't it act in accordance with the Law on Foreigners, why not with the Law on Asylum? Until we answer such things and say who 56 is responsible, none of this story here in this House. Of course she's the problem, and I'm going to do it again, and she's saddening to have certain local communities, etc. They must fight themselves in a way that violates the fact that it is not, of course, their only problem, but the problem and the institutions of the state, and apparently the state shows weakness, and we should all ask ourselves where this is leading us, not only in terms of the migrant crisis, let's not forget, we have just talked about an important topic concerning the mirrors of the state and the functioning of it as a rule of law, so let's remind ourselves of some other things, so let's ask ourselves, is this how we contribute to its survival and its European path and its future to all three constituent peoples and all the citizens who live in it? Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports, I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Please, as long as it takes to vote, will you...? _________(?) Half an hour. Half an hour. Half an hour and I'll see you at the vote. Five o'clock, so I'll see you at the vote. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4224	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4225	You're looking for an individual?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4226	Yeah, about every conclusion... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4227	Please, you should have asked for this at the beginning of the proposal, because we are voting on all the conclusions in the package and on yours. Please, let us be clear about the conclusion package.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4228	Each conclusion has the number of the chairman... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4229	Yes, there is, we vote. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion. [[Common discussion]] No, no, no, please, we are voting on the proposal for Jasmin Emrić's conclusion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4239	First. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4240	First, first conclusion, individually. Of the 28 present – for 22, there are no, 6 abstentions. I understand that the conclusion of 1st Representative Jasmin Emrić received the necessary majority. We declare the proposal for a conclusion number 2. Of the 28 present – for 21, no objection, abstention 7. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we have adopted the proposal for a conclusion of 2nd Representative Jasmin Emrić. And now I ask you to make a statement, that is, to the knowledge of the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, because this was the basis for our debate at today's session. So please plead. Of the 28 present – no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that we have no general majority and have not received any information from the Council of Ministers. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And it's no problem, please repeat the vote. _________(?) This is for the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4253	technical correction of the conclusions, pv three conclusions technical correction,.... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4254	Is it the same number of conclusions, it's just? [[Disable microphone]] Please, according to the service records, the text is different and was delivered when we started voting. So please let us be clear about the proposal for conclusions that we have received, which came from the debate. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4256	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4257	Please make a statement. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah. Of the 28 present – for 19, no objection, abstentions 9. There is a general but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity, a subsequent reconciliation. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of representatives Dženan Đonlagić, Vlatko Glavaš and Zlatan Begić. Should I read the proposal for a conclusion? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4260	You don't need to read, only if I can... Conclusions 3 and 4, so I'm pulling out, they're only staying 1st, 2nd and 5th. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4261	1st, 2nd and 5th, please submit a proposal for a conclusion of 3rd and 4th is withdrawn by the applicant. So, we propose the conclusion of MP Nermin Nikšić with the material delivered on 1st, 3rd and 5th. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4262	1st, 2nd and 5th.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-26-0.u4263	1st, 2nd and 5th pardon 1st, 2nd and 5th. Of the 28 present – for 22, there are no abstentions 6. There is a general but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity, afterwards [[Common discussion]] Please let us vote again. Of the 28 present – for 22, there are no abstentions 6. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted the proposal for the conclusion of MP Nermin Nikšić, according to the proposal submitted according to the material, these are the conclusions of 1st, 2nd and 5th. Now we're voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Councilwoman Edita Đapo. Should I read the conclusions? _________(?) You don't have to.
