ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4544	I suggest we go. Dear and distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, media representatives, I am opening the 3rd emergency session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Once again, I warmly welcome all present representatives and distinguished guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] At this point, or until now, the only excuse for his absence was for the representative Enver Bijedić for his earlier commitments, so here according to the service data - how much do we currently have?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4545	28 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4546	Right now, 28,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4547	38. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4548	We currently have 38 MPs, which means I can determine that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. The members of the meeting shall be appointed in accordance with Article 27 (1) point (b) and Article 68. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives at the request of the following representatives: Mirko Šarović, Dragan Mektić, Branislav Borenović, Mira Pekić, Damir Arnaut, jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić, Aida Baručija, Predrag Kojović, Nermin Nikšić, Zukan Helez, Mirsad Kukić, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina, Enver Bijedić, Dženan Đonlagić, Vlatko Glavaš and Zlatan Begić. The request states that an emergency session of the House is to be called with one item of the agenda, which is the Agenda 1. Proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. 2 An emergency session request was submitted on 18 November 2019, and that request was submitted to you in clubs. So, the 3rd emergency session of the House of Representatives was called in accordance with Article 68. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives with one item of the agenda, as indicated in the memo. So, as a rule, I don't insist on it, but the agenda rule of this kind of session is not a debate, but it's going to be on the agenda, of course, I don't insist on it, it's possible to open a debate on the agenda, but here's a way to find out that today's 3rd emergency session of the House of Representatives has that agenda that's been indicated to you in the invitation, if all present and respected MPs agree. We have a report for discussion, distinguished representative Zukan Helez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4549	Dear Chairman, co-chair, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking for a five-minute recess, because I have a proposal to supplement the agenda under Rule 71 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, we do not have to leave the room just to share that the honourable deputies know what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4550	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4551	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4552	You can also expose her to hear, and in writing...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4553	When they get, when they get that they can all follow, and here's five minutes if it's not a problem, I'm right.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4554	All right, we'll wait for it to split, don't we in practice to take a break while the agenda is under discussion? /distribution of materials to supplement the agenda/ Well, we got a proposal to supplement the agenda by the distinguished representative Helez, he was divided, but I already said that the character of such sessions practically does not predict the additions of the agenda and I am indeed, to say, kindly and cordially asked all the distinguished MPs to somehow allow me to realize that today's session will have the agenda that you received in the call for the agenda. Of course, we'll do everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and when this proposal comes, we'll decide whether it's a statement or not, but I certainly know that the representatives' clubs, including the club I belong to, will not be declared any additional points of the agenda. 3 The Honorable Representative Damir Arnaut appeared for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4556	I thank the chairman. So here is the fact that it is already detached from this principle that an additional item of the agenda has been proposed, here I have now given the departments material to share, I propose a agenda point – holding a constitutional session of the Justice Committee of the House of Representatives with the conclusion: The House orders the Home Secretary to schedule within 10 days of the date of adoption of this conclusion a constitutive session of the Research Commission established by the House's conclusion at the 2nd emergency session of this House. It is known to all that this Commission is formed by the conclusion of this High House, that the members have been delivered in accordance with the conclusion of the House and the Rules of Procedure, and that the Secretary of the House whose obligation to the Rules of Procedure refuses to convene a constitutional session of this Commission and therefore, given such interpretation and such an approach, I propose this item of the agenda, to order the House to convene within 10 days a constitutional session of this Commission which, I remind you, is already formed and has its members in accordance with the conclusion and Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4557	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Agent Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4558	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office of Rule 71 (1) clearly states that I have the right to propose this item to the agenda. You, in your explanation, mention, as far as I understand, of some ordinary right, you're saying it wasn't a practice. If someone didn't want to use their business rights before, it's something else, I insist, and here's what I want to say. So, I propose a agenda item – Information on the arrangements and decisions of three members of the Bureau on the reform programme adopted at the Bureau session and sent to Brussels. Reason: So, the whole state is shaking after a year there was a stumbling block around the ANP, and all of a sudden we have the public that it's agreed, the MPs don't know, this tall house doesn't know what it says there. It's a whole set of reforms and we want us and the public to know what's going on, and I think the citizens have a right to know, not like in Dayton when it happened, so even today we have consequences, we didn't know what was going on there. Several people have decided on the fate of this country and its citizens and I insist that we vote on this item of the agenda and see who will vote and who will support and take a break to deliver this document to us and to make the whole public aware.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4559	Okay, thank you. 4 So no one disputes any right of MPs that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have only asked and asked for understanding because the essence and essence of this session is not to spread the agenda but to complete today's agenda. And given that the BiH presidency has appointed a mandater, this means that we will now see each other much more often than before and there will be opportunities, of course, for each of these initiatives, proposals, discussions, etc. So the intention was to end this session today quickly and efficiently with this agenda point. And for those who make changes and additions or propose some new points of the agenda, I also remind you of Article 71. The Rules of Procedure which states that such a proposal may not be, in its content, only have the name of that point but must be accompanied by the relevant material in writing, which was not the case with this, with this proposal that we received from Commissioner Helez. But here, therefore, I repeat once again that if possible you understand my request to end today's session with this agenda point that you received in the invitation. Very soon we will have a regular session, very soon, where the appointment of commissions and other materials will be, and it will certainly be an opportunity to put these points on the agenda or suggest on the agenda, it is only about four, five, six or seven days. I'm still suggesting that we end this today with this agenda point, because I consider it the most effective procedure, but here we go in the order of reporting. Saša Magazinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4560	Dear Chairman, I welcome you, your deputies, colleagues and fellow MPs, and everyone else present. So, you're absolutely right that in the Rules of Procedure it stands so, that when you want to suggest a point of the agenda that you should also deliver matter, right. However, this is a specific case where if we had that material we would bring it here and divide it. Actually, the point of the agenda is that we get this material and, of course, we get to know it. I, along the way, take the opportunity to congratulate the agreement reached on the establishment of power, and I think it was really high time for that to happen. If I understand Mr. Šarović and Mr. Komšić and Džaferović well, we are heading towards NATO and I welcome it and I welcome it publicly and if there is a personal interest in politics, and there is, my personal interest is that we are moving that way. I believe that it was indeed the right position that without respecting the Constitution and the law cannot form power and that first ANP goes, and then the government and message indeed to everyone here and to those, here are colleagues from the SNSD, don't take this as any defeat this is a good thing done for the state, and I would really like, apart from this aspect of reform, we have an opportunity based on the proposal of colleague Zukan Helez to get the whole material and to discuss it, and why not, here and as an opposition we give support if it's really good. Now, say that we can't discuss it because we didn't deliver the material is a reverse thesis, because we're asking that those who made it deliver it. I hope you'll appreciate that, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4561	Okay, thank you very much. We have another, one request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, or two. I remind you of Article 76 again. The Rules of Procedure shall specify the provision of the Rules of Procedure which have been injured after which we may also decide on the justification of the objection itself. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and under it to talk about some other topics, of course, will not be allowed. 5 Therefore, the honourable representative Zlatan Begić, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, above all, who is a member of the Rules of Procedure, is broken and after which we will talk about the content of your complaint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4562	The Honored Chairman, chairperson, respected colleagues and colleagues of the infringements of the Rules of Procedure refer precisely to Article 71. You are actually right there, the essence of emergency sessions, their dynamics and the possibility of holding emergency sessions is tied to the agenda as it is proposed and therefore the emergency session is requested. If you look at the provisions referred to by the members to whom the call agenda is complemented in your proposal, you will see that it is actually a regular procedure and regular sessions. So I'd like to ask you to go back to the Rules of Procedure, nothing else. Another brief addition, you know, if something was signed yesterday and if we need to, and we need to get information, I agree, that these materials should definitely be prepared, we need people who signed it to prepare for these things and that we can do in a concrete and constructive way here to pass it on to us, and so that we can further discuss it. Therefore, the infringement of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, which is precisely to be called upon by the proposings for the addition of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4563	I thank the esteemed representative Begić, I think we have the same attitude about this issue. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4564	The Honorable Chairman, members of the Kolegijum, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. My intervention was just on the verge of what you just said, so behavior in accordance with Article 76. I don't think it's appropriate for us to present political views and qualifications under the firm's violation of the Rules of Procedure, so please direct the discussion like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4565	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative of Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4566	I thank the chairman. Refers to Mr. Begić's discussion, article 71 makes no difference between the emergency session and the regular session, and even when it comes to Article 68. It is very clear from the Rules of Procedure that when emergency sessions are at issue, flexibility is far higher. So, Article 68. The Rules of Procedure make it very clear that in the event of emergency sessions, the agenda of the session may be proposed at the beginning of its maintenance, and the materials divided at the session itself. So, unlike the regular ones where there is a much stricter relationship to the agenda when emergency sessions are in the matter of the Rules of Procedure it is very clear that 6 flexibility is at a far higher level so that there is absolutely no dilemma, and even when it comes to practice, here is the second emergency session of this House, there have been a lot of proposals on the agenda, even Mr Lovrinović asked that one point, which was the only one proposed before the start, be taken off the agenda and all this was voted. So, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, it is very clear, the practice is even clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4567	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Begić.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4568	Well, here's the thing, once again, I welcome everyone present. Article 71 shall refer to Article 70 and Article 70 shall refer to Articles 111 and 123 which are clearly talking about regular sessions and regular proceedings, which shall consist of a false allegation. So this is an emergency character session, it's an emergency procedure, it's two significantly different procedures in this and each other's representative body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4569	Dear Representative Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4570	So Article 71, however, you cannot quote on an arbitrary basis, so Article 71 is also referred not to Article 70, but to Rule 70 (2) of the Rules of Procedure which does not speak about emergency, or regular sessions, but about what is mandatory, and what is not a mandatory item of the agenda. Therefore, this interpretation is essentially a violation of the Rules of Procedure. But here I am again going back to article 68, which is very clear that even the agenda can be proposed at the session itself and the material divided into the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4571	Thank you very much. It seems to me that we are going a little bit in a direction that we didn't plan today, I again appeal that the essence of this session was the item of the agenda that you received in the invitation, signed by 18 MPs, and it is unclear why the representatives who signed the request to hold this session with one item of the agenda today are making changes and supplementing that agenda. Why, then, did the emergency session request not immediately raise the question of these other points of the agenda? So there's one little illogicality here, so I appeal to you, this topic won't go away, none of the topics proposed will go away in a day, not in two, not in three, not in five, we'll have regular sessions, you'll be able to put it on the agenda. I urge that today's agenda be just a proposed item of the agenda that you received in the invitation. So that's my appeal, we're not defending anyone to suggest, I'm only appealing for the efficiency of today's session and the importance of the proposed agenda point. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Stevandić. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4572	Thank you very much. I will specify the article 82 has to do with what you just said, so – when the debate on the agenda points out a number of proposals, the chairman of the dom puts forward proposals for conclusions in the order of the proposal after the first statement on the proposals of the House of Vote MPs as a whole. In principle, we have two, two amendments to the agenda and I ask you to shorten the possibility, to say, that we are having infertile debates and that we are fighting here, or that colleague Saša Magazinović is interpreting a document that has not seen or interpreted someone's opinion on this document and that someone is talking about what the path to NATO is or is not, so that I don't think it's right and I think we should move on to the operational part of the work to vote on these new proposals, if they pass, they are in the agenda, if they don't pass. We have a agenda to vote on at the end of the session, and I think it's much more constructive and whole. And if we want to discuss what the Bureau signed yesterday, here I can discuss, I can say that it does not say any accession obligations...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4573	Okay, that's not the point, we're not leaving the topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4574	So, and that's why I'm telling you, you let your colleague Arnaut talk about it, don't interrupt me. So, I'm just talking about that's not the point of the agenda, but if someone wants us to open that story, it's no problem. So, we have resolutions of the National Assembly, you have the Defense Act in place, neither of them are writing in a document written by the Presidency, but I don't think that's the point of the agenda that wasn't even adopted at the end, so I'm asking you to shorten this infertile bickering.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4575	Yes, yes, we should certainly all be relaxed, but as long as we have the applicants we have to give them the word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Agent Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4576	The Honorable Chairman is no argument why we didn't deliver earlier, only tonight at 12:00 if I had come here I don't know who to deliver it to, because it happened yesterday as you know. And even more so, this fear of some MPs, a colleague through their discussions, I want more and more, because of their fear of being put on the agenda and that the public knows, here they say, in both entities and in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I insist we cut this short, and it's not an argument, uh, here we are staying long, so for God's sake, we haven't done anything for a year and now we're done in an hour to go home again, right? I insist you put in a debate, take a break an hour to get it to us, so who in God's name should know some important document for this country if we elected MPs in the House of Representatives directly in the elections chosen, if it's hidden from us then I don't know who it's being made for. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4577	Dear Representative Borenović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4578	Thank you, Your Honor. At the beginning of this session, I was on the trail of what you said, the violation of the Rules of Procedure is a member of 71st and the right of MPs to seek amendments to the agenda and I was on the trail of what you said to do and that the rule of working on a predetermined agenda, but I must now say after several recent violations of Rules of Procedure and Discussions and the views of certain MPs I have the feeling that this request is fully justified and that we should seriously consider it, because we see that some in this room know the content of this document that was adopted yesterday in the BiH Presidency, and as regards sending this first document to the North Atlantic Alliance in Brussels. It is very important, important that Parliament has knowledge, if it cannot have knowledge of this Parliament who should have, and especially the public what it says. Because if certain MPs say they know there is no resolution in the document on the military neutrality of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska or some other documents clearly available. I ask you to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, all of you sitting here, allow this very important document, which is being discussed here for almost 24 hours, to deliver to the public, to the citizens, to Parliamentarians and to know what it is and what it says, because everything else is being discussed, and that we do not have clear indicators of what it would be like to discredit this Parliament. I know it's not a practice, but since it's an important thing after a year, I think it would be very correct, correct towards the citizens, towards the people, according to the MPs, to get this document, to get to know the content of the document, I fully consider this request to be a valid fellow, Helez, and we will support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4579	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Begić. It's the second time, just so you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4580	I thank the chairman. So, before I state the false allegation and my intention to correct the same, of course we're all interested in seeing what it says there and to pranalize, and ultimately, citizens need to know that. However, I would point out here that, at the discussion of fellow Arnaut, Article 71 (1) points to position (2), but in addition to the position (2), we here have both attitude (1) and attitude (3) and attitude (4) and it is obvious both nomotechnical and in any other way that this member is interpreted and applied to regular sessions and regular proceedings. The session of the emergency character is even particularly separated in the nomotechnical sense of Article 68. I really won't answer again, I don't think this beat on the tut, the beat leads anywhere with some interpretations, I'm sticking to the attitude that you initially explained very nicely in order to enable the final efficiency of this body, and the demands of both colleagues Arnaut and all colleagues who came forward, but at some other session and in some other procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4581	Thank you very much. 9 The Honorable Arnaut, the correction of the false precept. I'm asking you to give the club chiefs a chance that's been waiting a long time to hear from them since they applied for the discussion. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4582	Correction of the wrong allegation, so I'm not going to talk about Article 68, 72, 73 here is about the essence, don't you want us to finally form this Justice Investigation Commission, because that's exactly where you're taking this story anymore? So, the Rules of Procedure are clear, this investigation committee was formed in June of this year, and yet no constitutional session has been called and I see only obstructions here, that the Commission is finally starting to work. Let us vote and let the House declare it and all other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4583	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, no longer can, you've exhausted your options. I give my word to the club president, the esteemed representative Adil Osmanović, the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4584	Thank you, Your Honor. My fellow Members and fellow Members, ministers, media representatives, allow me to present our position on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action's Party of Representatives' Club for calling the 3rd emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Despite the fact that we did not get this launched initiative on signature, to support it by the promoters, we discussed this initiative in detail at the Club's session and we are ready to participate in today's 3rd emergency session of the Representative's House and I want to highlight the club's position, which is that we will take part and support only this proposed agenda point in accordance with Article 68, which we have already heard a lot about. We think it is very important this initiative to prevent further blocking of the work of the House of Representatives, therefore, as I said, we will take part in and support this proposed agenda without any additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4585	Thank you, Your Honor. I think this attitude was very clear and I hope it will help resolve this situation in terms of proposing changes and additions. Honorable member of the Košarac team, head of the club. Here you go, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4586	Thank you, Chairman. I think the course of the debate and the content of the debate is based on what we at the SNSD Parliament Club conclude, that there are absolutely no elements of urgency for the appointment of this session, for the simple reason that, using the Rules of Procedure, all the political structures delivered their proposals to the candidates at the end of 15th. The 11th and that business provision is fully respected, and 10 should also be said for known reasons, and there has been a stalemate in the submission of the candidate's proposal. However, I would also like to say that two clubs have submitted proposals to the College of Representatives' House in accordance with Rules of Procedure 15.11. On 18.11. came to the office to request an emergency session and that's what I want to talk to you about, and we knew about the initiative a long time ago. The only business order would be for the College of the House of Representatives to schedule a regular session and to enter the process of the appointment of permanent working bodies of the House of Representatives. True, and this should be said, the only justification for the emergency session's appointment was in the fact that the Committee for Preparation and Selection of the Council of Ministers has not been established. There was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and there was a violation of the Council of Ministers' Law, and if and for what an emergency session was meant to be, it was supposed to be an emergency session for the fact that a deadline for the appointment of a committee was broken and what was definitely in breach of the Council of Ministers' Law. I think it's a strong argument and that's why we've been very clear that it's unnecessary to schedule an emergency session of the House of Representatives with a agenda like this. I will also say that there are no elements to the adoption of any amendments to the Rules of Procedure in order to schedule this session. I believe that most colleagues participated in the work of parliaments at perhaps some lower levels, that we have seen shortcomings in the application of the Rules of Procedure and that we have launched the procedure regularly including all the political structures that are participating in this body, then it could be commented on as a good intention to improve Parliament's work, working bodies, etc. I understand the tendencies of others, but I don't think this is going to be a good model for one simple reason that out of 42 MPs in the House of Representatives, 18 has signed. We're opening procedure that maybe every session of the House of Representatives has changes to our Rules of Procedure by emergency. Are we going to define the work of this body by improving it or are we going to do, perhaps, something that no one wants in this room? That's why I think the amended Rules of Procedure of this body is a serious process, a serious business. and for this reason I believe that this kind of practice can only bring this normative act [[the speaker is warned on time]] in the phase of his non-application and in particular some other relationships. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The MPs' club, I conclude by thanking the chairman for the warning, is therefore against this urgent session and, of course, against the urgency of the procedure of amending the Rules of Procedure for a number of reasons, and of course, one of the fundamental ones that has been discussed in the institutions of Republika Srpska and the institutions have made certain conclusions that oblige us from Republika Srpska not to enter into this process. So we won't vote for either. this agenda, nor for any changes to the agenda. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4587	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Begić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4588	So, respected colleagues and colleagues. 11 Article 71(1) and Article 10, the rights and duties of Members, to act in accordance with the principle of truthfulness and respecting the integrity of this body and its colleagues. My kolega Arnaut knows well that I was here first publicly proposing the formation of an investigative commission. While I explained it and referred to the business provisions, it remained in the records and stenograms, he formed an initiative and handed it over, and so it was, and so the story went. So I think it's extremely degutant to count how many times anyone's reported themselves, so they can't answer the wrong assumption and lead in a completely inappropriate way of discussing and building a completely inappropriate relationship with their colleagues in this House. So, Article 10(1) and Article 71 (1), and I would ask the chairman to fully respect, of course, the views and other colleagues, to return to what is the agenda, and what is very important in the final, and for all possible blockades and deblockations of this highest constitutional and legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4589	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative of Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4590	Also, Article 10. The Rules of Procedure, therefore, these are completely untrue allegations, and I have prepared it the day before, and I can confirm that they are colleagues with whom I have conducted extensive discussions on the subject. But not to mention, I'm surprised Mr. Begić didn't point to the breach of Mr. Staša Košarac's Rules of Procedure. Therefore, Article 71 makes it very clear that at this stage, new points of the agenda can only be proposed, or ask for the absence of existing ones, rather than giving a political speech, and Mr. Košarac knows it very well, and Mr. Begić should know and point out, perhaps, and to such violations of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4591	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Begić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4592	Article 68 of the convocation and maintenance of emergency sessions, I would ask all colleagues that, the procedure is fully respected, the quota satisfied, to return to the business work and to the borders of the Rules of Procedure at this session today, to leave some personal bickering. After all, this doesn't even transmit television, so nobody here has to focus on getting some cheap political points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4593	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Borenović, correcting the wrong allegations, and I hope that we will slowly finish. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4594	Very specifically, the correction of the wrong allegations by counterpart Košarac about the Commission's dissatisfaction with preparing the BiH Council of Ministers' election. It's very important that we clarify these things with arguments right here in the high house, whether or not it was recorded, in the end it's going to be a stenogram. This Commission was elected on 6 December 2018, in which I myself was proposed in front of my political party and the Commission had on the proposal of the Secretary-General of the House the first constitutive session at which the Commission's leadership was not elected, and that is quite correct, unlike the Commission, which did not have its own constitutive session, which is also a large, large, failure of leadership and the Kolegijum, which I do not think is good, that this is a selective approach. When it comes to preparing and selecting the Council of Ministers until it is elected by the oldest MP in that Commission, it is the MP who comes from these two parliamentary clubs, the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats, who did not want to propose until the other day to any member of the Permanent Commissions, and probably did not want to work in the Commission to prepare the Council of Ministers of BiH, and could because he has a business opportunity, because it is clearly prescribed by the Rules of Procedure that the Council of Ministers should be convened on a proposal from the chairman, in this case by the oldest MP coming from these clubs, and by one member of the Commission, and from these two SNSD Clubs have several members of the Commission for the selection of Council of Ministers. I'm obliged to say it, I think it's very important that those facts be clarified, because there were many previous days of trying to manipulate things that absolutely don't stand because it's precisely defined who, how and how can they call the Commission, what to suggest, it's named here in this House exactly a year ago and there are MPs who could have worked countless times by now. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4595	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragan Mektić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4596	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I shall, to put it that way, use myself in my discussion with the provision of Article 71. A Rules of Procedure in which each MP has the right to propose, at the beginning of the session and when determining the agenda, giving up some points or supplementing some points. I would support this proposal from the SDP of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we will receive this document from the BiH presidency today and that we should meet him and discuss it. This is a strategic issue for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. According to my very well-founded information, this document is locked in the safes of BiH presidency members and according to orders from some international factors, it must not be shown to the public until we have confirmed that Brussels, or NATO in Brussels, has adopted the document. As some have said here in their discussions, that they had insight into this document and that they know what it says, that there is no mention of the resolution of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, here to say that I, in some ways, have come to the key, to say so, things and this document, which first says that there is no mention of Bosnia and Herzegovina's military neutrality anywhere, that the status and membership of Bosnia and Herzegovina in NATO will not be decided by lower levels of government but solely by the state authorities and institutions, that in this document finds a set of things related to Defence Reform and Security Sector Reform. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, alone. The team excludes and repeals the Resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I think it is particularly in the interests of the people [[the speaker is warned on time]] in Republika Srpska and us who represent it here that we have this document and see if it stands in that document, or if there is no mention of any military neutrality and whether, as it is stated there, o [[the speaker is warned on time]] With participation, I will immediately finish, will not decide lower levels of government, that is, none of the Republika Srpska's, that is, entity of the Federation of BiH. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, I'm finishing up, asking for an hour's break with a request to deliver these documents and to have members of the Bureau come here to explain this document to us. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4597	I already said there's no pause when there's a debate on the agenda. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. Here, before I give you a further word, to the MPs about the violations of the Rules of Procedure and the corrections of the wrong quote, please just one, such thinking, yes, hypothetically. Today's session made sense because the club of a political party that did not sign the initiative was agreed to hold this session and said in advance it would support the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure as a part of the agenda. The question for all, if 18 MPs had cited the points you're proposing right now, would this session have made sense today, because this club that supports this point probably wouldn't have supported holding an emergency session at the moment? Just so much to think about and once again, the last appeal to stay at the point you received in the call. Ask for a new emergency session, no problem at all, with agenda points, the Rules of Procedure must be held, we will add the necessary materials, we will discuss the materials, no one disputes their importance, but we all know that we have no idea that at this point we are discussing material that we do not own. So I'm just appealing, I'm not insisting, I'm not defending anyone to propose and speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but, look, let's think about what I said. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative, Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4599	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs. I want to go back to article 68 again, which is a member who regulates the emergency session. In my opinion, the Rules of Procedure should interpret not only as it says, but as we wanted in this Rules of Procedure when we prescribed that the emergency session be convened in this way. So it takes at least five MPs to apply and the College convenes an emergency session within three days. The agenda of the one who requested that emergency session may be suggested at the session itself, but for those reasons that he requested an emergency session. Every new extension of the agenda with some new points, in my opinion, requires a new request with an emergency session. That's mine, I've been a lawyer for 35 years, I think it's some kind of telelogical, targeted interpretation of article 68. The Rules of Procedure of this House. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4600	Of course, here, not to comment, I fully agree with your position because it could only be requested to hold an emergency session and to propose the agenda at the session itself. This time an emergency session is requested with a very precise agenda and only one item on the agenda. All others agreed to hold a session with that agenda item and said in advance they would participate in the discussion and discussion and its eventual adoption. The expansion of the agenda kind of disrupts that, so to speak, philosophy, but here we go, we'll never go beyond the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, honourable MP Mektić, and I ask you to stick to the fact that which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, that we do not go into political discussions, that we stick to time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4601	Thank you, Chairman. I don't see the need for you to ask anyone here or anything. There is a Rules of Procedure on the work of this House in which it is clearly written and in which it is clearly prescribed. Not even Article 78, pardon 68, does not exclude the possibility of proposing new agenda points, and Article 71 says new lines can be proposed. So, come on, let's work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, suggest the points that we think are essential, which are very important for this House, and here I've heard some kind of discussion, give the chair to cut this, go back to the agenda, etc. It is not the practice of this Parliament, it can and is happening somewhere else, but here it cannot. We have a Rules of Procedure, we are working on the Rules of Procedure, let us propose what we are entitled to and what we think is very important and important, and the appeals and requests, I am asking you not to try to convince ourselves of something here that, in contrast with the Regulation.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4602	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm quite certain that most of the signatories of this initiative understand my appeal, because it seems to me that the objective of holding a session is to propose a agenda point, I guess it's focus, not enlargement, but there it is. Let's move on, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4603	I thank the chairman. I think this session has been a little delayed and because of your participation in the debate, therefore, this is not just a session where you refer to certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure, it has also grown into a political debate on your part, and Article 78. The Rules of Procedure, which I refer to specifically now, make it very clear that if he wishes to participate in the debate, the dom Chairman leaves the chair of the House and goes out for a pay phone. During that time, the House is chaired by the Vice-President and after your previous discussion, the list of registered speakers has suddenly increased, but at least I do not dispute your right to participate in the debate, but at least respect the Rules of Procedure. What concerns me, what you said in that political debate, that your Club and you as chairman would not sign an emergency session request, or would not call an emergency session that 18 MPs, among other things, have delivered what I have proposed today, to unblock this work of the Interim Investigation Commission, and if I understand Mr Osmanović well, Club 15 SDA today will not support it and to me it is absolutely unclear that the Commission is investigating the situation in the judiciary that was formed in June of this year, which has not yet been called in because the Secretary of the House refuses to call it, which is why someone would not support a simple sentence that the House which established the Commission is ordering the secretary to finally convene a constitutional session, to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4604	Of course, I, all the MPs, who have spoken so far, and especially those who will speak, warn of the violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and especially the abuse of the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and the correction of the wrong allegation. But when someone's trying to quote me, do it right. I didn't say we wouldn't call an emergency session, whoever's applying for an emergency session will be called in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but the club I belong to would probably not have made a positive statement about the proposed points that there were more than one. We don't know. We prejudge things. So, we were just talking about one item on the agenda. Dear Representative Magazinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4605	We're all talking about Article 71, and me, and when we say Article 71, we say what comes to mind, but here's what I'm going to try to do, let's try the chairman in line with what you're saying get out of this story. First, let me just say this, you mentioned several times that you didn't immediately suggest these points. We couldn't, but last night this happened, so if it was before, it would have certainly gone in demand, but you said like this, let's try to correct me – schedule a new emergency session with one item on the agenda, we'll schedule it and we'll find the material. Here, I say on behalf of the club, here, we'll pull this now, if you're standing behind what you said, and here, right now, let's agree, on Monday's signature, on Wednesday session with this agenda point. If he can do that, today's session we've relieved those points, given that obviously we're not going to get this paper today, is it, or document. Here, if we can work this out, then we can speed this up a little bit, if we don't, let's go to a vote and see where we can get to.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4606	Okay, of course, this isn't the place for that kind of deal, they have the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I repeat, whoever acts in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I, as chairman and my colleagues, will also respond in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4607	The Honorable Chairman. I am once again warning of Rule 76, as well as Article 71 (1). Namely, I just, here, for all of us here, I have to notice that this virus of devastration of parliaments under the company of violations of the Rules of Procedure which has been played in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska slowly procedure and this one, so I warn you because of the quality of work, because of the articulation, because of the quality of communication and the exchange of arguments, that we should normally work, that you really act in accordance with this Article 76th position (1), and also, here I am also on the background of Mr. Stevandić's proposal, although I don't think there is any reason to accept any changes to the agenda now, given that there is no written material... so please really stick to it. You are all referring to Article 16 of Article 71 (1), and no one should read it to the end and apply it. Well, then, please once again chairing the discussion in accordance with Articles 76 and 71. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4608	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, the esteemed representative of Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4609	Thank you, Chairman. I'll look back on two discussions of Mr. Mektić. First of all, don't, not you, but any of us, don't personally experience it, we're giving any kind of a flat-rate assessment of the contents of an act, if we haven't seen it. Collision, your part of the discussion you said that you had information that it was locked in safes, and then we enter into a metric from the content that... I understand the political need and absolutely do not dispute anyone, nor will I ever do it, nor have I done it in this House to dispute someone's right to have a different opinion, but to present a certain type of qualifications I think is unserious. And if we go back to the previous four years and we analyze the source and a series of decrepit statements, then we're back in a situation that we can assume that someone wants to place some incorrect information. I would like to talk about these important issues based on facts and acts that, if the House of Representatives gets, based on what it says. And I think that would be perfectly correct, not getting into all of this, except, here, I'm asking all of us a question, except that we have the right to ask for information, here, even if we even have a debate, the majority is estimated to be necessary, what can Parliament do, and what is its jurisdiction in this process and this process? Not at all. And I understand the political need, but come on, if he already has this qualified structure that can ensure that this is talked about in Parliament, then at least wait until we get the document. I deeply believe that a Serbian member of the presidency respects the views of the institutions of Republika Srpska, the National Assembly. I believe that in the communication it has with regional leaders, with other representatives of the institutions of Republika Srpska and how it takes care of the constitutional competences and interests of Republika Srpska, and do not in one way present some type of qualifications, and especially by respecting this fact and this dilemma, I have consulted several colleagues through messages, when it comes to Parliament and its authority in this context, Parliament has no authority in this context. Except he can ask for information, he can argue, but when it comes to all this, I think they're Parliament's capacity. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4610	Let's go a little faster. Dear Representative Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4611	The correction of my false quote refers to this discussion of Mr. and Honorable Member of Staša Košarac. If this Parliament has no authority in this whole process of these integrations of Bosnia and Herzegovina into NATO that you started in 2009 by signing Mr Radmanović's act, then I think you are wrong. As for the presentation of certain facts in the document, so we did not stand up and state certain facts, but it seems to me that 17 is a lady or a lady not quite sure now, Bursać, if I am wrong, said here that the document does not mention the resolution of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. So how come this kind of information... or why the right of someone to give details of this document to someone, and I don't have the right or I'm denied the right to say what I know about this document, and I know a lot about this document, and there will be a lot more stories about this document, and we'll see that yesterday's document, so it's Bosnia and Herzegovina's NATO story ends, and now it's just a matter of Brisel and NATO deciding when and how we're going to do it. And give Please, again without these appeals and suggestions to end this discussion, that we can't discuss the agenda, that we can't discuss the agenda, and be careful, we can't, once again in this [[the speaker is warned on time]] In this Parliament, this is done differently than in other places where parliamentary violence is carried out. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4612	Thank you. Dear Representative Osmanović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4613	Thank you, Chairman. So you can see that the Party of Democratic Action MPs' club is trying not to get involved in certain debates, replicas. We wish to, in accordance with article 68, on calling for an emergency session, we have explained to him that it is quite clear, these 18 MPs who have initiated the call for this emergency session have made it clear what the agenda is and for us it is in a certain way binding and we want to discuss this point of the agenda, but what my colleague Arnaut mentioned, here, me and the Party of Democratic Action's Club, to wonder why we do not support this proposal for the conclusion of the Investigation Commission. That's the thing that's common knowledge, and we're wondering why this investigation committee hasn't been in session so far, you signed this initiative among these 18, it was familiar, you could have put this on and I think it absolutely doesn't need any conclusion on that investigation committee, that it does. We expect it to work, and if you think it should, here, run the same way it's run when it comes to this third emergency session. Of course we support all these initiatives in terms of the agenda, but we ask them to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Here, the chairman also said this initiative, which is at stake by the SDP, I support it but it is in line with the Rules of Procedure, and that is something that is certain, this document will definitely come here in parliamentary benches, whether today, in five days, ten days, but it will surely be here and we will be able to conduct a quality discussion, but we want to focus on this point of the proposed agenda and to finish it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4614	Thank you. Dear Representative Stevandić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4615	Thank you very much. 18 Correction of the false allegations concerning Mr. Mektić's discussion. The issue of NATO integration or any integration into another military alliance is a constitutional issue. You know that in this country the Constitution changes the consent of peoples and entities. When the time comes for this, the peoples and entities will decide in a manner prescribed and then you will see who respects the resolution. So there is no change in the status of any decisions, neither the Presidency nor anyone else before, and I pray that it is understood that the issue of military integration, the amendment of the Constitution, is treated by the consent of the peoples and entities. It was also clear to Mr Izetbegović, who talked about it, I hope many will understand that, that we do not use this issue for daily political purposes. When that happens, we will show how much we respect Rezolicija National Assembly of Republika Srpska, whether we will or will not, or perhaps ask for a referendum to check, that maybe the people above, this, the National Assembly, means, by this, when the time comes, and now that we're not considering things based on assumptions, it's not serious.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4616	Thank you. Dear Representative Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4617	I thank the chairman. Mr Osmanović, you would know that I also asked the College and the secretary why he did not call the constitutive session of this investigation committee, and then you would know that the answer of the secretary was that he did not need to call the meeting of the Commission and therefore this agenda point, that Dom ordered him to call the constitutive session of the Investigation Commission. As for your comments about wanting to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you see, the situation is very simple, chairing the House which is from your party will now either put this proposal on the agenda or not. If he puts it to a vote, given that it is his obligation to implement the Rules of Procedure, it will mean that he considers the proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if he does not put it to the vote, it will mean that he does not consider it in compliance with the Rules of Procedure. Now, if he puts it to a vote, and you vote against, it will mean that you have a different opinion from your chairman about whether something is in line with the Rules of Procedure or not. So, come on like this, I think it's a very simple question, if this is put to a vote, we will all accept that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because it is the chairman who decides whether or not something is in line with the Rules of Procedure. If you put it to a vote, the only reason why you can vote against it clearly results in you disagreeing with the essence, and the essence of it again is to order you as Home Secretary of the House to finally, six months later, convene a constitutional session of this Research Commission that we can work in accordance with Dom's conclusions and that's that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4618	Thank you. Dear Representative Borenović, correcting the wrong allegations. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4619	I do not really agree with colleagues who say this House has nothing to do with the decisions of other institutions, the joint institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it absolutely does not stand, that if and what it should insist on this House of Representatives, it is in public, on the availability of all acts, especially those that are extremely sensitive, which are very important and which, behold, have been keeping us away from what is the essential role and this Parliament for almost a year. It is particularly important to repeat that we heard, and we will take a stenogram, very precisely, from certain MPs that they know the content of the BiH Reform Decision sent to NATO, to Brussels, so that some even said that they knew there was no military neutrality, or anything requested by another or third party, so we heard about the Decision on the eventual accession to the NATO Pact, not on the lower bodies of the authorities, but exclusively within the joint institutions of BiH, so we heard a variety of other things. The only way we're chairing to get out of these interpretations that can be and manipulative is to get the document. This should be Parliament's strength, that every act that is official, which has been adopted, is available, published, and that is something that I have a feeling should be, if nothing else should be slow about. That's why I think it's this one. and even this one that, if not possible today, it is delivered over some period over the next few days. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4620	Thank you. Dear Representative Osmanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Chief of the club, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4621	Thank you, Chairman. What my colleague Arnaut was saying is now asking a fellow Arnaut whether you really have good intentions for us to work today and to end this agenda point that you have initiated and signed. Our aim is to complete the request for an examination of the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives today and I invite you to all move in this direction. I said, and we're surprised why this investigation committee hasn't worked so far, if anything has changed since yesterday, tell us, it's the same thing for Mr. and colleague Borenović. Nothing has changed yesterday, an initiative has been launched, and we believe that this initiative, as I said, is preventing some future possibilities of blocking this House and calling for us to move and work in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4622	Thank you, Your Honor. I think most people think that way. Dear Representative Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4623	Thank you, Chairman. My correction to the wrong quote refers to this discussion by Mr. Nenad Stevandić. In 2009, Nebojša Radmanović signed a decision asking for the activation of the MAP and wrote a letter quoting it -- that it is crucial that Bosnia and Herzegovina become a member of NATO as soon as possible. After that, did you say that you were naive and that it was no longer valid? Did Milorad Dodik say anything similar to the AMP wouldn't accept and send it to Brussels? Did you say you would press charges for the bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or Serbia, and Republika Srpska? Did you say you were going to press charges because they were targeting the poored uranium...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4624	Please, agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4625	Here's just a false allegation, and now you assure us that in the end you will make a decision that is in line with the interests, let me say here, first of all, the Serbian people, and all of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and who more can believe in the continuity of your policy. You've admitted yourself a hundred times that you've turned out to be naive...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4626	The agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4627	You've deceived the people yourself a hundred times, and now I've only given you three, four examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4628	I would ask all the honourable MPs, since several of the last discussions have already started to be used in an inadequate way to violate the Rules of Procedure or correct the wrong allegations not to be angry, but I will not allow any further discussions that are repeated or leaving or are not related to the agenda of this session. The esteemed deputy, Mrs. Krišto, is correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4629	Thank you very much. Dear fellow chairman, co-chairing, co-workers and colleagues, all present guests at this extraordinary session, I warmly welcome you all. My correction of the wrong allegation refers to the allegations made by fellow MP Damir Arnaut in the context of the request for information, i.e. the conclusion that one of the previous emergency sessions was held when the conclusion on the establishment of the Research Commission was adopted, why this Committee was not established. I'd like to remind you that even on television shows, my colleague Arnaut made allegations that this House appointed this Committee. I will remind and remember for all of us, this dom has reached its conclusion on the formation of the Research Commission and said, Mr Arnaut, and wrote in that article that it would say – in case, at the end of that period, the provisions of Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure in terms of entity representation were not respected, that the club which delivered the names of members of the given entity could provide the names of the missing number of members of the same entity within three days. I remind you and my colleague Damir Arnaut of Article 30, which says in paragraph (1) – The House appoints members of the Committee, the appointment must be in line with the allocation of the place in this House. This article and this provision, that is to say, cannot conclude any conclusion. Therefore, please, if we are working all day long, we are racing to talk business, there are clear things in the 21st Rules of Procedure, only whether it is our desire and intention to work really with the Rules of Procedure or those who are calling for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and abuse it themselves. Thank you very much. Therefore, I would still like to say, add briefly, so this Committee, whose conclusion was reached on the establishment of the Commission, has not appointed a commission and is not entitled to be established in this case by the Secretary or Secretary of this House, has no right to call until the House has appointed this Committee and it cannot be established before that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4630	Thank you, Deputy Deputy. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative of Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4631	I thank the chairman. The Vice-President has not said anything that the secretary has not already written in response to my business question, I refer to the same member of the Rules of Procedure and that is the wrong interpretation of the Rules of Procedure that both you and the Secretary have. Since you are acting in accordance with this incorrect interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I have therefore suggested that the House finally put an end to this issue. In the case of entity representation, I remind you again, everything was resolved by that conclusion and when SNSD and HDZ, when they refused to appoint their members, the SDS and the PDP took the burden and appointed additional members in that Commission by name and last name, and was thus respected 1/3 at 2/3, entity representation in this Commission which has its members. In line with the conclusion of the House, they were appointed and therefore I propose this item of the agenda, to put an end to the incorrect interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, that Dom simply tells the secretary – you will call this session and then it is binding. When Dom, you know it very well, when the House comes to its conclusion, unless it violates the Constitution or the Law, that conclusion is binding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4632	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed First Deputy, Mr. Radmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4633	Dear Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, Mrs. Krišto. I say that the Rules of Procedure of Rule 72 has been injured, and it clearly states that it is only talking about the established agenda. Since it hasn't been a session in a long time, the chairman wants to be a real Democrats and lets everyone talk about whatever they want. Here, completely unargumented, out of the agenda, there was talk of names that should not be spoken of at all, not just for this point, but for other things. A number of MPs are destroying the reputation of this Parliament by saying things that he has not read or may not know how to read and, therefore, he is completely wrong to mention the names of certain people and certain events. Of course, it's consistent with that, if you repeat the lie multiple times, it'll become a reality. Not, the facts exist, everything can be read, everything is on the table of all, not the MPs, but the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina 22, and they know exactly what the way of this country was, in which both towards European and Euro-Atlantic and other integrations. I've also called to say that I'm asking everyone, to get to the agenda point. Most of the debate here shouldn't have been there. The chairman, using article 1, respected the request to call an emergency session even though I thought there was no reason to do so. Instead of you who asked you to use what enabled you to conduct the debate, to come to some conclusion about it, you have extended the debate on what is not at all a subject today and is not a part of the agenda. I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that everything people have and want to propose, be suggested in the future. This Parliament will work from next week with full capacity, today there is a session of the Colleges which Mr. Zvizdić has scheduled to agree on at what pace it will work. Then delegate everything you think, what you think you need to talk about, and we'll talk about it here with arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4634	Thank you, Deputy Deputy. Dear Representative Šarović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4635	Dear Chairman, members of the College, distinguished colleagues. The SDS and PDP Club has initiated this special session by asking that this item, which is in the draft agenda, be put here today in front of you in this emergency procedure and we remain in that position whether today was the only item of the agenda or events and some other points, and we will give our reasons why we asked for it, why we think that the conditions have been met. I wouldn't talk about it right now, but I'd say that if there are, of course, business opportunities and if there's enough of those who would support that initiative, we're not running away from it, and we're wishing, of course, to discuss it. Here, and these other two important issues that my colleagues from the club spoke about, but also some other honourable MPs, because we think that one and the other issue is extremely important, a particular issue that concerns yesterday's session of the BiH Presidency, where there are many strangers, we see it from our discussions, this issue is fundamentally very important for the whole country. We probably have deep differences in this document and we think differently and we interpret it differently, which is quite understandable, and including the MPs who come from Republika Srpska, we face a different discussion of it by believing that some acts of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska have been injured. Therefore, if there is the possibility of a business being found on the agenda, we strongly support it, if not, I think that we too would be part of this initiative that would ask that this issue be put on a special session within the deadline provided for by the Rules of Procedure, of course, that we can get any information bearing in mind that we have heard that the document is locked and that it cannot be reached. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4636	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Borenović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4637	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, as you have said, should be announced by a member, Article 7. – participation in the work. That's what I'm gonna say. I'm not gonna say it again. Although I have not voted for you chairman, I think it is good that you have allowed MPs, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to say their views, their expectations and to make their demands. It is the essential role of this Parliament. Article 7(2) is clear, the MP has the right and the duty to attend the meeting of the House and the session of the Committee of the House whose member he is. He participates in their work and is committed to finding a solution and decision-making that ensures the exercise of constitutional powers of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This member and this attitude all say how much it takes and how necessary it is not to take these chairs exclusively as a privilege, but also as a duty and obligation. As it's written here, we're looking for solutions and we're proposing decisions, but we can't look for solutions and we can't propose decisions if we don't know what the documents are in, what the contents of these documents are, and then we'll come into this situation where everyone will interpret it in their own way. If anyone should have access to all information, especially regarding the constitutional arrangement of this country, on key political and social issues, it's this House, so we're just looking for it. Give us a document that caused huge attention yesterday, not to the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but to the whole region and to the world. It concerns military integration, the submission of acts that activate the Action Plan for NATO membership, and we want to know what it says inside. We do not give qualifications of another species at all, but only to know what this is about and it is absolutely logical, justified, normal, initiative and request of the SDP parliamentary club, as is the perfectly logical and normal request of an esteemed colleague of Arnaut to say and to ask what is going on with the Commission of Investigation, and I, too, am also proposed in it. I have questions that are going in the direction – what are you doing in the Investigation Commission that you brought to the conclusion and which should say and give a certain answer to what is happening to the BiH judiciary? So don't close our eyes to the problems we're facing, so I think that's something that's bad, that's devastating for everyone, no matter how many individual examples you have of people who want to show that they're willing to go to these questions and don't make a selective approach that's on one side 18, and on the other 24. It's not good, we're all equal in our work, we all really have equal opportunities, we all really need, we really need to respect this member in which each of us has Full equal rights regardless of which party, from which coalition, from which group comes, and in particular whether the opposition or government [[the speaker is warned on time]] [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4638	Thank you very much. MP Mektić reportedly, however, for the third time, cannot correct the wrong allegations. We are moving on to the discussion of the esteemed representative Kojović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4639	I thank the chairman. I welcome the chairman, all my colleagues and colleagues. For the first time in this House, I must admit that I am unusually surprised by the fact that the Rules of Procedure is treated as an allegory and is subject to so much interpretation. To tell you the truth, by reading article 68 that says, it talks about calling an emergency session and setting the agenda at the session itself, I hope we can agree that this is what we've done in the past hour and a half. What I really, uh, wanted to remind you of, I think, when, here, already the Rules of Procedure is treated as an allegory, to remind you, as I would say, of an old English proverb that says that Parliament can have anything but children. 24 So, this is the most legislative body and you know it and as head of executive power, now and the head of the legislative authority to put us in a position to make extremely important decisions, and if we didn't have all the decisions, it would be, as I would say, unfairly towards the citizens and towards this country, and especially, as I would say, to the participants who should do so. You scheduled a meeting of the Commission for the appointment of the Council of Ministers in two hours. The political conflict over what is now called the document was the reason we didn't work and had executive power for a year. I want to ask you -- do you think it's okay that we, 42 people representing 3 and a half million citizens of this country, can make decisions that are related to the formation of the Council of Ministers without having any insight into the document on which it is made possible? I'm just, as I say, really interested in the next thing – how can we know that the information, this document, will be taken into account before we're forced to make decisions about the Council, to form a Council of Ministers? So, that's the most, I think, friendly request, is, that you don't put us in a situation where on committees, we don't talk about sittings of this House, on committees, that we don't make decisions, and that we don't have information that we think is crucial, and since you've already scheduled at two o'clock, I honestly don't see how that's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4640	Thank you very much. I appreciate, of course, every suggestion and advice. It's just, the correction, here's what I'm saying, I didn't schedule that commission, I'm not a member of that commission. If you are a member of the Commission, you will do so on that Commission when and if it is held to discuss this hypothetical issue that you have asked. We still have a respected MP, Mektić, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I hope we end this part of today's debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4641	Thank you, Chairman. I'm referring to Article 7. Rules of Procedure on the work of this Parliament which speaks of the participation of Members in the work. First of all, I would like to agree and thank you for giving us this opportunity to talk today and to talk, of course, it's all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it's not a matter of your goodwill, because we want to do, and we don't want what a National MP from the National Assembly told us -- you're there not to do, I mean Srđan Mazalica...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4642	Excuse me, which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, will you tell us?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4643	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4644	Which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4645	7
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4646	Seven? 25 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4647	Position (2), which therefore said – you are sent there to do nothing and when you do nothing, then you are the best earner of your salary. And I'd just like to look back on Mr. Radmanović's discussion when he tried, let's just say, A little bit of an explanation, this situation regarding NATO to a title that it says – Radmanović considered in 2009 that... [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4648	Please, this is...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4649	NATO is crucial to Bosnia and Herzegovina...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4650	There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 7(2). So what Mr Radmanović said in 2009 has nothing to do with the position (2) of Article 7. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4651	...right to work and to participate in the work.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4652	But on the agenda. The agenda of today's session...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4653	Well, that's the agenda, I'm talking in context...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4654	No, amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, it is not the agenda Mr Radmanović said, please stick to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4655	I am speaking in the context of a proposal for a new agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4656	I'll allow it one more time, next time I'll interrupt the MPs when you don't follow the Rules of Procedure. Please, nice please. So I showed one broad relationship and patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4657	...the agenda points related to obtaining information related to this yesterday's Bureau agreement. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4658	So, you're not proposing that point, the one who was proposing explained it...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4659	... I'm taking part in...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4660	No, when the point is adopted and adopted, then you can participate in the discussion of that agenda point. Please, stick to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 7 (2) has nothing to do with Mr Radmanović or with the reform programme.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4661	As Mr. Radmanović went out for a pay phone and had the right to say what he did in 2009, and what he didn't do in 2009, and I have no right to answer and to say that that's not true what he said. Let me just read one sentence and finish, and it is reportedly a letter from Mr. Radmanović that he sent to NATO in 2009 in which he says – above all, we underlined our desire to become a full member of NATO, which is of strategic importance for Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to the initial letter signed by the chairman then. BiH Presidency today [[the speaker is warned on time]] SNSD Vice-President and State Parliamentary Nebojša Radmanović [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4662	Thank you, but next time, don't put me in a position to take away my word, I don't want to, you're my colleagues, and I think I've shown a great width in today's discussion and you've all had a chance to talk. Let us not abuse any injury or correction to the wrong assumption. The esteemed deputy, Mr. Radmanović, is correcting the wrong allegations. ... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4663	I'm sure ladies and gentlemen that no one was surprised when Dragan Mektić said this and exactly what I was saying in my debate was entirely about him. So there are people who can't read yet, and unfortunately they've become parliamentarians in this country. Everything he said is completely incorrect and everyone knows it's wrong and everybody knows that this is what he's been talking about for many years before he even knew about this and it has to be fixed. Please chairman, please all...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4664	Correction of the false quote to the letter he read.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4665	...yes. No, I specifically referred to a member of the Rules of Procedure last time, and now I'm talking about the wrong quote of yours. 27 Once again I pray to all the messengers that we may return to the established part of the agenda, to what you have sought, and to what the chairman has granted you, and to somehow bring this session to an end without the turning out of people who do not know what they are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4666	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mektić. A member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4667	Seven. [[Common discussion]] Mr. Radmanović, you may be sorry or negligent, a little, a lot, as much as you like, as I am an MP in the House of Representatives here, but to remind you that in the Banja Luka electoral unit about 30,000 people in the Banja Luka region voted for me...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4669	Please, I'm reading Article 7 of Article (2). There's no Banja Luka constituency anywhere. Mr. Košarac, correction of the wrong allegations, and indeed, believe me, I will no longer allow a word to anyone who does not specify exactly, and precisely, which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4670	Thank you, Chairman. The correction of the wrong allegation refers to Mr Šarović's findings and discussion. First of all, I would like to say that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law and Rules of Procedure, passed a law, or resolution on military neutrality. It is a fact, as is the fact that members of a political party whose representative Šarović left the National Assembly session when decisions were discussed and made in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. And there is no need to worry too much about whether in some act adopted yesterday there is military neutrality brought by the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and that you are now worrying and calling for the fact that it is incorporated. I'm sure it is. On the other hand, you respect the conclusions of the National Assembly and the care of the document, and the National Assembly of Republika Srpska has concluded that there is no procedure for amending the Rules of Procedure, so after the conclusion you entered into the procedure again. Therefore, you do not worry about military neutrality, you do not worry about the conclusions of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, you worry about your comfortable chairs and the processes you conduct. And on the other hand, the zakon of Defense adopted in 2005, to remind the public of the SDS and the PDP were in power, the truth, in one part there was also a group of MPs from the SNSD, according to 28, there are things completely clear and there is no need to talk today because there are absolutely no findings and your false concern about whether the views of the National Assembly are respected. We've said it multiple times, and in the end, quite frankly, we've said that AMP can't be a condition and that we won't support it. Neither... nor any AMP. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And finally, I think that when it comes to NATO aggression on the Republika Srpska, it should be said that this was the first act of NATO aggression and, this military alliance, we are not giving up on our views on this issue, in the end, the government recently made a decision. about the deaths of the population of NATO aggression. [[the speaker is warned on time]] On the other hand, these days we're doing a monument in East Sarajevo and the third thing, of course...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4671	Agenda, agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4672	...here, and of course, since Serbia was also bombed, and far ahead of Republika Srpska in research and the consequences of NATO aggression by nature logically that international expertise and together to resolve these issues with Serbia, not to insult someone, not to irritate someone, but simply to come to valid conclusions and attitudes. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4673	Thank you. Representative Mektić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is he a member of the 7th?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4674	No, I don't. It is only the first number 7, the second number 9, so Article 79, which says – measures in the event of non-compliance with the order or Rules of Procedure, so Article 79(5) of the chairman, indent under a) says – under the disregard of order, the insult of MPs and others present is meant. Mr Radmanović told the speaker that some MPs here would or may not know how to read the Rules of Procedure by alluding to me in this situation, and I would once again tell Mr Radmanović that I had read well the article 79th insult of MPs and others present. I know how to read to Mr. Radmanović and I know it's your problem that I know how to read it. As far as I know, you're a history teacher, and I'm not sure how much you know as a historian and as much as I know from that profession of yours, a history professor, I think you've spent your whole life on a state manger.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4675	Thank you. Dear Representative Šarović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4676	Dear Ambassador Košarac, you worry about your concern, we will do ours, but the concern for Republika Srpska is both yours and ours, no matter how many of us we are here and we will probably discuss it and 29 we have discussed possible this point, if not today, probably in two, three days. I'm not saying anything, sure it stands in that document, but it's probably unusual that we don't have an insight into it until a certain moment. We'll see if it's given up military neutrality, and you and I here, after this House or someone else. We will see if it has given up where Serbia, there and Republika Srpska are. You, and rightly so, have suggested and initiated certain conclusions to the National Assembly, and whether we were, whether we left, whether you voted it or not, now we're going to face it, both of us, and all the other discussions will be left for that time, you of course with your position, us with your own. I think that's fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4677	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. We're closing the debate. In consultation with my colleagues from the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, we believe that we should continue today's agenda on the basis of the agenda point you received in the call and which was in the base of the emergency session request. All other points, of course, are considered extremely important and important. I also personally think that also, here, let's say, this commission we're talking about, the Investigation, should be, therefore, defined in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, built and started working, but we don't think there's any relevant material in writing for the new points of the agenda. So we're going to the agenda point that was on call, Ad. 1. Proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which was requested by the initiator to be considered by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure The legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on 15 November on the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure that it is in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. I'm opening my first debate on an emergency malt procedure with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. So, the debate is about a request for an emergency procedure. Here you go. So, does anyone report for a hearing with an emergency procedure request in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives regarding the agenda point? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4680	I thank the chairman. 30 Here I did not want to report to the debate on the agenda of the emergency session, which we had a proposal for the agenda of this amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, because, of course, I felt that each representative, including the groups, was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, legitimately entitled to propose certain amendments, including amendments to the Rules of Procedure, and that the chairman, again in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, appreciated whether this emergency session should be called or not. Of course, what I should say about this point in terms of content and content, and also in terms of what is now urgent, we are now first discussing the importance of urgency, and then about the changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I will say that in this initiative which has been delivered in terms of the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure, unambiguously, let me say, legally-technically processed that there is a constitutional basis, that it has its reasons and explanations as individual amendments and additions that are proposed. Why did I bring this up? For the reason that indeed the Rules of Procedure and both, means, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in this case the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which we are talking about when it comes to amendments and additions, are, in fact, in accordance with the legal law of the Act behind the Constitution of BiH, and you know that in our Rules of Procedure, when it comes to procedures and everything else, it is directly based not only on constitutional justification, but also on content and procedures. I therefore believe that this amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure, which has been sent to be considered in an urgent procedure at this time, has no reason to do so. The reasons set out here say that the main reason why the procedure for adopting amendments and supplementing the Rules of Procedure is the inability to set up permanent committees of the House of Representatives by applying the existing provisions of the Rules of Procedure, thus preventing normal work and the exercise of the basic legislative function of the House. So I have to say that, so, no matter what, I'm sorry, too, I can say here, that we were all in a situation that our legislative authority didn't actually work for a full year. But at this point, there are no reasons for urgency. What is there is, and I have in some way initiated this in the interview with the chairman, but of course I respect that everyone uses their business rights, when we received proposals for the composition of permanent committees as members of the College, we had to meet immediately and make a proposal for the composition of committees in accordance with Article 30. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and, of course, to arrange a regular session at which they would appoint these permanent committees and all that was provided for once scheduled 2nd session of the House of Representatives after, therefore, the constitution when we delayed it together because of the absence of business conditions. Furthermore, not to mention, I said, that this is an important act and that there is no reason for the urgency that there may indeed be hundreds of reasons about the contents of the Rules of Procedure, and even today's debate shows that there may be some provisions that need to be changed, precise etc. but the normal procedure for amending the Rules of Procedure would be to form a committee of this House in which all clubs and independent representatives will be represented and to discuss it, because it is indeed an act that should simply be based on something that will work for this Bosnia and Herzegovina and will reflect the current spirit and state, that is, compliance with the existing Constitution of BiH. I don't think that any other solution is a single contribution to peace, or stability to political, or to each other when it comes to both Bosnia and Herzegovina, and maybe they're not even a contribution to the legislative power in which it should be. Therefore, here is the thinking of everyone, I believe that this is certainly not a matter of urgency, and therefore I will say my personal position, and also the position of the HDZ Club, that we will not support the proposal to discuss it in an urgent procedure, nor the content of the amendments and additions to the said Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4681	Thank you very much. 31 Arnaut the Honorable representative, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4682	The chairman, a colleague of Magazinović and I, even before Mrs. Kristo for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, said that you are giving, the chairman gives a word to the MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately after he has asked for it. And don't, please, repeat this more to see that there's a request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that you skip aimly, so that's a priority. None of your predecessors in that chair have violated this fundamental principle and I am asking you not to repeat this again. As for my request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, for the record, it is very clear that you have violated Rule 68. A Rules of Procedure which makes it very clear how the agenda is established at the emergency session, as well as Article 71. A Rules of Procedure which does not distinguish between emergency and regular sessions, which allows for the proposal of new points. And speaking of Mrs. Krišto findings on how the Rules of Procedure is just behind the Constitution, your practice here varies again. This is the first session since June 26th and we have a completely different practice. You put on June 26th, it was also urgent, you put all the proposals on new points, even Lovrinovic's request to take down that one item of the agenda, you put it all to the vote, now you refused to put it to the vote. So nothing in the Rules of Procedure has changed in these six months and then it is absolutely unclear and unwarranted that different practice when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4683	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Magazinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4684	If I were not to take up your time and do not repeat what Arnaut said, so it is not disputed that you as Kolega have a certain attitude, but it would be good if that attitude were consistent, because Mrs Krišto acted differently at the same thing in the last session, giving the opportunity to make a statement about Mr Lovrinović's proposal, using the same Rules of Procedure, I think she did well. So I would also give you, Mr. Lovrinović, the opportunity to make a statement about your proposal, so here's just to keep a little bit of that, that one line you take as Kolega, and we have other methods of defending our position. And so, if it goes with logic, even what my colleague Begić was saying today, I told him there's some logic in that, this extraordinary, regular session, but let's make it clear to the Rules of Procedure, while he's the way he is.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4685	Thank you very much. So he answered for the discussion, the esteemed representative Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4686	I thank the chairman. 32 A warm greeting to all present in the hall, I did not take part in the debate on the agenda, I sincerely expected that the College, in accordance with Article 72, would give us representatives the opportunity to declare ourselves to the proposed points of the agenda, as has been the practice so far. I don't know why the College changed that practice, but it's not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4687	A debate has been launched on the request for an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 133.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4688	Yes, but the chairman would allow for a very short minute, two minutes because I didn't take time at the beginning to discuss the agenda, I thought that you would stick to the Rules of Procedure, that we would plead on every proposed item of the agenda, you didn't do it, and then I have to, I'm better at this discussion to intervene and say my position than to lead in another way of debate. So, I expected you to do it, you didn't do it, I support the proposed agenda points, because they are legitimate, according to the Rules of Procedure, and we should have made the same statements, so we don't later make unnecessary costs by calling back emergency sessions, because everything we do this year is all urgent, so this is the 3rd emergency session. And why don't we have regular sessions, I ask the question of college, why don't we have regular sessions? Well, because we don't have regular sessions, we're in an emergency session, and that's why it's urgent, and this is on the agenda. Why did it come to the agenda urgently? To unblock Parliament's work. We haven't worked in a year, gentlemen. First of all, I address the College who had an obligation to create all assumptions that I, as an agent, could exercise the rights and responsibilities in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You made it impossible for us, and as you did not react then a group of MPs responded with the proposed amendment and therefore I all the time support it and I feel that it was very urgent long ago, it was urgent, we should have reacted as soon as the deadlines for the Rules of Procedure were broken when the commissions were not formed and here I regret that I did not work harder and more intensively to unblock Parliament's work. But it is not my duty to unblock Parliament's work as a representative, but it is a duty in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the College. My colleagues are the only ones in charge of making assumptions about the work of this distinguished House.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4689	Is this a contribution to the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4690	How come you didn't do it then it was
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4691	Is this a contribution to the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4692	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4693	Is this a contribution to the debate on the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4694	I justify the urgency, urgency of today's session and agenda that has come urgently to this session. So, I believe that the reasons for the urgency are entirely justified, that we had to identify 33 long earlier the weaknesses of the Rules of Procedure and supplement the Rules of Procedure or amend the Rules of Procedure in a way that this House can work and that no one can block the work of this House in a way that I have a political decision so I will block the Dom to work. As a representative in this House, I have the rights and obligations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 7 repeatedly quoted it today, attitude (2) but the College also had the responsibility and competence to create assumptions for the work of this House. As you have not done so, it is entirely justified that we do so today and I hope that these changes and additions, which have a legitimate urgency to resolve this, that they will be adopted today and that we will no longer be in this situation to take away this brutally from me as a representative of the right to work in accordance with the Constitution, the Law and the Rules of Procedure in this distinguished House, because I have received the trust. I'm not here because I'm here on my own, but I'm here in front of citizens who are looking for problems to be solved. Problems in this country can't be solved if we don't have regular sessions. How do we get to regular sessions? So that the College may prepare them and call them to the College. Since you don't, then we have to intervene, and we just did it in an emergency procedure completely justified by the laws, we have a positive view of the legislative sector, I don't think there's any dilemma that we are considering today and adopting the proposed amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4695	I agree, thank you. Representative Borenović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4696	Thank you, Chairman. With regard to Article 133, which speaks of the urgency of the procedure, a few sentences. It is truly inappropriate that after 11 months of failing to work this House of Parliament, we listen to convictions that there is no reason for an emergency procedure. 11 months of Parliament standing, nothing happens, three hundred different agenda points are in MPs' clubs, almost 50 different financial value agreements I don't even know how many hundreds of millions of converting marks, because it's very difficult to calculate. Over 160 audit reports, over 60 reports on the work of various institutions, dozens of laws, and every seven days we listen to one and the same story, and in five days, in ten, for the month, and in August, and in late August, and in early September, and believe that as serious and responsible people, we ultimately made a decision to propose a way for Parliament to function and our only option was to do so by emergency procedure. You know that we do not have other opportunities as MPs who have not supported the selection of the Kolegijum, the leadership of Parliament, which reflects the assembly majority gathered around three political parties, and therefore with our people, who are dealing with this legal matter, we have proposed a solution that is only possible, only logically, only in any case, does not affect essential matters regarding the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary House of BiH and concerns only speeding up procedures when it comes to the lack of parliamentary clubs or MPs and indolent behaviour of the Kolegijum. And that is why this is the only solution that is possible at this point and which should stand and tomorrow if my parliamentary club happens to reach out for this measure so that it will not be punished by a parliamentary club from Republika Srpska or vice versa, which may, at some point, be able to meet all the standards set by the Rules of Procedure with its capacity. Why the urgency? Well, just because we had it as our only option. See when the document was received in office, 07.11. was sent to, according to the services of the Parliamentary House of BiH. You did, when you got it at that moment, in due time, 34 indeed did, within three days you called this session. So we would be very insecure, unfair and hypocritical if we caught these games of cats and mice where there's no telling who's going to cheat, who's being dishonest to someone, and that's why we stayed on our proposal that's completely legitimate, he's been suggested to go into emergency procedures and we have no intention of changing anything because we'd become part of the kind of political structures that do it on a regular basis, something they suggest and pull, and even adopt, and then give up, so regular, well, wait a little bit of this market or this is a serious institution. Is this, uh, are we people here who change our mind every half hour? I understand the views of all parliamentary groups, all clubs, everyone has a legitimate right to speak their mind, to support, not to support. But we have the right, the four of us, to propose a way to unblock Parliament's work and to say if someone doesn't want to work, okay, don't, don't, it's your strategy. If the Kolegijum won't meet the business standard, which is very precise, then the House will do so by respecting both Article 6 and Article 7 but, in particular, Article 30, which we'll probably talk about a lot about, so that's our obligation, we have a duty to our people. Well, I guess we have some kind of character, too, so I guess we have to justify, 12 months of pay, 12 months of playing, 12 months of playing, and then we have to make another call, why do you work? You can imagine what a two-faced policy it is, attacking someone who wants to work and even inviting him to continue his boycott. We have introduced one, in my opinion, very bad practice, I cannot say a sick being too difficult, but we are sending a message to citizens, to people, to people – don't work, don't like to be paid, sit down, if we are doing it here in Parliament, you should do the same. What kind of message we send to the private sector in this country and the people who work in the private sector, if this kind of practice is already insulted in the public sector, don't work because if it's not working there, it's getting paid, so if we have people, have any, do we have any dignity in ourselves. What kind of behavior model is that? There's a practice to break, and that's why it's an emergency procedure to interrupt it once and send a message that this behavior cannot be tolerated, it's not good, it's not healthy... it's normal, so it's not normal to brag about it and call for it not to work, because it's not like it's a protection of interest. Whose interest? We were chosen by four here, these two lists, 250,000 citizens, five pardons, five, two lists of five MPs, 250,000 citizens, a quarter of millions who didn't ask us to, to play in the halls and watch who was going to cheat, deceive and who was going to grab that damn chair, but they chose to answer the key questions. Some of them are here, and they're gonna stand there all the time. When it comes to the Electoral Law, which, it needs urgent procedure, and the situation in the judiciary, and it's an emergency procedure and public media, and it's an emergency procedure, everything here has come to have to and to work on an emergency procedure, because there is no time. The earth is empty, hundreds of thousands of people are gone, and we suddenly remembered how now there is after a year time for regular procedures. Well, you know, we're going to name a permanent commission, of course we're going to name it, but this is our answer legitimately and clearly to the venison, to the negligentness, to the indiscipline, and everything else that's been introduced as a practice, as someone said in the highest legislative home of a country. If it's introduced here then it's become a practice throughout the country and don't be mad at us tomorrow why our productivity is small, why people don't work, why they come to work at 8:00 p.m. Why no one, the culture of work, so we're to blame for it, here I'm saying all in general, we feel the obligation to do something and we do it and we stand behind it, attack all you want, attack as much as you want because I know what Mr. Radmanović said, well he said – ten times the repeated lie becomes true. With you, it's a hundred times a repeated lie becomes true, it's well known to us, but it doesn't matter every lie has its own lie, its own truth, so eventually it'll come to what's the ultimate epilogue, the result. The result of the government is such, we bear responsibility for what we have done, the result of opposition MPs is such that we have proposed several emergency sessions, we have proposed several important topics, you have all considered them completely irrelevant and migrant crisis, and the judiciary, and the work of Parliament, it is irrelevant for you because it has been proposed by us. Anything you offer well will be supported, I tell you now, in an emergency or in a regular procedure, all support what is good, will be from us, will get a vote for. Anything that is bad, of course, that we won't, but you're expected to act that way, if the 35 proposal is good, correct, objective, no matter how much someone's wrong or not, you need it for future time. Maybe this situation... maybe tomorrow your party, the chairman, will say for some reason, so if it was practice in 2018, why don't we do something similar in 2022 or my party. I think the reason for the emergency procedure was the only possible, and everything else would be pure politics, cowardice and escape from the reality and state we're in today.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4697	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the Košarac, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4698	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here I would say that there really is a lot of illogicalness in this country, 11 months have not been implemented election results, 11 months deny the election will of the citizens and the peoples of this country, right. Then we fell for... that something House of Representatives was blocking and that the problem was standing in the House of Representatives. It is not true, 11 months are a blockade in the Bureau to elect the chairman's council of ministers, and we'll agree, we didn't get a name. 11 months, I have no intention of offending anyone personally, we have 4 ministers, or 3 ministers, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers who are also MPs and in the current session and whether there is anything else in some countries of parliamentary democracy. _________(?) There's... [[no microphone turned on]] And then, that's true, and then someone says that a process has been blocked in a way that certain names have not been delivered. Yes, in one segment, but the process was unblocked in the office on 15.11. This document was received on 18.11. I will repeat the conclusion of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. I am a three-term member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the only one from Republika Srpska to renew my mandate in the House of Representatives and I tell you, I do not believe that in the BiH Parliament any document that is being submitted to the office for 11 days has never been such a practice. I mean, like I said in the beginning. There was no need for an emergency session, I think there is a reasonable reason for the Rules of Procedure to be changed in a regular procedure in a way to determine which anomalies are the Rules of Procedures of the House of Representatives, there are many of them, and that we do so in accordance with Mrs. Krišto's proposal and which she said, is chosen. [[the speaker is warned on time]] A commission working on it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And finally, don't talk too much about credibility, it's not the SNSD that blocks the process of establishing government at a common level, the credibility of our policies confirms election results. Compared to your political party, Mr. Borenović, the SNSD won 180 thousand votes more for the House of Representatives than for the SDS It speaks of the attitude of citizens to our policies, but I think that if we go in this way to the amendments to the Rules of Procedure we will enter into a political adventure that we will never be able to correct, because once the rule is made here we can hardly make it [[the speaker is warned on time]] We warned you not to do so all along. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Of course, your 36, I apologize to the chairman, your capacity in committees is unquestioned, there is exactly a mathematical operation that determines your number of mandates and we absolutely do not deny it, on the contrary, but let us not go into political adventure and in this way change the Rules of Procedure, it will become a practice that we may not have a way to prevent in some foreseeable time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4700	Thank you. I think it was best that we voted on an emergency procedure, so in the matter of the Rules of Procedure that we had discussions, but okay. Dear Representative Begić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4701	Dear colleagues and colleagues, without intending to repeat myself and take too much time, I think that today there is no more important question than this, there is no more important question, and all these issues that have been raised by esteemed colleagues and colleagues during this session, which are also very important, depends on the previous resolution of this issue. So the only thing worse than the worst government is that there's no government at all, and that's what we've had in the last year. With all this personal feeling of shame and what we're experiencing in public, it might impote someone, maybe someone thinks it's a struggle for something, but I think that because of what we've had for the past year, the most people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, no matter where they live, no matter where they live, no matter what entity, no matter what canton. And that will end, I would also remind myself of one position of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of France that was adopted in the 1990s, when due to certain situations in the internal life of a large democratic country, it is said that the elected representative only has legitimacy as he moves within the borders of the Constitution and what the Constitution prescribes, as soon as he goes beyond these limits he loses both his legality and, in particular, his legitimacy. I think that in this year we have broken our own legitimacy, now I would not go into the reasons at all, mostly this part of the opposition and these people who signed this, I consider it to be a completely good intention, a systemic solution to all future situations, and we support both emergency procedures and the proposal itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4702	Thank you very much. In fact, I suggest that we plead for an emergency procedure, so that in the discussions, you can discuss amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, if that's okay with you. [[Common discussion]] Okay, thank you. So, I invite you to come forward with an emergency procedure. Let the voting process be started. So the total vote was 26 for, so we have the general majority. From the Federation of BiH – 21 for, 5 against and abstention 1, is not present 1. From RS – 5 for, against 37 ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4709	There's no, there's no... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4710	Okay, no breaks, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4711	There's no pause when it's voiced. [[/excessive discussion.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4712	So, I am voting on the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Here you go. So the total vote was 27 for. From the Federation of BiH – 22 for, 5 against ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Do you have a problem? We'll repeat the vote, please. Repeat the vote. I hope everything's okay now? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-11-20-0.u4717	Just a line of notes, a continuation of the constitutional session of the Committee for the Preparation of the Council of Ministers' Elections in Chamber 2/II immediately, here after completion. Thank you. Session completed at 14:25 p.m.
