ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and international institutions, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 3rd session of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Custodial of BiH. There are 14 envoys present, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serbian people. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Mr. Bosić Mladen is not present today's session for justified reasons. For the 3rd session, I propose the next agenda of the Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Selection of members of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH: 2.1. The Constitutional Commission, 2.2. Commissions for Finance and Budget, 2.3. Commissions on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone picking up? Any changes and additions to the proposed agenda? Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u56	Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u57	Denis Bećirović signed up. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in February, that is, in March of this year, we took an oath to work in this House in accordance with the BiH Constitution, the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. I don't think it makes any sense, and I'd say it's not even responsible that after almost nine months of time and expensively paid labour and the House of Peoples, we have a agenda like this. So at the beginning of this session I want to ask publicly – is there anyone here 2 and in the College of the House of Peoples and among delegates who can say whether any member of the Constitution of BiH, any law, Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples, the Ethics Code, or so on allows to take a break of almost nine months, or that nine months after its establishment, the House of Peoples is not working? Given this fact, I propose a new agenda point in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I propose, therefore, that this item of the agenda be read – Determining responsibility for the unhappiness of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the constitution to today, which refers to this current meeting, with a special reference to the violation of Articles 8, 19, 23, 30, 55 and 56. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I think that today we must find the strength to be responsible for both voters and citizens and the highest legislative authority, according to the whole public, to discuss these matters and indeed determine what is the reason why Parliament has not worked for almost nine months. We better do it here in the House of Peoples than do it outside the House of Peoples and outside the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I also cited concrete members of the Rules of Procedure who have been broken, reminding among other things that delegates, that delegates have clearly prescribed duties, have not been carried out in the previous nine months. The duties of the chairman are such a character that he also had to call a session
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u59	Mr. Bećirović, your time has expired for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u60	Well, let me get this straight, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u61	Lock it down.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u62	And our Rules of Procedure says that at least once a month we have to have meetings of the House of Peoples. Why wasn't that the case, here to stop, given that time is up, I suggest we find the responsibility to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u63	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u64	and to send a clear message to the public, which is why there was no work at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u65	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović, and I pray you, as well as all of us, to stick to the Rules of Procedure and to this timeline. Mr Bećirović had an addition to the agenda, according to our Rules of Procedure, although it did not come in writing, I suggest we first declare the supplement that Mr Bećirović had overlooked. 3 I ask you to initiate voting procedure. Who is it for us to accept the amendment to the agenda as proposed by Ambassador Bećirović? Please run again after the time is up. Thank you very much. As regards this proposal of 14 present - two deputies voted for the proposal, against 12, abstentions, there is no one and how we have the condition that we do not have a general majority of this draft agenda, i.e. this item of the agenda has not been accepted as such. From the Federation of BiH, it means – for it was 2, versus 8, there were no abstentions. Republika Srpska had four votes against it. Here's a review of the vote on this agenda point. Thank you very much. Since the agenda, which you received with the call for the session, remains the same, I suggest we continue on this agenda. Thank you. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is there anyone to apply for a hearing? If not, we are voting on the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please initiate the voting process. Thank you very much. I'm finding out from 14 present – for it was 14, so then we don't need to particularly emphasize the entity vote, we all were, or, here we insist that we publish that too. So, from the Federation of BiH -- for 10, no one against, no abstention. From Republika Srpska – for 4, no one against, nor abstention. We have the general majority and the entity majority. Thank you very much. It notes that we have adopted the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you. We're moving on to the second point of today's session, Ad. 2. Selection of members of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH: 2.1. Imprisonment, 2 / 22 Commissions on Finance and Budgets and 2.3. Commissions on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u68	Thank you very much to the President, I welcome you, Madam Deputy, I welcome my fellow Members and fellow envoys and delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, all present in the hall, and I particularly welcome the members of our Secretariat and thank you for having prepared, within two days, two sessions. 5 My objection or, if you wish to make a finding, first of all, concerns the infringement of Rules of Procedure and Articles 66 or 11.1. of Article 11 or Article 4.2. Actually, what's this about? Not to mention the Code of Conduct here, probably also a violation of the article or article 4.5. The Codex, given the fact that no one has informed me in any way, or asked whether I am for this commission, whether I have simply, whether I meet any conditions to participate in the work of that committee or not. I can understand the fact that someone deliberately put me there, but I can't really get over the fact that no one has informed me about it until today. What would our esteemed club president ask, if there's a possibility that it's not done like that anymore, I beg you, so first of all I want us to respect each other if we're all equally important here. If that happens the second time, I will take the right to react in another way as individuals violate the Codex and Rules of Procedure, then so will I. What I want to say to you and to ask you, in any case in the context of the discussion, Mr Bećirović, I accept the work of this committee, I will work in any way, but I do not think this is a collegiate and correct way, I ask you to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u69	Thank you, Mr. Miletić. Since there has been no objection to the committee's very call, we appreciate this general remark and thank you for your comment. Yeah,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u70	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u71	I'm sorry, Denis Bećirović also answered the question. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u72	Mr. Chairman, I really don't know if he has ever been one of the homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in such a small session and in such a short time reached for such a massive violation of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House in this case. I don't think that's a good message, that you need to get back to business regulations as soon as possible. It's clear here that you have the majority to vote for anything, but try not to commit any form of legal and business violence. Neither I nor my colleague Miletić can compete here in the field of quantity, but at least we can make it very clear what the facts are and what the arguments are. That's why I invite you, no matter who makes and how many parliamentary majority here and in the House of Peoples, to try to still make the main criterion here are facts and arguments, not simple voting alone.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-20-1.u73	Thank you, fellow Bećirović. Since the debates on this agenda have been exhausted, I suggest we initiate the voting procedure. I find that out of the 14 present, it was 13, versus 1, a abstention of no one. From the Federation of BiH – for 9.1 against, abstentioned no one. From Republika Srpska – 4 for, no one abstentioned or against. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. 6 I agree that we have reached a decision on the appointment of members of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We formally and realized the agenda of today’s session. Since we at the College have agreed to hold today an extraordinary session after this, I would ask the members of individual committees to immediately approach the establishment of a session of these permanent committees. Given that we have a number of envoys in multiple committees, I would ask you to organise it somehow and today again according to the Rules of Procedure, but let's do it at a shorter time interval. The idea was that already at 10:30, which is impossible now, we continue, so I suggest that we may continue fifteen to eleven so that we can reach all other obligations, because the second session is quite a dynamic agenda to catch up with everything the House of Representatives formally adopted at the last session and when it comes to budget reports, budgets and agreements that we have very much today. So, the application is to immediately gather and at least these two committees whose agenda today is fully tied to the session, it is the Committee for Finance and Budget and the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Connections, because from these domains the agenda is these next sessions, let us try to urgently and establish and discuss the material for this session that we have agreed on. It's an apology that we're doing this time, but it's a desire to catch up with everything we've missed in the past tense. Thank you very much, and that concludes the 3rd session of the House of Peoples. Session completed at 10:25 p.m.
