ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-24-0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers if there are any, and the International Community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the first emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I agree that six delegates, i.e. five from the Bosniak people, one from the Croatian people and no one from the Serbian people attend the session. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Obviously, we don't have a quorum, so that's where we should refer to Article 63. A Rules of Procedure that says the quorum makes up 9 delegates on condition that at least 3 Bosniak, 3 Croatian and 3 Serb delegates are present. So, we don't have a quorum and I don't think we're going to have it after the break, because I am from my colleagues from the College, Mr Špirić and Mr Čović, therefore, the acts in which Mr Špirić claims that today's session was called against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples. Mr. Čović thinks alike, he thinks we had to have an agreement on today's session and thinks this is a one-sided move on my part. I think I'm a member of 58. The Rules of Procedure obliges me to convene a session within three days when a certain number, prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, so the delegate asks me, and that I did not do so, that he would then do contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples and that it would then be a unilateral move. Anyway, no matter what, here's the prognosis that we won't even have a break quorum, I'm obliged to take a break and give a break from 15 minutes when we're going to continue with the session. I'll see you in 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]] I find that unfortunately we do not have the necessary quorum to continue working and deciding at the House session, so that the session cannot be held. Thank you for your presence. Session aborted at 5:30.
