ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4023	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the second emergency session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence from the session was justified by Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić and Bosnia and Herzegovina's Finance and Treasury Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda, also foreign trade and economic relations minister Mr Mirko Šarović, reported that due to earlier commitments they were unable to attend the 2nd emergency session of the House. The secretary of defense, Ms. Marina Pendeš, also made a justification from the session. I find the session at this point, that there are 28 MPs present, which means the session has a quorum to work on, but at this point I don't realize it has any choice. I would like to say that the session has been convened in accordance with Article 27(1)(b) and Article 68. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives at the request of the following representatives: Saša Magazinović, Nermin Nikšić, Branislav Borenović, Dragan Mektić, Jasmin Emrić, Nada of Mladina, Damir Arnaut, Predrag Kojović, Edita Đapo, Enver Bijedić, Mire Pekić, Mirsad Kukić, Aida Baručija and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. The request for an emergency session with attachments was delivered on 11 June 2019, the said request as well as the attachments to the clubs were sent to you on request. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Nikola Lovrinović called for the debate. You have your word. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4025	Nice greeting from my colleague and colleague, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, the co-chairman, so I welcome everyone in the hall. Here's my pleasure that after a long time we've been here in this hall where we should stay more often. I'm sorry that it was called this way and that it was an extraordinary session and I don't think there was any reason for this sort of thing to be done any other way, but there's that, therefore, it's a business possibility and we're sitting in an extraordinary session of the other, as the chairman said. However, I have observations on the agenda because I think that the point relating to the judiciary is called – the current situation in the judicial institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with an emphasis on the commitments made by the European Commission, I think it is neither mature nor has any 2 special needs for urgency, i.e. to discuss this today at a session called an emergency or emergency session. I suggest, therefore, that this point be taken down, especially because we don't have the material, we don't have the material for this other point as it should be, but respecting the situation we're in when it comes to the second item of the agenda, i.e. migration and problems in this regard, perhaps Parliament should and should discuss this today and in this way, but for this first point indeed, in my opinion, there is no reason for us to discuss this in this way, and in particular to be only the VSTV Report, and in fact this applies to regular sessions and we adopt this in regular sessions and I do not believe that this 2018 report can help us with something special, at least I got it on the agenda. So I would suggest to my colleagues that this be removed from the agenda, but that today we discuss only this problem that concerns migration and problems over the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4026	I'd like to thank the representative. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Damir Arnaut. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4027	I thank the chairman. You see, this is a mandatory item of the agenda because, and the removal of mandatory points is not allowed in accordance with Article 71(1), because Article 70(2) of the Rules of Procedure makes it very clear that the mandatory point which has passed the procedure is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This point is in line with the Rules of Procedure, which has passed the procedure for the need of an emergency session. So it's very clear that this is a mandatory item of the agenda that doesn't allow the download. And one more thing about your findings, the chairman, about the quorum to decide such a term for these more than four years I still haven't been able to find in the Rules of Procedure. So, the term "research quorum" is an arbitrary finding that has no basis either in the BiH Constitution or in the Dom's Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4028	Thank you. I don't know if the honourable representative wants us to interrupt the session right now because we don't have the conditions to interpret the Rules of Procedure that you called for. So, we don't have any special provisions about emergency sessions in the Rules of Procedure, we're told that there's a right to all sessions that the College in the extended composition determines the agenda, as well as regular sessions, and that each session can be complemented and removed. So every MP has the right to do so, and beyond that, we plead on the proposed material in full, as it says in the Rules of Procedure. In order not to interrupt any further discussion at this time, we will try to see if there is room for us to work, so we will not intervene immediately on your first remark and ask for the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure for which we have to interrupt the session, so we will see what will be done in the future. And now representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4029	The Honorable Chairman, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues, the other guests, I warmly welcome you all, and at the beginning, I would like to express my satisfaction for your commitment to hold a session today and hold a debate. I will not repeat what my colleague Arnaut said as much as possible, but I would like to replicate my colleague Lovrinović in terms of his arguments for removing this item of the agenda. He says - the situation is not mature to discuss this. So she didn't, and I agree, she ignored, and she should have talked about this a long time ago. The situation in the judiciary is such that it is more clear to all and not only Bosnia and Herzegovina but also beyond the borders of our country, which is visible from the European Commission's opinion on our application for candidate status that the situation in the judiciary is catastrophic and that this may be the main cause, that is, the foundation of all other problems in this country. So it has become a estranged centre of power, an example of ineffectiveness and the application of politically-oriented processes and other irregularities, and we as the most legislative body of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and how we have an obligation as a legislator in this area to talk and react. I'm extremely sorry that the representatives of the judicial institutions aren't here, some of them are on vacations, and some are on vacations long ago, but I don't think that's what's stopping us from talking. It's not a rush, not that it's five to twelve, but it's twelve and five on both points of the agenda, and I don't know why anyone, I don't know what the political reason or anyone else is to run away from a debate on inefficient justice that has been marked by numerous affairs. And I really ask my colleague Lovrinović to give up this request that again, here I believe is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, but let us let Parliament work, speak, propose. We have the opportunity to adopt these conclusions today, and we can adopt them, if in the second round of voting there is not a majority going to the College, I believe that the conclusions will be such that you in the College will agree with them, but let us let Parliament work and show that we really have some kind of responsibility. Minister Mektić was scheduled to meet with ministers today, his colleagues from the region, cancelled it came here, he is one, he is in double office and as a representative, but also as one of the introductions to this agenda point. People have come from far away to work as long as they can.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4030	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4031	I thank the chairman. Well, you, as chairman, decide not the College, therefore, is a very clear member of Article 76 (1) – the employer is obliged to specify the provision of the Rules of Procedure which have been injured, after which the Chairman of the House will decide on the justification of the objection regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So it's not a college, you're wrong. This one, and if you refuse, if you cannot perform your duty, so we have a vice-president and, and it is prescribed that he will then take the lead session etc. You can only interrupt the sitting if there is no quorum and if you are unable to maintain order, the Rules of Procedure are very clear on this matter. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4032	I understand you've misused business regulations. jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4033	I thank the chairman. I also want to show satisfaction that we are here after half a year in the White Hall, so that citizens can see that we are alive if nothing else and here we are trying to do something, I think it's a good message for citizens to hear that MPs and MPs in the House of Representatives are healthy, that they are alive and that here they express the satisfaction that we finally have a chance to work. Thank you President for calling this 2nd emergency session because two very important and very current points of the agenda have been proposed, and we all have to agree, so I only volunteered to respond to what my colleague Lovrinović said, and this is not the time to discuss this first item of the agenda – the current situation in the judiciary. Here I will just remind myself that, in accordance with the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council is obliged to submit a regular annual report on the situation in the judiciary by May 1st, and that the report is later being discussed by almost all the legislative authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and among other things, the report is being delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. And we debated each year, i.e. on the agenda and discussed the report, and this report was submitted in response, and this report was published on the official website of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which means that it was made, discussed, published and adopted, so there is no reason why we as the representative body of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not, in accordance with the laws of this country, receive this material and do not break it down, and in particular that we do not now single out the context of the nearest events, so we can also say experiences in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the process, etc. But then they'd go into a debate if they'd run it now. So I think it's justified that we have this first item on the agenda and I hope that we will adopt this agenda, or that this point, as a colleague pointed out, cannot be removed from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4034	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4035	Thank you. My correction to the wrong quote refers to a colleague of Saša Magazinović who said the business conditions for this point 1 are met on the agenda. Of course, I absolutely support the holding of this session and I support the finding of these two points on the agenda, but it cannot be attached under point 1 of the Annual Report for 2018 of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, if the point is called – the current situation in the judicial institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with an emphasis on the obligations set out in the recommendations of the European Commission. Why am I saying this? Today I expected to see here, at the very least, the chair of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, which was found, in the "potkivanje“ affair as it is already called, and I think that this is the most important item of the agenda that MPs should discuss today for the reason that one of the key factors of young people leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina is institutional uncertainty, i.e. generating injustice in every segment of social life. And that is why I believe that, I suppose, after the adoption of the agenda, we should ask that it be found here if not the entire composition of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and then at least the chairman of its deputies. I therefore believe that this is a very important issue, perhaps the most important question and, of course, I am surprised that there are no fellow MPs and MPs who are boycotting the work of this session today, because I do not know what's in the way of today, except to carry out their Constitution a certain role, which is to hold, or attend sessions and participate actively in the work of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4036	Thank you very much. Saša Magazinović, representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4037	So, fellow Mehmedović, as a man with a long-standing parliamentary experience, should know, I think he knows that no one, nor did your colleague Mehmedović, was forbidden, as well as your club and your party, to propose any part of the agenda and find any material and suggest. So, you're not responding to this material, you're asking for more. And who told you not to propose a session? Why are you keeping your mouth shut about the judicial crisis? And now he has to keep Parliament quiet. Why didn't you suggest? Why didn't you initiate? What didn't your BiH presidency member do? Why didn't he do that to the chairman of the Council of Ministers who has a responsibility? And then when it's done by some MPs who try to have some, show some engagement, then you say you're not good at material. You know how we got the material? We are not by getting it from the Council of Ministers, we are not by obtaining it from the VSTV but by looking for it, Emrić found on their website, we did not receive it officially, as under Bogo's grace parlament does not receive, neither about European integrations, nor about the migrant crisis, I guess it suits someone in this country and then when we call a session says you are not good at material. You bring the material, you bring the material you want, there's ten of you at the club, five of you have to propose a session. Suggest next week to the session and bring these materials, at least you have where to bring, from the Presidency, from the government, or the Council of Ministers. Well, it's not correct, it's not correct to try because of the dissatisfaction with the material, which is just a report on the work of the VSTV to delay this debate. Talk about injustice in the judicial system or keep your mouth shut and confirm that you are part of what is going on.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4038	Thank you. Representative Šamsudin Mehmedović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4039	I thank the chairman. I think that this House needs to change the Code of Conduct of Representatives and define exactly how much decibel it takes to be and therefore I warn my colleague, Saša Magazinović, to lower the tone a little bit and to speak in a sober and human correct manner in this House, otherwise, you should at least lecture me about anything you've talked about. I did say that I support the debate on this subject, but it can't be this kind of material, this 6 material is available to all of us, so it's easier for you and of course it's easier to download this material from the Internet, print and say that it's an abundant material that can be used for discussion. This material does not reflect the essence of the problem because, as far as I am in Parliament for about 12, 13 years, we have never accepted information about the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Wasn't that enough for the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to say, something really wrong in this country of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Therefore, at least Mr. Saša Magazinović can give me lectures on this subject, so I am and how to do this debate, but they need actors to be here, to sit down, to listen to what we're going to say to them, otherwise we're going to give ourselves a lecture here and say that something's wrong with the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4040	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4041	Well, there were a few, thank the chairman. So, indeed, on the trail of what Mr. and colleague Mehmedović was saying, so neuroralgia and all the situation in the judiciary is no reason for us to discuss in this, this way, in an emergency session today. No matter what colleague Magazinović has a mass of right thoughts on this subject and joins what counterpart Mehmedović said, we tried to put the laws on the agenda and voted, knocked down reports both of the VSTV and the Prosecutor's Office in the past term, etc. So it wasn't enough to do something in the last term that at an emergency session where we don't have any material, even if we get it now, here's who, let's say, if I tried to find something, how I'm going to find a point set up, we have the European Commission's views. So imagine if we came into an extraordinary session so that we could talk about, I don't want to say it by heart, they probably made an effort to learn something about it, but if you're going to talk about what the situation in the judiciary is like, so we don't have working bodies, which makes this a mandatory point, fellow Arnaut, which makes this a mandatory point. Come on, let's see, there were no colleges in the expanded composition. This, therefore, is an extraordinary session, and it is known that some point becomes mandatory. But here is the obligation, so what we're going to talk about, is whether we're going to stand up here with no material to express our impressions, our visions, our knowledge of the situation in the judiciary and discuss it. I don't know how we're going to get out of that point, what we're going to suggest, and in particular there are no actors, there's no one alive, so here. I'll just remind you that, say, the first year of my term last year as an agent, so when I ask Mr. Prosecutor questions some of his reports, you know how many times he ignored us, he didn't want to answer our questions at all, because he didn't consider it necessary, because we're not the body he's answering, those reports were just fictitious. And those who advocate today, therefore, that the laws are arranged so that this Parliament is headed by this state at the time were not for such solutions, because it was then considered political pressure on the court, and now the matter has changed I'm to argue, but also to have something to start with, so it's not us, this is Parliament. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So we're not gonna talk about it like that, there's a media report, there's this, there's that, so we'll talk about it. I'm not into that kind of discussion, I am, but not today about this agenda point. Thank you very much. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4042	Thank you, counsel. jasmin Ermić, a representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4043	Well, I would agree with my colleague Lovrinović if it wasn't really good for us to discuss this important item of the agenda at an emergency session, the situation in the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it's not good. But you know why we discuss our colleague Lovrinović at an emergency session, so because there are no regular sessions, there are no regular sessions. So call a regular session, we have a College of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to convene a regular session and set the agenda and include all those points that should have been discussed in this distinguished House on the agenda and regular sessions. Let's start working, so the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina is talking about these issues for months and calling us MPs to keep us quiet, so that we don't do anything, that we don't hear our voice, that we don't have attitudes, that we're solidarity with the situation in the judiciary, that all these affairs can get under our hat, we're all the same, etc. etc. So we have to tell my colleague Lovrinović here urgently I'm not like that, I don't want to be like that, we want an orderly system, and that's why it's an emergency session, and that's why I support this first item of the agenda. Is there any need for material, so how much material has been in public in circulation so far? about the situation in the judiciary. So call a regular session, have all the instruments in your hands, put this on the agenda, provide representatives of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to sit down and discuss these issues at a regular session, to draw conclusions, to arrange procedures, to see that we care about the rule of law and the rule of law and the arrangements of the legal system, to see it and to hear it from this White Hall, Mr. Lovrinović. That's why I think it's urgent and it's due today, so let's hear this voice that we've come here, to sit down, to say These things have to be discussed because the citizens are bitter and they're doing some kind of performance, they're sending us very clear messages. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we must start working. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4044	Thank you. Representative Branislav Borenović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4045	Thank you to the President-in-Office. So I would agree with colleagues who, I think, clearly said that it was really a public expectation that if anything else justifies all the high wages that we get regularly, I was the first time in this Parliament not one hour late and yet, in all of us, it still causes a kind of remorse. But before we start talking about these extremely important topics and the situation in the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the situation in the matter of the migrant crisis, Mr Lovrinović cited one key issue that we still do not have official answers to. This is an institution that has to give official answers. Why isn't Parliament working? Give it once already, you who are leading Parliament on the basis of the decision of the majority of Parliament, give us an official response, and it is requested by several honourable parliamentarians, why Parliament is not working, which is it, is it true that it is because of a decision by several parliamentary clubs, which make up these parliamentary clubs, from which political parties come, because I do not want anyone here to be responsible for Parliament's unhappiness because of several people or several political clubs or several political parties that have started the process of forming joint institutions in this country. To remove any generalization, it is very important that we get that answer to the question so that we can continue to work in this way and at least to justify the trust of the people who are paying us.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4046	I'd like to thank the representative. I ask all MPs and MPs to stick to the debate on the agenda. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4047	Thank you. Correction of my colleague Lovrinović's wrong quote. You see, this is an old story that I'm used to in the last session, I don't know, Magazinović, Mešić, we propose to abolish or reduce fees and then report to them like that, and they say you don't need to do it as individual MPs, it needs the Council of Ministers, and the competent Vjeko Bevanda and five years of age Vjeko Bevanda doesn't deliver any changes and additions to the Law on Salaries. Well, if we were waiting for you with that story, half the people who were talking about it would now be taking white bread, but we weren't waiting for it, but we lifted it, and the same reason is the exact same parallel about convening the session with this part of the agenda. You see, when it comes to what my colleague Lovrinović has troubled what my colleague Mehmedović can do today. We can adopt a declaration, we can adopt a recommendation, we can adopt a conclusion. Moreover, even from this debate, it is possible to come up with an initiative to amend and supplement the VSTV Act which is necessary to take account of what is happening. And as for counterpart Mehmedović that there is no VSTV president here, and I think it would be useful for him to be here and hear what we're saying, but that can't be a reason not to hold this session or not to discuss this agenda point. So do you realize that precisely because this man is not here, there is a direct need to discuss this matter. And he's not here because fejsbuk is advertised by both us and the rest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, my people's Facebook, so that's what it takes, stressing the need to discuss this in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4048	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4049	He'd start with what his colleague Borenović said, so I'm in favour of not generalizing, so we can't all be guilty, we can essentially, but we still can't know who's doing what in this Parliament and in this country. A colleague, Emrić, um, says that, well, he cited his reasons for why the point should be. I can only answer this if HDZ is ready today to terminate this session and continue a regular session with work and to appoint a Council of Ministers today, today, we will interrupt it in an hour, please send proposals for the composition of the working bodies, send a proposal for the mandate and 9 we are ready to, therefore, not generalise as Mr. Borenović says. So, as far as we're concerned, there's no problem and we're gonna end this and continue our regular session. And you did not respond to what this point is, therefore, mandatory, you did not answer. So, it's mandatory by condition, it's mandatory about what's going on in the judiciary, I agree with that, you're not listed, so you know how the point gets prefix mandatory. There was no college in the extended composition, no working bodies, no information.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4050	Please don't throw away, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4051	I hope the colleagues who started this agenda point and this session, so they'll be the introductions if this agenda stays, to see what we're going to say except for our impressions, and I can talk about it whatever you want, but someone here has to file a report on a dot like this. What are we going to discuss, what are we going to draw conclusions about? I think we understand each other, and that's why I suggest we take it off and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4052	Thank you. Representative Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, Sergeant.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4053	Thank you. I don't think we have any reason to dispute this session today. kolega. Lovrinović, who should be discussing if he is the first man, meaning, in the pyramid of Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions, a suspect, photographed, filmed, seeking bribes, seeking, is that what a municipal council needs to discuss? We urgently needed, long ago, immediately within 24 hours to get you the chairman, the leadership, to call a regular session. Listen to how, how, how, how, how, so we all know here, so they know how it goes. We here today, if it were a normal state, we would have reached a conclusion, given the deadline of the Minister of Justice within two months, three, a month to amend and supplement the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. If he doesn't, at today's session, if he doesn't do it in every normal state, we're looking for his resignation and we're voting. But we're not gonna do that, we all know what's going on and every day, and now they're laughing in our faces, so the first man won't, and what if he never comes here? What is the mechanism to force him to do? And we can never discuss this problem. And it's not just this chairman of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, everyone who comes from some environments we know, that Bog saves, what some, some judges and prosecutors in the local environments under total political control, 100% in criminal activities. In this country, it's just that there's still that poor girl who's making wood survive there, and she's lying there, and that's what's going on, and that's why 1001 reasons we have to hold this session today, to make adequate conclusions, to make sure that those who are also receiving high wages do their job. Thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4054	Thank you. We're moving on to a debate on the agenda. Representative Adil Osmanović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4055	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the Parliament, distinguished guests The Club of Members of the Party of Democratic Action is ready to take part in the 2nd emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the proposed agenda points, as my colleagues from the Club have already said. The first item of the agenda bearing the name – The current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions with an emphasis on the obligations set out in the European Commission's recommendation does not correspond with the material we have received, but we are prepared to work and, of course, in this debate we will complement some things, especially when it comes to the emphasis and obligations of the European Commission's recommendation. There is obviously a serious affair in the case of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and this House on the subject and how it should be discussed. But as President of the Party of Democratic Action Party of the House of Representatives, I would like to give you a suggestion from the chairman that you are obliged to convene the meetings of this high House, because you have no serious arguments, especially based on the Constitution and the law, not to call the meetings of this House because the political statements of those who will not participate in the House are simply because the Council of Ministers has not been appointed. You call the House session, what counterpart Borenović said, let's see which MPs don't come, who are obstructing, which are political parties and we'll see if this House has the capacity to work. Every time we come, we take part and we want to work in this House. What on behalf of the Members' Club would like you to explain to us, Article 7. The Rules of Procedure, paragraph 4) which states that an MP who is prevented from attending a session of the House or a session of a committee whose member, or who has to leave the session during its term, does not inform the Chairman of the House. I would like to know what the arguments are and what these MPs have informed you that didn't come to the meeting today. As my colleague Lovrinović said, it has nothing to do with the appointment of the Council of Ministers with this House. The old Council of Ministers can work and work, and we need to do our duty in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4056	I thank the MP, only with one comment, the chairman of this House does not call meetings but works in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, currently represents this House, and the College of the House of Representatives decides, means, that the meetings preceding the meetings of the Colleges at which the decisions are taken by consensus, and that the session would be convened there are also business provisions that say all points can be found on the agenda and that all points in accordance with the Rules of Procedure must be processed as required by the Rules of Procedure. So, when we create assumptions that the House in the legislative sense and in business can work in full capacity, there will be no problem, not until the chairman, not until the next chairman or chair, in particular, I personally think about me. Here, I hope we understand each other. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4057	I apologize to the chairman, but what you just said is not true. Article 21(2) says - the House College meeting is convened by the House chairman at the request of any member of the House. Are you calling meetings of the House's College to even create assumptions that you call a House session? And when he says the same thing – at the request of any of his members, I am now interested in whether a colleague of Zvizdić asked you to call a session of the Colleges to then create assumptions... of the House? So we go in circles, and the Rules of Procedure very clearly enables this House to work and if it does not work, it is only because persons who are obliged and obliged to do it are not doing their job.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4058	Thank you. You are wrong, the College sessions are regularly convened, when the meeting material arrives, the College is scheduled for the next week for Wednesday and in the preceding week, therefore, the College works in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in the capacity it can to respect the legal and transparent way of working of this House, i.e. only thinking about the members of the College. So any of the members of the College, chairing or chairing, has no role alone except as members of the College. Therefore, I ask you once again not to abuse business provisions. If you continue to do so in the future I will have to interrupt the session in order to request an interpretation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which you do not actually call upon, somewhere you call, and nowhere you do not call. Representative Adil Osmanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4059	The Honorable Chairman, I didn't mean to replicate, but here. I have listened closely to your statements in written, electronic media where you have clearly and precisely stated that at this time you have so much material delivered by the Council of Ministers and by us here in the House of Representatives that two sessions of this House can be held. If you behave like this, then there's nothing left for us to do but look for emergency sessions like this, it's not good for you either, but it's not good for this home either. We are asking you to call on the meetings and we are asking really to see what these reasons are, you have not answered me what the reasons for the MPs from these, here, my colleagues, from the entities of Republika Srpska who did not come today for not attending today's session to see if this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, whether it's a violation of the Constitution, the law, or if it's just a political statement that you have so accepted, and that's how you behave with regard to the non-invoking of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4060	I thank the honourable representative and warn that business provisions are being misused. We are currently at the debate on the agenda, but we have entered the call for meetings and once again I will warn you all of the provisions of Article 67. Of course, I did when I think, individually, as a representative, but Article 67 speaks of calling meetings that the House's chairman in agreement with the vice-presidents of the House or at a personal initiative is calling the House meetings and proposing the agenda to the MPs according to the work plan. 12 We move on, Dragan Mektić, representative, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4061	Thank you, Chairman, and I welcome my fellow Members and fellow Parliamentarians here. I mean, I'm just confused right now. I don't know in this whole situation at all why I'm asking the question – why does Parliament not work? Which is why we do not address the life issues of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we all receive the salaries neatly, we all benefit from the privileges possible, etc.? I, not entering the debate now on who is calling a session of Parliament, whether the chairman, whether members of the College, but you are the chairman said that the assumptions should be met. So let's meet the assumption that they're being called. Who's supposed to meet those assumptions? Do we need to meet the assumptions or do you need to fulfill those assumptions? If you can't meet the assumptions, so come on, get away from someone else who can meet those assumptions that a session of Parliament is being held, that we discuss here... We don't seem to feel any obligation towards the citizens of this country, as if our citizens live in abundance and don't know what more than that abundance, as if they don't have any problems, to solve the whole situation and everything. I especially remember, it was because of what you said – we need to meet the assumptions for holding the session, so meet the assumptions, who forbids you from fulfilling the assumptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4062	Thank you. Representative Branislav Borenović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4063	Thank you. I must respond to these many questions coming from the ruling coalition. A kolega of Osmanović, so I guess you know why your coalition partner from SNSD doesn't come to the session. I, as far as I know on December 06th, when we were in this same room, formed a coalition composed of you from your SDA Club, from the HDZ Club and two SNSD clubs. You chose the Kolegijum of this Parliament, you chose the House of Nations immediately afterwards, where you gave the possibility of SNSD having four of the five Serbian delegates and gave the possibility indirectly, as far as I am aware, that the HDZ has four of the five Croatian delegates. It's a legitimate right of yours and I absolutely welcome it. It is your decision to form a new congregation majority, which consists of dominantly three political parties and you need to give us an answer why your coalition partner whom you directly elected and in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska does not come, does not work, and why you skillfully conceal it from this coalition, why you do it that way, I think the public should know. If you have taken responsibility, and you have to take responsibility, you have the majority in this House, don't hide behind each other, but go out and tell them.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4064	Please, agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4065	Correction of the wrong quote, I had to answer. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4066	Thank you. Representative Adil Osmanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4067	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here, given that we have already moved to this political field, we, our colleague Borenović, are today coalition partners in the Council of Ministers, so keep that in mind, does not mean that tomorrow we will not be coalition partners, and does not mean that we will be, take care of the weight of the spoken word. When it comes to supporting MPs of the Party of Democratic Action at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, it is true that you asked us to support your Honorary President, it seems to me, is Mr Mladen Ivanić in the House of Peoples. Let us, that is our assessment, we are making political assessments, but bear in mind that today we in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska have only two MPs of the Party of Democratic Action, we are not that capacity that we can neither specifically help select delegates nor can we stop anything in particular. So to say, incorrect thesis, here, when the agenda adopts itself is, I would say, the mildest, inappropriate. We can open a political debate, but it doesn't mean that we with the PDP, like I said, repeat ourselves, we won't be maybe a coalition tomorrow, and it doesn't mean we'll ever be a coalition again, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4068	Thank you. Representative Branoslav Borenović, correcting the wrong allegations, if I am not mistaken, third. You have no right to an esteemed representative. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4069	I thank the chairman. Comrades and colleagues, all the distinguished guests, here I warmly welcome you to today's session. I, unlike most colleagues, will try to stick to the agenda and in my debate try to further explain why my colleague Lovrinović, on behalf of the Club, whom I belong to, suggested this intervention in the agenda as he suggested. In fact, if there is one thing that I can agree with most or all of the speakers here today, that the situation in the judiciary is bad and that we have these serious problems, but unlike some colleagues who have proposed today's session and this agenda, we of the HDZ Club have been warning about this for a long and permanent time. Within this Parliament's jurisdiction all last year, whenever we had a report from the judicial authorities in this House, we warned about the poor situation in the judiciary, warned through these reports of problems in that state, and we regularly had a serious reserve according to these reports, I would say, unlike most of the clubs and colleagues who put today's score on the agenda. So, this situation is long-term, i.e. long and long-term serious and it is indeed one of the serious reasons of a social crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but for the 14th point of today's agenda as envisaged, it is already said here, we have neither relevant materials nor relevant partners. In this way, the emergency session called for in this agenda point will not yield results, but I am quite sure that what is possibly the result here, possibly in terms of conclusions or anything else, will be completely unproductive, even counterproductive, and that it will be just pouring oil on fire to the current situation in the judiciary, on the current judicial crisis, on the current problems which are clear and politicised. If we really want to process this topic, not by crossing that thin line which means mixing this legislative authority into the judicial, judicial, power, we must prepare this debate seriously at the Council of Ministers' level, this in the technical mandate or, better yet, one that will work in full capacity and in full legitimacy according to the results of the elections and in accordance with the composition of this House, and then we will be able to reach a conclusion that will mean something and At that time, we will be able to draw conclusions about the agenda point exactly as it is, and as far as the European Commission's recommendation on this point is concerned, which will mean something and which will be worth something, which will make something possible. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And not only will the conclusions I mean to be counterproductive about this unprepared agenda point in this atmosphere about this subject, but this point, here, and it's already, contaminating this second item of the agenda. [[the speaker is warned on time]] for which we today have somewhat relevant materials and somewhat relevant interlocutors, even though I think one serious problem of this Parliament, and here it is already mentioned, that we have an interlocutor who is [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4070	Time, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4071	in a double role in this House, I apologize. And that's why I think that at this point of the agenda, the second point, where we have a consensus, where we won't do an operationally much for our debate, or help, but we can give support to all those who are working on the migrant crisis of any job and to all those who are directly affected by the migrant crisis and it would be far better to focus on this agenda point, and this first item of the agenda, all of it in accordance with our competences, well prepared, give space to prepare well and then discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4072	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4073	I thank the chairperson of Article 68, he explains in detail the call for an emergency session and you have acted by that member and called on him, but he also says that the material can be shared at the session itself. The material for this item of the agenda, as far as we are concerned as the people who initiated it, can also be a newspaper article and you know it well, and all those who have been in Parliament for a long time. So, the material for the session, no, nowhere is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, the newspaper article can be material and it must be respected as such and the session can be held. We've had cases like this where newspaper articles were our session material and it's a little offensive to me when one, I want to believe that it's serious material, a VSTV paper for the past year, is not a good basis for 15 discussions. Bring what more you think you should, but I ask the question – who in this country is the minister of economy, justice, excuse me? Grubesha. What did he say so far about all that's going on in the judiciary? Nothing. Where is this man, is he on vacation like Tegeltija? Why didn't he come here?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4074	Just call me, which rule of the Rules of Procedure has been violated.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4075	68
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4076	In what sense, just let us know.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4077	In the sense that it's misread and explained to us that this can't be material. So, what did he do, what did he suggest? Has he been targeting you, Mr. Zvizdić, to be an emergency Council of Ministers meeting to discuss the situation in the judiciary? It's not. Where's the man today? And after he didn't do anything, then the club he comes from, the minister of justice, says this isn't exactly the best material and let's just put it down. I'm asking you, if Bog didn't give up the Memić case, I don't want anything bad to happen to anyone else, and if that case had the name of one of the political leaders, that, God Bog, something like that happened to someone who was politically influential, would it have been this way, would these people go crazy, would it still be unknown today who killed David Dragičević? No, the state would have turned upside down to prove it, but now let's, let's keep going, it's not right.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4078	I thank the MP and I agree with the Rules of Procedure that you have abused yourself because you yourself said that the session is in accordance with this article and that it contains, but, of course, has the right to consult representatives in the context of the debate on the agenda to discuss these points. Representative Dragan Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4079	Thank you, Chairman. I would have determined something according to this discussion and what the gentleman, Ambassador Kožul, was saying. You see, I would ask this Parliament to make us all truly so serious and responsible that we do not come into a situation that the citizens of this country take matters into their own hands. I think that we should and should have long ago had this huge problem of non-functioning the rule of law, the rule of law, corruption and crime in the judiciary discussed and taken certain steps, so to speak, measures and actions and mechanisms to begin to function. I don't see the reason here right now, as Mr. Kožul said, that someone here prepares us, that someone delivers us something, etc. So the Council of Ministers won't be preparing us here. So isn't the preparation and recommendations of the European Commission that there are over ten recommendations that say the situation in the judiciary is disastrous. So isn't the OSCE's report enough to say that Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary is in a proper way at all and that there is no efficiency in the rule of law and the rule of law. Wasn't it material when, the other day, Wigemark, head of Delegation 16 of the European Commission, came out and publicly said that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, over a billion converting marks are lost through corruption. So what other material we need. Shouldn't we, MPs, be prepared, should we not prepare ourselves through the European Union's reports, through the recommendations of the European Union, through OSCE reports, etc. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So please, if we want to be responsible, to deal with this problem, let's solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4080	Thank you. We're moving on to a debate on the agenda. Representative Zlatan Begić, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4081	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. So it's partly true that the materials are what they are, it's quite true that we don't have representatives of the judicial institutions here today, nor the holders of executive functions in connection with the judicial function, however, this is about the crisis and also about the position of this representative body. Parliament, from the word parlar – discuss, talk, talk, this body serves it, after all, colleagues Arnaut explained very nicely what all can be the fruit of this debate, which all the mechanisms this body owns. The question is whether this body will reach out to these mechanisms, even in a situation where the situation is unclear, if there is no further information, if there are no present or present representatives of judicial institutions, this body even has mechanisms to correct and such a type of behaviour in a way that forms an investigative commission, in a way that the Commission carries out a public hearing, all in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So the question is how will we position ourselves in relations with the judicial and executive branches of government. We are three equal branches of government, with the difference that we have direct legitimacy, i.e. we are representatives of national sovereignty, so we have the right to ask questions and to carry out an analysis, and God Bog us to talk here, yes, about the current problem, that's just the thing that's impossible. What is quite clear here is the urgency that this body does not discuss itself until certain things are settled regarding the executive branch of government, I will not enter into these other motives, it is not really my intention, and by sticking to the agenda, and since we are in some way brought into this situation to discuss such important issues in the emergency sessions, here I am announcing to you in the next few days, you will most likely receive a request for an emergency session at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and the lack of maintenance and the unhappiness of this body. I thank you, once again I ask you to show us a dose of seriousness, the situation is not good, you know, no one can forbid us, not that we can't be banned, we have the right and the duty here to discuss all the issues. If there is something that is not clear to us, if we lack information this Rules of Procedure and the constitutional position of this body allows, therefore there are institutional possibilities all of this information and to obtain in one completely institutional way, it is only a question of whether we will enter into the discussion and make such a kind of conclusion or simply cut and completely subdue this distinguished House with some other processes. and their end. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4082	Thank you, counsel. Representative Branislav Borenović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4083	Thank you. Well, here we are today in a situation to discuss this agenda precisely because the majority of parliament, I repeat, did not finish the work that started a few months ago and did not make that effort, and there is no need for anyone here to be angry, I'm just talking about the facts and arguments that there is a qualified majority who started the process of selecting the Assembly Kolegijum, which has most of them both in this House and in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and we are in this situation today that MPs are using the business opportunity to put on the agenda extremely important current issues that concern many citizens, but also the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the Republic of Serbia and in the Federation of BiH. And I don't see the need to make excuses here for something that's clear. I think this, if nothing else, is responsible for the behaviour of the MPs who signed this initiative and who also want to show that it is very important for this final process of establishing the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to end as soon as possible. And there's no need to be looking here for some kind of excuse for something that's clear. The three political sides have a majority, they have chosen the Kolegijum, they have chosen the majority in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and they need to finish the job so that we can work uninterruptedly. We come to one, in my opinion, an incredible, absurd situation which is atypical, which exists nowhere in the world alone, that the ruling majority is blocking Parliament's work, literally blocking Parliament's work, it's nowhere, it's either for opposition or for people or for work, I don't know, someone third, but this is a unique example that the ruling majority is blocking Parliament's work and is still looking for an excuse why we don't need to discuss the situation in the judiciary or the migrant crisis. And it concerns everyone and this doesn't matter, and it's a good thing that this debate, as far as I've had the opportunity to see and hear from all of these discussions, will nevertheless be very constructive and will give certain guidelines, certain recommendations or views of MPs on these issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4084	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4085	I thank the chairman. So, I've already thought of answering it several times, but here, for example, what counterparts Begić and counterpart Adilović said or many others, uh, just a sign that this session was just supposed to discuss what Parliament was doing and not the agenda point that I suggested to take off because it wasn't ready today. And Mr. Mektić, who also abuses this and speaks several times about the way Parliament works and the law and the judiciary and the judiciary, but Mr. At the same time you act as both minister and representative, resign and speak as a representative. So, at the same time, you are violating the Constitution and the laws of this country. So give it to me if you're going to talk about it then tell me correctly how it is. I suggested that this point be removed from the agenda because for me not preparing good for her, anyone could bring anything, those who called her could have brought material and better and worse, I have nothing against, but I need good preparation for this 18 debate and for that I debate but not today and nothing more. So I do not understand why you are now talking about why Parliament is not working, who is the parliamentary majority, how Parliament will work, this is what my colleague Begić said, call and put on such a point of the day, and we will discuss it. Here's a proposal to take off the agenda, not to get into the essence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4086	Thank you. Representative Dragan Mektić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4087	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know if there's any way for us to get serious, make ourselves responsible, and say so, as the most legislative body, take responsibility for the fate of this people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've brought the citizens into one unscrupulous, difficult situation which is the only way out for all of this solution to get out of this country. Among other things, the contribution to such behaviour and such a fact is both the irresponsibility and the MPs in this House and the inadequacy of the MPs in this House. And who works and how works, who works, Mr. Lovrinović, you can't set the rules here.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4088	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4089	you can't ask the rules, you can ask the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4090	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4091	Please don't throw away. Proceed, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4092	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4094	Thank you. Uh, you can't set the rules about how anyone will behave, if we're a well-organized rule of law and if we're going to hold on to it at all, then we're going to let certain normative acts determine that. If the Law is an electoral, central electoral law and an interpretation of the Election Commission, he said that in a transitional period is such behavior, that is not the attitude you can ask for to be treated differently. And the other thing you can't invite just me, call, there are more MPs, and among other things there are MPs from your political party who are both ministers and MPs or MPs, however you want them to be. Oh, yeah, so you can't take yourself as a right to 19 lay down some rules here that are past the law and I think you should respect that. And the other thing, I also think that today this debate on the state of justice needs to continue and we really need to, once again say, take that responsibility, I think that if the VSTV in this way works and breaks down with the entire state of affairs and presents itself as one alienated power center, then I think that we must, through the law, through the rules and norms, settle the situation and regulate the responsibility of the judicial system for this situation that we are in.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4095	Thank you, counsel. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4096	I welcome all those present, and I'll stick to it strictly, so we'll discuss the agenda. I believe that if someone with attention has also read the report of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, which we have received along with the draft agenda, that he could find the grounds for discussion today on the state of justice, here I will be actively involved later if we adopt such a agenda, but also this report if it is carefully read and can be a basis for debate on the situation in the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-06-14-0.u4097	Thank you. Since we no longer have any applications to discuss the agenda, I am concluding a debate on the agenda. And now, according to the order, we put forward Mr Nikola Lovrinović's proposal to remove point 1 from today's agenda, that is – the current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions, with an emphasis on the commitments made by the European Commission. Please prepare to plead. Of the 31 present – for 4, against 23, abstention 4, there is no general majority. I find that we haven't, that the motion to take down point one hasn't been adopted. And now I ask you to make a statement on the proposed agenda, and that's agenda 1. The current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions, with an emphasis on the European Commission's recommendations; 2. Information from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the control and management of the mass number of migrants and refugees in Bosnia and Herzegovina, referring to the current security and humanitarian situation in the area of the UN-San canton. 20 Please make a statement. Of the 29 present – for 24, against 3, abstention 2. There is a general but there is no entity majority, we do not have a third member of the College of Consensation, so I regret to say that at this point we have not adopted the agenda of the 2nd emergency session of the House of Representatives and is going to agree, so when assumptions are made for that. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Can, can, means of a total of 29 present – for 24, versus 3, abstention 2. There is a general majority but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska, we do not have 1/3 of the Republika Srpska entity vote. I agree that this proposal must be agreed upon in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and at this point I am interrupting, meaning, a session, the 2nd extraordinary session of the House of Representatives. Thank you. Session aborted at 11:25 p.m.
