ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honored delegates, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I warmly welcome you all and open a constitutive session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Article 2(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations has established that until the chairman-in-Office of the first session is elected, the oldest elected or oldest elected delegate shall be chaired as interim chair. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] I warmly congratulate the present delegates on the election of this responsible duty and want successful work in the upcoming four-year term. I am convinced that in this very turbulent time, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, we will carry out entrusted duties in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I expect that in this high home, a tolerated, civilized and democratic atmosphere is felt regardless of the different attitudes and parties we come from. The Central Election Commission of BiH submitted a decision confirming the results of the last elections and granting mandates to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Republika Srpska No. 06-107-1726/18, of 11.12.2018 "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 88/18 and Decision confirming the results of the last elections and granting a mandate to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the Federation of BiH No. 06-107-179-1/1/1/119, since 26/02/2019 "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 15/19. Let me read to you a list of delegates who, based on the above-mentioned decisions of the Central Election Commission of BiH, will perform the duties of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the next term. We welcome BiH Presidency member Mr. Šefik Džaferović, who is present in the session. I would remind you that according to the BiH Constitution and the BiH Election Law, 15 delegates are elected to this House and 10 delegates from the Federation of BiH and 5 delegates from Republika Srpska territory. The following candidates were appointed to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH: From the Federation of BiH Delegates from the Bosniak People: Bećirović Denis, Fazlić Amir, Izetbegović Bakir, Radončić Fahrudin and Sarajlić Asim. 2 Delegations from the Croatian people: Bradara Lidija, Čolak Bariša, Čović Dragan, Miletić Zlatko, Pendeš Marina. From Republika Srpska Delegates from the Serbian people: Bosić Mladen, Majkić Dušanka, Nović Sredoje, Prodanović Lazar, Špirić Nikola. I would remind you of the provisions of Article 3. Rules of Procedure: Delegates assume the duty of joint giving and individual signing of a solemn declaration. You've been given the text of your solemn statement from the Home Service. I ask you to sign and return it to the office after making your solemn statement. Please stand up and join us in giving a solemn statement. /Making a solemn statement. I pledge to knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u3	I pledge to knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u4	respect the BiH Constitution, fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u5	respect the BiH Constitution, fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u6	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u7	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u8	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, by the act of giving a solemn statement, we have obtained conditions for carrying out our delegate's duties. 3 I find that the session is attended by 14 delegates, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. I'm guessing we have a quorum for full-time decision-making. You have received the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the Guide for Delegates and MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The materials in the parliamentary procedure will be obtained later. It is my duty to ask you to fill out the forms that are divided into benches, which are: - charts of basic data, - a statement of familiarity with regulations in the field of the processing of classified data, - a statement of willingness to act in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Conduct of Members and Delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, - a statement on which language and letter you wish to receive materials. I'll ask you to fill out the forms and hand them over to the employees of the protocol or to the secretaries at your clubs. This was several introductory notes prior to the establishment of the constitutional session agenda. Now we move on to establishing the agenda of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples. I suggest the next Agenda 1. Founding clubs of the people; 2. The election of the chairman, first and second vice-president of the House of Peoples. We are voting on the proposed agenda of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please initiate the voting system.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u9	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u10	At the request of Mr. Čolak, please repeat the vote. The vote is over – 14 votes against no one, no one abstentioned. I realise that the agenda of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted. I suggest we move to the first item of the agenda of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. 4 The point of one agenda is, Ad. 1. Founding of clubs of the people Article 4 of Article (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations provides that after delegates make a solemn statement to the House, the three clubs of delegates of the constituent peoples are set up: - The club of the Bosniak People's delegates, - the club of the Croatian People's delegates, - the club of the Serb peoples. Is there any need for us to take a break to agree on the establishment of the clubs of the people and the election of the chairman and vice-president of the chair clubs? No, thank you. I ask the representatives of the clubs to inform the House about the establishment of the clubs of the people and to introduce us to who the chair of the clubs are, and who the vice presidents of the clubs are. I would like to ask a representative of the Bosniak People's Club to inform the House who has been elected chairman and deputy chairman of the Bosniak People's Club. Excuse me, Marina Pendeš, did she want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u12	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u13	Ah, okay. So how much?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u14	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u15	Ten minutes. I suggest a 10-minute break. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. Is there any need to explain the break or not? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate everyone on the election and welcome everyone present. In accordance with Articles 4 and 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been established by the Bosniak People's Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We note that Mr. Denis Bećirović was not present because of his family's grief, was he. So we from four present delegates at the Bosniak Club for the chairman club chose Asim Sarajlić and Deputy Denis Bećirović. Here's where I'm going to deliver the record of the club's formation to the departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u19	Thank you very much. I find that as the chairman of the Bosniak People's Club, Asim Sarajlić was appointed and Deputy Chairman of the Bosniak People's Club Denis Bećirović was appointed. I would like to ask a representative of the Croatian People's Club to inform the House who has been elected chairman and vice-president of the Croatian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u20	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow envoys, dear guests, I welcome you all. In accordance with Articles 4 and 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Paramentary Assembly of BiH on 28 February were established by the Croatian People's Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, Lidija Bradara, Bariša Čolak, Dragan Čović, Zlatko Miletić and Marina Pendeš. Lidija Bradara was elected president of the Club, and Bariša Čolak was elected deputy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u21	Thank you very much. I find that Lidija Bradara was appointed the chairman of the Croatian People's Club, and Bariša Čolak was appointed vice chairman of the Croatian People's Club. I would now like to ask the representative of the Serbian People's Club to inform the House who has been elected chairman and deputy chairman of the Serbian People's Club. Here you go, Mr. Špirić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u22	... At the home of the Serbian People's Club, Sredoje Nović was elected chairman and Deputy Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u23	Thank you very much. I realise that Sredoje Nović was appointed chairman of the Serbian People's Club, and Dušanka Majkić was appointed vice chairman of the Serbian People's Club. After the appointment of the chairman and vice-president of the People's Club in the House of Peoples, we move to the second item of the agenda, which is Ad. 2. Selection of the chairperson, first and second vice-president of the House of Nationals Let me remind you of the provisions of Article 7. Rules of Procedure relating to the election of the chairman, first and second vice-president of this House. Article 7. (Selecting the Chairman and Vice-President of the dom) stav (1) After the establishment of the Dom People's Clubs between its members is elected by one representative from each of the constituent people to perform the duties of the chairman, first vice-president and second vice-president of the House. The chairman cannot be elected from the same constituent people as the chairman of the House of Representatives. Position (2) Every club of the people and every delegate shall have the right to propose candidates for these duties. Once a list of candidates is established for each place, it shall be voted. If there are more candidates for one place, the first vote is for the candidate proposed by the club of the people. Position (3) If no candidate for one place has received the required majority or received the same number of votes, the vote shall be repeated for the two candidates who received the most or the same number of votes. The position (4) of the selection decision shall be made in a manner established for decision in the House. In the event of an agreement, the alignment will be carried out by the chairman of the clubs of the people. If the alignment fails, the vote is repeated. Position (5) If no candidate has received the required majority of the vote, it shall be repeated as a whole. Allow me to remind you of the provisions of Articles 75 and 76 before proposing candidates. Rules of Procedure. 7 Article 75. (making decisions) The position (1) All decisions in the House shall be made by a majority of the votes of those present and voting. Article (2) Delegates will make every effort to include at least 1/3 of the delegation's votes in the territory of each entity. Position (3) If most of the votes do not include 1/3 of the votes of the delegates from the territory of each entity, the chairman of the dom and his deputies will meet as a commission and try to secure consent within three days of the vote. Position (4) If this fails, decisions shall be made by a majority of the votes cast by those present and who vote on the condition that the votes against them do not contain 2/3 or more of the votes of the delegates elected from each entity. Article 76. (Decision procedure when most do not contain 1/3 votes from the territory of each entity) The position (1) If most votes do not contain 1/3 of the vote from the territory of each entity, the House College, acting as a commission, will seek to reach agreement within three days. Article 2 If the Chair of the House and the Vice-President of the House achieves the consent of Article 75(3) of this Rules of Procedure, the relevant decision of the House shall be deemed to be adopted and the House shall be informed accordingly. Exceptionally from the provisions of Rule 19 of this Rules of Procedure, consensus shall be reached by the Consensus of the Chairman of the House and the Vice-President. Position (3) If the Kolegijum of the House fails to reach agreement, the majority of the total number of delegates present and voting on condition that the votes against do not contain 2/3 or more of the votes of the delegates selected from each entity shall be decided. Position (4) In the event that there is no quorum, and if, after a break from the chairman of the House, the establishment or voting shows that there is still no quorum, consideration of the issue is postponed for the next session. Item (5) If the delegate does not declare himself against, against or refrain from the vote and is present in the hall at the time of the vote, he shall be deemed to be abstention. Before joining the proposal for the chairman, first and second vice-president of the House of Peoples, I would like to remind you that Mrs Borjana Krišto, of the Croatian people, has been appointed as the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The first deputy chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives was appointed by Mr Denis Zvizdić of the Bosniak people and another deputy chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Mr Nebojša Radmanović of the Serb people. In accordance with Article 7(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the chairman cannot be elected from the same constituent people as the chairman of the House of Representatives. 8 In view of Article 7(2), each club of the people, as well as any delegate, shall have the right to propose candidates for the chairman, or vice-chair of the House of Peoples. First, we should propose a candidate for the presidency of the People's House, and in this case, the seat of the chairman belongs to the Bosniak people's candidate. Then, we propose the first deputy chairman of the Croatian people and then the second deputy chairman of the Serb people's order. I would like to remind you that Article 22 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples provides for the following – The Chairman of the House automatically rotates on this duty without voting every eight months starting from the day of the election of the Chairman. I now ask the chairman of the Bosniak People's Club to propose a candidate for the People's House of Speakers.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, by respecting all that you have said in the introduction, and in accordance with Article 7(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at a session held on 28 February 2019, the Bosniak People's Delegation Club decided on a proposal for a candidate for the People's House of Speakers. Bakir Izetbegović is proposed as the chairman of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u26	Thank you very much. Do any of the delegates have a proposal for the presidency of the Bosniak People's House? There isn't. We are voting on a proposal from the Bosniak People's Club for a candidate for the People's House of Speakers. Please move. The vote was closed – 12.2 abstentions voted. Thank you very much. We find that Mr Bakir Izetbegović has been elected as the chairman of the People's House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Congratulations. [[APLAuz]] I ask the chairman of the Croatian People's Club to propose a candidate for the First Vice-President of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u28	The Honorable President. 9 In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH The Club of the Croatian Peoples in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposes Dr Dragan Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u29	Thank you very much. Do any of the delegates from the Croatian people have a proposal for the first deputy chairman of the House of Peoples? There isn't. We are voting on the proposal of the Croatian People's Club for the First Vice-President of the House of Peoples. You can vote. The vote is complete – 12 for, 2 abstentions. I find that Mr Dragan Čović was elected as the first deputy chairman of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you. [[APLAuz]] On behalf of the Serbian People's Club, I propose a candidate for the second vice-president of the House of Peoples, Mr. Nikola Špirić. Do any of the delegates from the Serb people have a proposal for another deputy chairman of the House of Peoples? There isn't. We're going to vote. Please proceed. The vote is over – I find that 12 in, 2 against. I agree that for the second deputy chairman of the People's House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH,... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-02-28-0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, distinguished guests. Let me first thank Mr. Sredoje Nović for his successful presidency of the first part of the constitutional session of this high house, I warmly thank you Mr. Nović and wish you a successful work in this term. On behalf of my deputies and on my behalf, I thank you ladies and gentlemen for your trust, and I wish you successful work in the next four years. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the delegations on the date of holding the next session will be informed on a case-by-case basis. I hereby conclude the constitutional session. Thank you. Session completed at 11:41 p.m.
