ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4718	Dear ladies and gentlemen, representatives, honored guests, respected media representatives, respected members of the BiH Council of Ministers. I am opening the fourth emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Now the anthem will be intonated. From today's session, they justified the absence: the distinguished Aida Baručija representative and the esteemed representative Branislav Borenović, while Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić informed the House in writing that due to his official trip to Bratislava he would not be able to attend the 4th emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] There are currently 40 MPs present, so I'm realizing that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. The sitting was convened in accordance with Article 27 (1) point (b), Article 68 and Article 151(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH. You have been given the agenda and given the view and attitude of the College held yesterday, I invite you to allow me to conclude that today's emergency session agenda is the way you got and received the call, since the College has also decided not to vote or that voting on any amendments and amendments to the agenda will not be accepted. Today we have two important points, this is the end of the process of establishing the House of Representatives and starting the process of appointment of the Council of Ministers, so I really invite you to let me realize that today's session agenda has the same order and identical content as you received in the invitation. Here we have a distinguished representative of Arnaut, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4719	I thank the chairman. So, Article 74. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the Proposer, or representative of the Proposer, is required to attend the House meetings. In the absence of a proposal for an act, it shall not be discussed unless the House decides otherwise, it shall be Article 74. And Article 178, which discusses the draft laws proposed by the Presidency or which resolves issues from the BiH presidency's jurisdiction, requires at least one member of the BiH presidency to attend. I remind you that nearly five years ago when your appointment was made and you remember the situation well, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, who was sitting in that chair at the time, is a little confusing since you perform two functions, in any case made by Mr. Šefik Džaferović a break and a member of the Bureau came to attend the session. Now I definitely see that we do not have members of the 2 Presidencies here although this is a matter from the BiH presidency's jurisdiction, and I don't know if we have a representative of the BiH presidency anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4720	Thank you very much to the esteemed representative. Of course, when we get to that point of the agenda, we will make it clear, but, of course, a well-known note for all MPs, that all the members of the BiH Presidency are on an official visit, but in any case we have a solution through the Rules of Procedure and on this issue. So, since there are no more reports, let me say that the 4th Emergency Session of the House has the next Agenda 1. Confirming the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers; 2. Appointment of members of the Permanent Committees of the House of Representatives: (a) Constitutional Legal Commissions, (b) Commission on Foreign Affairs, (c) Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, (d) Commission on Finance and Budget, (e) Commission on Transport and Communication, and (f) Commission on Gender Equality We move to the first item of the agenda, Add. 1. Confirmation of appointment of BiH Ministerial Council Chairman I would like to remind you that the procedure for confirming the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers chairman has been overruled by Article 151. The Rules of Procedure of the House. Also, Article V point 4. The BiH Constitution prescribes a way to appoint the chairman and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency's decision to appoint the BiH Council of Ministers was delivered on 19 November 2019, and you all got it. Let me now, in accordance with Rule 151 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, read the Decision appointing the BiH Presidency Council of Ministers by the Presidency – on the basis of Article V of Article 4. The BiH Constitution, Article 9(1) of the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Rule 38 (1) of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Presidency, at its 44th extraordinary session held on 19 November 2019, the BiH Council of Ministers appointed a chairman. 1. Zoran Tegeltija is appointed the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers; 2. This Decision shall be forwarded to the Commission for the preparation of the election of the Council of Ministers of the Parliamentary House of BiH in the follow-up procedure; 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. 3 The Committee for the Preparation of the Elections of the BiH Council of Ministers held a meeting on 26 November 2019, discussed all available information regarding the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers chairman, held the debate, and submitted a recommendation to confirm the appointment of Zoran Tegeltija to the BiH Council of Ministers. Now I call upon the esteemed Mr. Zoran Tegelti to endure the exposés, or to... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4725	Dear chairman, members of the working presidency, honourable MPs, representatives of international and non-governmental organisations, media representatives, ladies and gentlemen. 4 I want to start by pointing out that I am fully attached to the principle of rule of law, respect for the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Constitution of BiH and the constitutional structures and the jurisdiction of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I express full adherence to the principles and values at which contemporary democracies of the world rest. It will be a rule of conduct for the new Council of Ministers. I am fully aware of the responsibility towards the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I am ready to form and ensure with you Members of Parliament a stable functioning of the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina whose task will be to speed up the implementation of the necessary legislative, socio-economic and social reforms, which will primarily focus on addressing everyday life issues of citizens, and to offer responsible management of the rule of law, security and prosperity. By preparing this exposé, I have analysed the various documents and I am fully aware of all the obligations expected by the Council of Ministers and myself as chairman. I am fully aware of the weight of the task that this function carries and great expectations from citizens who want a safe future in Bosnia and Herzegovina for themselves and their families. For more than a year after the election, Bosnia and Herzegovina has failed to form power, and that is our obligation to all of us together, to do the best we can to try to make up for the time that has been missed over the past year. With this in mind, I am determined that the Council of Ministers contributes to the education of reform processes so that Bosnia and Herzegovina can start negotiations on joining the European Union. Gentlemen, I would like to point out that the document I present to you is not a detailed programme of the Council of Ministers' work for the term of office, but only basic guidelines for work, because the work plan can only be drawn up after the election process of the Council of Ministers. After the election of all ministers in the Council of Ministers, a detailed plan of work of the Council of Ministers for the term of office will be prepared and announced. Given the slow process of forming power, we do not have the right to a hundred days that have all the newly elected authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, immediately after the formation of the Council of Ministers, we must unblock all processes both in the Council of Ministers and in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, adopt the 2020 budget and make investment funds available to entities. I am grateful to the leaders of political parties who have managed to agree the principles for forming government at BiH level and will be a guideline for working in the future. Key reform areas that will focus on the Council of Ministers are very closely linked to priorities given in the joint socio-economic period 2019-2020, which have already been adopted by the Government of Republika Srpska and the Government of the Federation and will be on the agenda of the first session of the Council of Ministers. In addition to joint socio-economic reforms, the priorities and recommendations given in the European Commission's Opinion on BiH's request for EU membership are also the framework for the work of the Council of Ministers in the coming period with the aim of gaining candidate status as soon as possible. Finally, policies with international financial institutions that, through government work at BiH level, will unblock the necessary investments in the country for the very purpose of our priorities. Of course, the social and security challenges faced by citizens, which have not been adequately addressed in the previous period, do not suffer delays. In this connection, the key reform areas of the new Council of Ministers are the economy, public administration reform, Eurointegration, the rule of law, relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina, co-operation with international financial institutions and the International Community, the migrant crisis, refugees, displaced persons and returnees, youth, women and other sensitive categories of society. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't bother you with statistics, but I would like to make a few indications about Bosnia and Herzegovina as seen by international financial institutions. GDP per capita in BiH is currently at 1/3 of GDP in the European Union. With the current rate of growth, BiH would need several decades to draw closer to the European Union average according to a growth and employment study for Bosnia and Herzegovina 5. Insufficient private sector development and a low investment level pose a significant challenge especially because the private sector has difficulty (?) competitive and lacks the necessary dynamism for export-oriented growth. According to the International Financial Corporation, its share of the country's GDP is only 65% and is the lowest in the region, while labour productivity is less than half of the 7 smaller economies in the transition in Europe. Bosnia and Herzegovina's employment rate for 2018 was 34.3% and is slightly higher compared to the previous year. According to administrative data, 804,497 of which 341,521 women worked on average in 2018. This represents an increase compared to the previous period. Basically, women and young people face employment challenges. As early as 2015, through the Reform Agenda, we defined a reduction in labour loads because high labour pressures have a negative impact on workers' salaries and the competitiveness of the private sector. In addition, the average wage gap in the public and private sectors is the largest in the region, which is the consequences of a significant presence in the gray economy. According to the global index, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Global Innovation Index was ranked 76th among 130 countries and did not move in the field of research and innovation. Unfortunately, Bosnia and Herzegovina remains the worst-placed country from the Balkans. In line with the International Monetary Fund analyses at all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are 550 public-owned enterprises that employ about 80,000 people or about 11% of all employees in the country. At the same time, around 1/3 of the estimated total tax debts are public enterprises' debts, while most public enterprises are in a uncertain financial situation. This situation is caused by market disturbances and inadequate distribution of natural resources, while productivity in the public sector is in most cases not satisfactory. It is all stated that because of the lack of opportunities and prospects for the future, citizens leave the country, especially educated, qualified young people, which further reduces labour force, while Bosnia and Herzegovina is left without human capital. This is how our country is seen by representatives of international financial institutions. I see them with different, better and more beautiful eyes. Ladies and gentlemen, today when I present the programme, I must point out that the overall public finances in Bosnia and Herzegovina are in good shape, and the key macroeconomic indicator is positive. The responsible economic policy implemented by the entity governments and the Council of Ministers has ensured stable GDP growth. Sustainable GDP growth that should be based on investment growth, increased exports of goods and services and reduced public expenditure is also planned in the future. Sustainable and accelerated economic growth requires an increase in competitiveness of the economy, a better business environment, a restructuring of the economy, especially the public sector, better protection of domestic economy, promotion of investment. Absolutely aware of the constitutional position of the Council of Ministers when it comes to the economy, I am ready to implement all the necessary refs that we agree with the government of Republika Srpska and the government of the Federation, which will aim at sustainable and accelerated economic growth. In co-operation with entity-level authorities, we will take decisive steps towards reducing the tax burden on labour to achieve competitiveness or the possibility of further increasing wages. In order to improve business arrangements and strengthen the single economic space, we will insist that the Indirect Taxation Administration significantly shorten the procedures for issuing the VAT number, and together with the authorities in Republika Srpska and the Federation we will work to fully implement our laws on electronic signature and ensure interoperability of the electronic signature system throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. We will improve the collection of indirect taxes, strengthen public debt management capacities, provide greater security and macroeconomic projections and improve budgetary planning. We will create a fiscal framework for public investment to accelerate the development of transport, sustainable energy and digital infrastructure, and better connect Bosnia and Herzegovina with the global economy. We will prepare and strengthen digitisation projects for the public 6 sector and business community. In co-operation with international financial institutions, we will limit employment and expenditure on salaries and total wage spending in the public sector by working to improve and improve the efficiency and productivity of public administration. In line with the commitments from the joint and socio-economic reforms for the period 19-22. We will adopt the Tax on additional value in order to comply with the European Union Directive and support companies. Finally, we will adopt the Deposit Insurance Act, which will round up the framework for the recovery of banks in accordance with the Deposit Insurance Ways Directive and the Bank Recovery and Rehabilitation Directive. We will provide full support to entity governments to fully implement a project to strengthen the banking sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We will pay particular attention to improving the country's digital transformation to liberate the potential of the IT sector, improve innovation, competitiveness and development. In addition, we will implement a digital transformation through greater use of eu-government and eu- Service to establish a predictable, transparent, efficient and responsible system for supporting citizens and businesses, and on the other hand enables a system for new ways to combat corruption. In order to improve the management and transparency of public enterprises, together with entity-level authorities, we will develop publicly available and harmonised registers of public enterprises with up-to-date ownership information, employees, comprehensive financial reports including the debt situation of enterprises, and introduce OECD corporate governance principles in public enterprises. The agriculture and rural development sector will be top priority of the Council of Ministers. We will support the initiatives of competent ministries and groups of producers for the introduction of levies under the Foreign Trade Act. We will work on revising tariff quotas, establishing market-infrastructure systems, more precise definition of tariff codes and measures to improve the work of inspection bodies at borders. We will support the Government of Republika Srpska and the Federation government's initiative on systemic access to the ban on exports of raw materials, i.e. the ban on the export of troops and the introduction of specific tariffs for exports of low-level varieties. We will work primarily to improve the capacity of the country's institutions as a whole to withdraw funds from pre-accession funds in the area of agriculture and rural development, and to coordinate further activities in the construction and IPARD operational structure and co-ordination of the process of harmonising the legal and strategic framework, as well as measures of agrarian policy with the EU legal framework, as well as rules and procedures for pre-accession funds for agriculture and rural development. The area of veterinary and food safety, Bosnia and Herzegovina, has managed to ensure the export of all agricultural products other than red meat through numerous visits to the European Commission's Directorate for Health and Food which have carried out inspections in accordance with the general provisions of the EU legislation, and it is necessary to make a maximum effort to meet all the conditions for export of this type of product as soon as possible. In line with the established legal warning system of natural disasters, and created flood risk maps and other tools developed in the meantime, we will ensure the coordination of institutions at all levels and provide funds to build capacity for preventive action and preparedness to deal with risks of climate change. We will continue our activities to strengthen and remove new systems for defence against floods and irigation systems to protect and strengthen production at the same time, and protect property and infrastructure. The development of Bosnia and Herzegovina's energy potential must be our imperative. A stable energy sector is a matter of stability, security, the independence of our society, and only then a commercial issue. Bosnia and Herzegovina urgently needs smart investments that will significantly and objectively launch economic activity, and where the energy sector plays a major role. The domestic and European energy context in the current period is filled with major decisions, challenges and uncertainty. The countries of the European Union lead the implementation of clean energy policy significantly 7 changing energy paradigms, regulatory mechanisms and investment needs. The Framework Strategy, the Energy Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina by 2035, has given direction for energy development and is looking for a real balance in the context of the so-called energy trilem. Aware of the restrictions facing the Council of Ministers in the field of energy, I believe that the launch of investment investments, market and regulatory reforms in all energy segments supported by strong and structural implementation by all key participants is critical for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Guidelines for energy development in BiH must be based on 3 aspects: security of supply, competitiveness of prices and decarbonisation policies, i.e. energy cleaning. A clear direction towards energy development is an important prerequisite for strengthening investment activities in energy, resulting in the growth of investment activities in other related industries and a wider positive impact on the overall economy. The area of transport must contribute to sustainable and stable economic development through four general objectives, namely: ensuring institutional efficiency, ensuring financial sustainability, fostering economic development and addressing the issue of environmental and social impacts. The four objectives will have to be achieved through specific actions in line with the needs and specificities of the Republika Srpska, the Federation and the Brcko District. Given the position of the Council of Ministers in the process of building key traffic, we will do everything we can to provide the necessary financial resources for the construction, as well as grants to support entities and thus provide all the necessary conditions for financing the most significant projects in the area of transport infrastructure. I believe that the key projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina are at this moment the completion of the construction of the Corridor Vc, the construction of the Sarajevo-Belgrade highway, the construction of the Vukosavlje-Brčko-Bijeljina highway, the construction of the bridge across the Sava River in Gradišca, the release of the bridge in Bratunc, and the establishment of the wateriness of the Sava River. So establishing travel communications with neighbouring countries and ending key routes within Bosnia and Herzegovina in co-operation with entities will be another important priority in the work of the Council of Ministers. The public administration must function as a private sector, as the main levers of economic growth and the true service of citizens. We aim to improve the quality and impact of public administration through careful public administration reform. The public administration reform process has been carried out through a project that Bosnia and Herzegovina has been working on for several years, but which has unfortunately been stalled for a long time because of the inability to reach agreement on some solutions. The Council of Ministers, in co-operation with entity governments, will adopt the necessary strategies and action plans for public administration reform, public finance management reform, and establish a common framework for monitoring based on impact and ensuring financial sustainability. We will also establish a political decision-making body in line with constitutional competences and strengthen technical coordination structures to improve access to public administration reform at the level of all BiH. In co-operation with the Government of Republika Srpska and the Government of the Federation, we will amend the Law on State Service, ensure respect for the principle of merit in all procedures of employment, promotion, layoff and improvement of human resources management. Accession to the European Union is one of the main strategic objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina and there is a very high degree of agreement in our society. For me, the process of joining the European Union is not a goal in itself, but is the best framework for the rephoms and development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On that road of accession to the European Union, we have come a long way that was unnecessarily stopped in 2019. When we talk about Eurointegration, first of all we think about setting up and applying a targeted full capacity coordination mechanism, improving the access assistance instruments programme, and implementing the recommendations made in the European Commission's Opinion on the request for Bosnia and Herzegovina to join the European Union, all with the goal of making BiH a candidate country as soon as possible. Therefore, the implementation of economic integration processes aimed at achieving full membership in the European Union 8 is also one of strategic commitment in the coming period. In these challenging and reform times, and for the European Union itself, Bosnia and Herzegovina must show full readiness, initiative and strength to be recognised as an equal partner and a credible talker in this process. Achieving the candidate country's status for Bosnia and Herzegovina would be a confirmation of the consistent and successful implementation of the highest democratic standards and implementation of the country's reform processes and, above all, a step closer to achieving the standards of EU member states. The way towards the European Union is, in fact, the path to reform in all areas of society, and we must be prepared to meet a series of criteria and commit ourselves to consistent application of European standards and European values. The first step on the road is to realise priorities from the European Commission's Analytical Report as part of the Opinion on Bosnia and Herzegovina's request for membership in the European Union. In May of this year, the European Commission announced its opinion by giving a detailed analysis of the current situation and a list of priorities under the political and economic criteria and 33 negotiating chapters on which institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina must work rapidly on their way to EU accession. We are aware of all potential challenges, given the complexity and severity of fulfilling certain obligations, but we are also ready to continue to work decisively to implement defined priorities, expecting support from citizens and the public as an unforgiving partner in this process, believing that there is a clear commitment to fully integrate into European structures and sharing their values. It is of paramount importance that we strengthen structures at the country's level to ensure effective planning, implementation and monitoring of activities in the field of European integration. Then, of fundamental importance, the consistent application of the coordination mechanism in the European integration process in all segments of the integration process. The coordination mechanism that respects the competences of all institutions in the country is crucial for European movement and reconciliation of issues on the European path. One of the key tasks is to bring Bosnia and Herzegovina's integration programme into the European Union and the programme itself into line with the system of coordination and the process of European integration in the country. I would like to stress that the implementation of preparatory activities for the new multiannual European Union financial framework for the period 2021-2027, i.e. for the third generation of pre-accession aid instruments. The adoption of European standards involves the involvement of the entire society and the active participation of all levels of government in the accession process, thus demonstrating the will and willingness to improve the quality of life of citizens through strengthening democratic institutions and the rule of law, market economy, high standards, protection of human and minority rights and domestic legislation adapted to those in the European Union where we plan to work actively in the next period. It is very important that we understand that the accession process to the European Union is a guarantee of our common future and of our security that we will live in a better, fairer and richer society. In the environments of the existence of serious security challenges that no one has been spared nor Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as the migrant crisis, radicalism and terrorism, it is necessary to develop co-operation with everyone on joint partnership relations. In this context, NATO plays an irreplaceable role in Bosnia and Herzegovina and its relations with this military-political organisation should be developed in line with its own interests and needs, starting with the Bosnia and Herzegovina Reform Programme as a basic document defining a framework for further development of relations between the two sides, as well as certain activities that competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina should carry out towards strengthening their own capacities in order to be able to respond to existing and future security challenges. Bosnia and Herzegovina must develop co-operation with all in accordance with constitutional and legal solutions, but also in accordance with the will and determinations of all its constituent peoples. Only those activities were those of an internal or external character that rest on the agreement and agreement of all in Bosnia and Herzegovina have a chance of success in favour of and for the benefit of all its citizens. Only in this way will 9 Bosnia and Herzegovina be manifested as a community of equal peoples. We cannot afford any luxury for issues about which there is no full agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina dominate our lives. We need to turn to development projects, cultivate and develop co-operation with everyone, in the first place with our neighbours, but also with those who are willing to build on partner relations. In the domain of the rule of law, we pay special attention to harmonised reforms in the area of justice. We will adopt the revised Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the Law on Courts in BiH in accordance with European standards, implement the measures in the area of criminal proceedings listed in the Action Plan of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and literally implement and improve the rules and on appointment, evaluation of work, integrity and education of judges and prosecutors. Also, we will adopt a revised Strategy for Working on War Crimes cases, and we will revise the laws on executive proceedings in entities and Brcko District, especially in order to reduce the number of pending cases relating to municipal services, freeing courts from the burden of undeniable claims. In the area of the fight against corruption, we will ensure that strategies and action plans to combat corruption are implemented, especially through the provision of adequate resources to establish monitoring mechanisms. We will show progress in achieving results in the prevention and prevention of corruption, in particular by introducing effective sanctions that also have a preventive effect, including confiscation against legally acquired property benefits. In the field of fighting organised crime, we will strengthen co-operation among law enforcement agencies, in particular the establishment of specialised investigation teams for several complex cases involving economic crime, corruption and organised crime, improving mutual access to databases and secure exchange of information, strengthening financial investigations and establishing contact points for firearms. We will fully implement the Agreement on operational co-operation with Evropol and show progress towards establishing a record of investigations, prosecution, final judgments, confiscation and confiscation of property acquired by criminal offences in all cases of organised crime with special focus on money laundering. Relations between individual levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the previous period were based mainly on good personal relations, which is certainly very useful for these levels of government, and I am sure it will be, that this type of co-operation will be its and its coming period. My intention is to further improve institutional co-operation between all levels of government because I am sure good institutional co-operation can unblock and speed up many processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. With this in mind, one of my first activities will be a joint meeting with the president of the Republika Srpska government and the prime minister of the Federation with the aim of finding a firmer and regular co-operation at the institutional level. My intention is to introduce a practice of regular quarterly meetings because I am sure that through joint work and responsible and constructive dialogue we will be able to overcome many open issues. So far, we have held joint meetings of the Council of Ministers of Serbia, the Government of Republika Srpska and Serbia, the Government of Republika Srpska and the Government of the Federation, but never held a meeting of the Council of Ministers and any of the entity governments. We will set up a mechanism for holding joint meetings of the Council of Ministers and Governments for entities in which we will jointly determine how and address problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina and analyse what has already been done. In addition, harmonisation of legal and sub-legislative solutions between different levels of government will make it much easier to create a single economic space in Bosnia and Herzegovina, thus speeding up the flow of goods and services and greater mobility of capital and labour. Full implementation... of the coordination mechanism will allow for the harmonisation of the necessary reform processes, their faster and easier implementation acceptable to all levels of government because the coordination mechanism is a tool that allows for a solution in all situations, and on the other hand enables Bosnia and Herzegovina to speak with one voice towards international financial institutions and the International Community. 10 During the term of office of this Council of Ministers, it happens that the arrangements of the entity government with international financial institutions will be stopped because the Council of Ministers has failed to fulfil one of its obligations, and a harmonised policy between the entity governments will always be the policies of the Council of Ministers. We also want to continue building good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Serbia, Croatia and Montenegro, while addressing open issues on the principles of reciprocity, mutual respect and respect for international rights. I have set out cooperation with international financial institutions and the International Community as a special priority because the period of a year behind us has stopped many reform measures, and slowed down the realization of many policies with international financial institutions, and that is why my intention is to step up our co-operation with international financial institutions and the International Community in the coming period to try to make up for this time that has been missed. It is particularly important for us to unblock projects in the area of infrastructure of transport, primarily, and in the area of energy. Health sector reform and public enterprises reform are top priority of the government of Republika Srpska and the Federation government. The Council of Ministers will provide maximum support to entities implementing these reforms as their implementation will significantly improve the overall fiscal position of not only entities but Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. The migrant crisis has been a very large social crisis for a long time, and above all, the security problem and my view is that the authorities in the previous period have not given them an adequate answer to this growing problem. By reacting to an increase in migration... the BiH authorities have shown significant institutional and co-ordination weaknesses, and migration policy falls under key level jurisdiction in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The crisis response mechanisms related to border control are weak and require significant improvement. An increased inflow of migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2018 and 2019 revealed numerous shortcomings, lack of coordination between different levels of government. Unfortunately, we have failed to ensure effective coordination, adequate border control, identify and register migrants. This issue is made worse by the lack of adequate risk analysis, the exchange of criminal and security data and biometric data. However, given the size of the problem of the migrant crisis, it is clear that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not the one who can solve this problem alone. The key problem is that migrants who almost uninterrupted come to Bosnia and Herzegovina do not own personal documents to determine their identity. These are mostly men of about 35 years of age who enter Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory illegally in violation of international and domestic regulations and, consequently, there is a legitimate fear of being safely interested persons who can be associated with terrorist organisations and participation in foreign wars. Most of these people enter Bosnia and Herzegovina from Serbia, while fewer come from Montenegro. In both cases, different sites are used for entering Bosnia and Herzegovina in a border belt that do not fall within the official border crossings. I can safely say that no body or state can solve this security problem on its own and it is necessary to act together and seek a regional solution. Under these activities it is necessary to strictly comply with the Constitution and the law of the prescribed competences and powers. We all have a professional human and moral obligation to take over everything that is in our power to protect our territory and our citizens and preserve the charred security environment in our country. In resolving this crisis, the joint action of the Co-ordination Body on Migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Coordination Body for the Monitoring of Movements of illegal migrants across the territory of Republika Srpska and the competent entities in the cantons most exposed to needs, problems related to the movement of illegal migrants. We will try to undertake the following activities to improve this situation : additional material and technical equipment by the Border Police and other police agencies that directly provide 11 direct assistance to the Border Police under the signed agreement between them in view of the need for the control of the so-called natural borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia, the control can not give adequate success so far. The funds for these intentions need to be provided from their own budget, but through co-operation with international partners. First of all, it takes the procurement of equipment for day and night observation of different kinds of sensory and... systems for detecting illegal crossings, drones for border control, documentation equipment, field vehicles and so forth. It is also necessary to provide additional financial resources for material costs on the ground, which has been shown to employees in the Border Police and other security agencies. It should continue to assist the border police by the Republika Srpska MUP and all police agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the SIPA, the Directorate for the Co-ordination of Police Authorities in BiH, federal and cantonal MUPs within their territorial jurisdiction. It is necessary to step up co-operation at regional level, as well as co-operation with the International Migration Arganisations. It is vital to protect the eastern border with a basic goal of reducing the inflow of migrants on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. Addressing refugee, displaced persons and returnees must also be a priority in the mandate of the new Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers' activities will focus on three segments. It's a reconstruction of housing units, a sustainable return and electrification. I believe it is high time to complete the reconstruction of housing units for all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When we talk about a segment of reconstruction of housing units, activities will be carried out through several projects that are currently being implemented, and those that will be further needed to implement this process. In order to ensure a sustainable return, we will work to restore municipal and social infrastructure, and the basis of everything must be electrification because today many of the returnees face the problem of electricity shortages. Young, women and other sensitive categories must focus on the Council of Ministers' interest. The large departure of qualified labour remains one of the most urgent and serious challenges for the country. Unfortunately, education still does not provide equal opportunities for everyone, and I think that minority students and disabled ones. The earth still suffers from inconsistencies of skill
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4726	I thank the esteemed Mr. Tegeltija. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of Arnaut. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4727	I thank the chairman. I remind you that Mr. Mektić and I have reported to you about the breach of the Rules of Procedure a long time ago, and I remind you, again, and if I did so at the last session, of the provision of the Rules of Procedure which requires that the word when someone asks for a breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately upon request and I ask you not to violate these obligations. I understand, you are sitting at a meeting of members of the Bosniak College with nine Bosniak votes, versus Niksic's 11, versus Niksic's 15 proboscis, I understand the obligations towards SNSD and HDZ, but I also remind you of the obligations to the Rules of Procedure, which, I hope, are above those others. If you remember, I mentioned two provisions of the Rules of Procedure, 74 and 178. You only showed yourself about 74th and 178th said – that the presence of a member of the Bureau is mandatory. But anyway, now that we've heard the exposés, since you didn't give me your word when you were supposed to, this is a past question, but I'm really asking you not to do this anymore when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4728	Thank you, Your Honor, we will certainly stick to the Rules of Procedure, with a reminder that I am sitting here with almost 40,000 votes, unlike your 4,000 votes, it is a huge difference of nearly ten times, you should be aware of that. Dear Representative Dragan Mektić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4729	Thank you, Chairman, and I welcome my fellow Members and fellow Members and all the distinguished guests and present here. Now, if it's necessary to present and talk about your legitimacy, here's what I'm going to try and say on behalf of almost 30,000 thousand votes that I won in these past elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4730	Excuse me, this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, just tell us which member, and the discussion is later.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4731	Okay, just that... The Rules of Procedure have been injured, but I would just like to say that I have come to the previous issue of the matter and that you have been obliged by the Rules of Procedure to allow each MP to be discussed for up to 3 minutes, and when it comes to infringements of the Rules of Procedure, it is not even limited to the Rules of Procedure. I don't really know, here I voted and I'm not sure exactly what I voted for, uh, because in Rule 74 (1), the Proposer, or the Proposer's representative, is obliged to attend the House sessions. He's in debt, obligatory. Now, can we vote against something that is obligatoryly prescribed as an obligation in the Rules of Procedure, or are we going to get into a situation tomorrow, when we are discussing some laws, that is, doing or not doing things under some laws, that we should vote here to do something besides the law and against the law? 13 So, chairing if he says in his Rules of Procedure "he is obliged", then how can we vote on something, we can only change the Rules of Procedure and say "he can attend". Well, then I agree that he can't, and he can't, but now I think he's talking about it in secret, and I'm talking shit, and I'm pounding like that, and so on. But really if this becomes some kind of practice, uh, violation and derogation of the Rules themselves, which brought this House itself, then it's pointless here at all, uh, to sit down and talk about anything and do anything at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4732	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 74 has four positions, we have called for a position (3) and a position (1). Dear Representative Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4733	Twice, here's the third time you've ignored article 178 that talks about the presence of members of the Bureau and the obligation of one at least. But also Article 80, chairing, I warned you last time, if you want to take part in the debate, give your deputy a word and come out for a pay phone. So, if you're talking about how many votes there are, you took part in the debate, you should have gone out for a pay phone, if you want to open that debate very gladly, so on legitimacy when someone is sitting in Bosniak
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4734	I'm sorry, Mr. Rules of Procedure, for calling in.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4735	Article 80.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4736	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4737	Ah, I need to read to you, I know you don't know these things by heart – if the chairman of the House reviews. Excuse me, participation, section 78. – if he wishes to take part in the debate of the Chairman of the House leaving the presidency, he will go out for a pay phone. Therefore, anything that does not concern the Rules of Procedure, if you want to participate in how many votes you go out for a pay phone, very simply.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4738	Thank you. The esteemed representative Halid Genjac, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4739	I thank the chairman, and welcome all present. 14 In accordance with Article 76(2), I am reacting in terms of correcting the wrong allegation, namely Mr Arnaut in his discussion shared options on Bosniak and proboscis, which is a disastrous insult, a harshly spoken lie, and I think that it is a false assumption that needs to be corrected. So Bosniak voices and proboscis voices are not opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4740	Thank you very much. We are opening a discussion, that is, a discussion about the presentation of the esteemed Mr Tegeltija. First came the distinguished representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4741	Dear Chairman, Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, others present, I warmly welcome you all and wish for a successful work at today's session. I'll try not to use all 10 minutes, but I need to talk about a few topics Mr. Tegeltija mentioned. First of all, I am glad that, although I come from a political party that will be an opposition in this term of office, which has finally taken place in the formation of power and I think we will soon be all witnesses of whether it has to be a year to do this and whether it has been worth a year to get what we're going to get. But I have an obligation today to talk about your exposé. First, you had a year to prepare what you said, in a year it could have been more concrete, so it's not your fault that you had so much time to prepare, but in a year it could have been more concrete. When it comes to economic indicators that you have demonstrated to us, many see you as an economic expert who will make these economic indicators at the end of your term better. So those who support you see you that way. Those who do not support you say you will be remembered as a man whose mandate has failed three banks -- Bobar, Balkan Investment and Bank of Srpske. These people also say that the accounts of these banks left nearly 250 million marks, the money of institutions, public enterprises, and the deposited money of private enterprises, which had to pay deposits to courts, which they had again, say so on your order, so I didn't do research, accounts in these banks. You say that, in accordance with the European Directive, we will amend the VAT Act. I suggest you say that in "welcome", which means specifically. You let the story go according to the directives. What does it mean? Do you want to increase VAT, are you ready to talk about the differential VAT rate, about the zero rate for basic life supplies, learning, school aids and the story we've been talking about for 15 years, but unfortunately we haven't had a conversation about it yet, and say according to Europeans, we should all know what the European VAT Directive is. Come on out and tell us in "good-bye" language what your intention is. Do you intend, as a man who will be asked, to promote the responsibilities of the type of one when you, as Minister of Finance at the Vienna Stock Exchange, are tasked with 170 million at an interest rate that is higher than on the domestic market or are you going to promote some other models? You mentioned the integration program very timidly, but I think it's a good thing you mentioned it. You mentioned European standards and European values. When you talk about it, you must know well that European standards and European values are not determined by you, by me, by 15 or by anyone who sits here, they already exist. When you say that you must be aware and explain, this can be a big thing that will make you more supportive than you think you have in the number of votes today, but just explain to us – do you consider, under European values and European standards, the constitutional organisation of European states where a civil concept is valid throughout Europe, a single person – a single vote? If you confirm that, I don't know what kind of sanctions I can have, but after something like that, maybe I'll consider voting for you. Priorities of the European Commission, you said you supported. Does this mean that you support it because it is modern to support it or that you really support it? Because, specifically, do you support the abolition of the veto right in the vote? Which is one of the demands that you said you supported. Do you support the establishment of the Supreme Court? Which is also a request that you just said you support. Do you support the supremacy of the state? That's what you said, too. So I know that there are a huge number of politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina who support NATO integration without having to do with what NATO integration is and that it doesn't matter what European values are. I would like the chairman of the Council of Ministers not to be one of these politicians and therefore I ask you to explain when you say that you support the priorities of the European Commission, does this mean that you support them out of fashion or what you really think it is necessary and that you will implement what the European Commission's demands are. I would also like to hear, will you respect the BiH Parliament more than you respected the National Assembly of Republika Srpska when you were Minister of Finance there, so when you carried out your duties with the US Investment Fund without the consent of the National Assembly, when Dragan Čavić accused you of it and prepared you for criminal charges, then you annulled that decision? "Official Journal" remembers everything. Will you treat the BiH budget as an Investment Development Bank's means, I'm not just talking about the funds you gave to the Litvanac, but the way these funds are being placed or is it going to be a more responsible relationship? And in the end, when we talk about the budget, I understand that you're pushing for an increase in the budget, and I support it. Because as an economist, you know that from this budgetary framework you cannot do what you have announced, let's say, for the Border Police - the supply of equipment, which I also support and I think is more than necessary. If you support an increase in the budget, it is another thing that deserves the attention of our MPs, even if we should reconsider our views on you. Migrant crisis, did you come here to deploy migrants across the Federation or to finally open your eyes to everyone and say that this is a problem that can only be solved in solidarity? You said you had a professional, human and moral obligation to resolve this issue and that's why I'm asking you this question. And finally, one very simple question – why did you misrepresent your statement when you applied for this job? Why are you asking question number 62, although it tells you here that under the Council of Ministers Act, and also by the Criminal Law of BiH, you are obliged to fill out these forms in full and precisely, and that the derogation will be considered a false statement, which is a criminal offence with criminal responsibility under the BiH Criminal Law. Why did you answer question 62, whether you were sentenced to a criminal offence, with NO when you told us MPs at the Council of Ministers' Selection Commission with DA and explained what was a specific case. This wouldn't cost you your appointment because the law is what it is, but you've broken some other laws without filling out this form correctly. 16 Question 63 – has the indictment ever been confirmed against you? You say no. And then explain to us that you are and that you do not feel morally responsible for being your own private business. That you didn't mention Nor, here I am finishing the last sentence, nor in any way treat the Reform Programme in a substantive sense, and you know well that it is a document that if it hadn't been adopted you wouldn't be sitting there and we wouldn't have this session today and you wouldn't have the opportunity to be called by someone who calls you the chairman of the Council of Ministers. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I think it's unserious, I think it's irresponsible, and I think it confirms my thesis that you'll be patient today just until you're appointed, and until the Council of Ministers is confirmed, and then it'll fall into the water all this stuff you've been saying, because it's certainly a general story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4742	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Mektić, discussion. Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Mektić. Is it a discussion or a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4743	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4744	Injury of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4745	Or, I don't know, to say that I want to ask for something on behalf of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4747	Namely, the exposé lasted, I don't know, 40 minutes, half an hour, it doesn't matter anymore, there's a lot of things in this exposé, I think there's a lot of contradictory things, things that aren't real, and now that I'm not explaining it, I'm on behalf of the Serbian Democratic Party Club and the Party of Democratic Progress, in accordance with Article 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure, asking for a 60-minute break to be delivered to us in writing, so we can prepare for a valid and correct discussion on this exposé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4748	Thank you. So, you can divide the exposés, that depends on who's putting up with the exposés, if you have the exposures that you can copy and divide, that's what you should do and divide the exposés to the MPs. In front of the club you can ask for a break up to 30 minutes, so now it's 11:22, here we go, if you want to continue at 12:00 or ten to twelve. _________(?) 17 [[no microphone turned on]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4750	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome you, all colleagues and colleagues, guests and candidates for the chairman and of course members of the Council of Ministers in the technical mandate. I don't know if there are technical options, and have Mr. Tegeltija's associates prepared an opportunity to print the exposés, but I want to ask myself, did we have a situation every time in the House of Representatives that we have written exposés for the chairman? We were not and it was not a practice and You when you were elected to the Council of Ministers, that is, when the chairman was elected was not exposed in written format in the benches of the House of Representatives. _________(?) No one asked. [[no microphone turned on]] Likewise, when Mr. Bevanda was a candidate, he was not a written document, Mr. Špirić too. So, that's true, I am now not going to enter the candidate's decision for the chairman, Mr tegeltije or technical opportunity, but the parliamentary practice in this House was such that there was never a document written in front of the MPs when the presidential candidate was confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4752	So... my exposé, as I recall, was divided immediately after my presentation to all the MPs. So we can do it in accordance with Article 83(3), if the club of representatives asks for a break that is longer than 30 minutes, we can put it to a vote or say, let's say it starts, that we have a follow-up at 12:00, so whatever you want. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] 12:00 p.m. to ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4756	Yes, Chairman, I've been looking for a break, actually I've explained the reasons for the break before and before, by giving yourself this break You've therefore decided to take a break. In the meantime, we have received written exposés from the esteemed Mr. Tegeltija. And I just wanted to say that, Staši Košarac, it's not true Staša we didn't get written exposés, we from Mr. Zvizdić, when he was...the appointment situation, got the same written exposés, I don't know, I can't come back before. And I wanted to say, in terms of this discussion, that Mr. Denis Zvizdić had exhibits like, we heard this today, I would have asked myself a good question and considered whether he would have agreed to be minister in this Council of Ministers. Mr. Zvizdić had one correct exposé at the time and where he repeatedly pointed out, I remember well, we will do what is the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers, and in no way will we interfere in the entity's jurisdiction. In this exposé it's all messed up, I don't know what the jurisdiction of the state is anymore, what is the jurisdiction of the entity, I have a feeling that in this Council of Ministers, which I don't know how certain it will be, whether it will be, this depends on, from hour to hour, the situation is changing, uh, that, that, uh, it will work out in this way as expressed in this exposé. I suppose a new Council of Ministers will be elected, although many have been afraid of this whole situation and those special sessions of the National Assembly, I have information from OHR that Mr Nebojša Radmanović has gone to OHR three times and was interested in whether it will be.... This is me, he says, a strange game, a dance to be prepared. But here we have no ambition, let me say, we are absolutely determined in that sense to be good and
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4757	....focus on the exposés, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4758	a constructive opposition. I will. I've been listening to these exposés, and I have a few questions for the future chairman of the Council of Ministers. It seems to me that at first you said – I will respect the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH. You did not mention the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I assume you did not mention it, and I suppose why you did not mention it, although I think you should have said that I will respect the Dayton Peace Agreement, respect the BiH Constitution and respect all the laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including those brought by the House of Representatives and here at the state level. But it seems to me that you've consciously dropped the laws because of a member, I think it's article 84. The law on defence, where exactly is it defined that Bosnia and Herzegovina has routed or that is how I say it mapped its way towards NATO, so I am interested – will you respect Mr. Tegeltija's laws, and in particular you would like to respond to the BiH Defence Act? 19 You said that Bosnia and Herzegovina had not formed power for one year but that it was a significant backlog, so you would have to focus hasty on reforms here in Bosnia and Herzegovina to somehow catch up with this lost period. But I would just like to remind you that the government in Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been formed precisely because of the SNSD, which has blocked the work of institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including this Parliament, and how you blocked it that after a year and blocked it when you agreed to this ANP, that is, to activate the MAP, and now we are on a solid and good path to NATO. And here's what I'm saying is that, in the context of Minister Pendeš's statement, which I read in one war, where he says -- Minister Pendeš cooled Dodik by deblocking the establishment of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina's retains NATO's perspective. You said the same thing in your exposé that you are grateful to the leaders for adopting this Annual Action National Plan and that you will follow the guidelines of this Annual Action Plan, so I ask you – does this mean that you will support as the chairman of the Council of Ministers all reforms from the defence sector, will you support all reforms from the security sector that are in this Programme to finally get hold of this, this alliance, or NATO? Will you follow the National Assembly resolution on military neutrality or will you implement reforms that lead us further to NATO path through this MAP? You also said that you would be busy and advocate that Bosnia and Herzegovina will get its candidate status as soon as possible for membership in the European Union, but yet, I think consciously, you are avoiding NATO and given the adopted Reform Programme – will you be obliged to meet all the conditions, all of them, to say so, this Programme, the things listed in this Programme so that we, here, if Bog were to, perhaps next year, get an invitation to officially become a NATO member? When you spoke of the rule of law, you also mentioned here the judiciary, the justice system, the VSTV, the work of judges, the work of prosecutors, etc. You have not excluded anywhere the fact that the conclusions of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska seem to me in this special session to be the last one, in the conclusions there is going to be a procedure and procedure for the return of all the powers that various high representatives or all others have, in one way or another, transferred from Republika Srpska to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, therefore, I am interested – will you support this VSTV for which your political party, which has delegated you here for the chairman council of ministers, has said and will advocate the return of all competences, or will you support further, to say, the work of these institutions that have entered Bosnia and Herzegovina in such a way? It was very indicative of me that you mentioned here the VSTV for which your leader, Milorad Dodik, told me a hundred times that it was an unconstitutional institution, that both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH were unconstitutional and unlawfully formed. And also, when it comes to migration, I'd like to know, you said, one good part of it you devoted to migration there, so you said there's an incoordination, so you said there are, that it's a terrorist threat and you said a number of things, I don't know which non-coordination you meant. We have, here's the end, we have a coordinating body that's composed of all levels of government, I don't know, you haven't explained to me what the terrorist threat is that we haven't had any terrorist incidents. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And when it comes to the assistance of other police agencies, the acceptance of the Operational Agreement with FRONTEX and a series of other measures, a member of the Serbian People's Presidency, Milorad Dodik, blocked everything and one measure when it comes to Here's one more fact, you said you'd be in favour of, just a moment, the adoption of an e-signature law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to deliver only the opinion of the Ministry of Scientific Technology, Higher Education and the Information Society of Republika Srpska. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Mr. Chairman, let me just read one sentence, for all the above 20 ministries, when it comes to giving an opinion on this e-signature law, this Ministry, signed by Master Srđan Rajčević, says – because of all of the above mentioned Ministry of Scientific Technology, Higher Education and the Information Society of Republika Srpska, would consider that the adoption of the same would result in the transfer of competence and could not give consent to the proposed document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4759	Thank you. Representative Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4760	Thank you. Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I listened carefully to Mr. Tegeltija's exposés. I must be honest that, although I have listened to the exposés during these few terms, from Špirić, Bevanda, Zvizdić, of course, here is Mr Tegeltija, and when I summed up today's exposés of Mr Tegeltija, he is still encouraging, encouraging, in the sense that there are many state settings that strengthen the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its institutions, there are many integral elements that he has introduced into this exposé, I say, very encouraging. But here, in preparation for this session, I tried to look for a few, at least some of Mr. Tegeltija's political statements, I couldn't find any that actually says that Mr. Tegeltija is more professional than a politician, which, I suppose, would be good for the chairman of the Council of Ministers. However, the chairman of the Council of Ministers is also a political figure, and it is very important in the constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, if we could isolate Mr. Tegelti from his political boss, I am sure that Bosnia and Herzegovina and this community would be much happier after the term of office of Mr. Tegeltija was completed. Why am I saying this? Because, in fact, if 30% of what we heard today during this three-year period or I don't know how long that mandate will last, then surely it would be a very great success and a shift in strengthening the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its credibility on the international agenda. However, a few things fell into my eye or ear, if that's what I can say or wasn't introduced into this exposé, or at least I find it unclear in this exposure to what was thought. We all know that the BiH Presidency adopted an act called the BiH Defence Reform Programme and which is not yet available to the public, I do not understand whether this act was available to Mr Tegeltija during the construction of this exposé and whether it will, in fact, be the basis of his future work in the next few years. Why am I saying this? Because I have a feeling it's important to appoint a Council of Ministers here, to finally start a blockade. Bosnia and Herzegovina institution. Why? Because, based on previous years' experience, we had an exozee, we had Council of Ministers' work programmes, but in realisation, it was a very low percentage of the issues that were outlined. That is why it is very important to me that Mr. Tegeltija, in his final address when he answers all the MPs, answers some questions that I am very interested in. Among other things, I am interested, and it is said in the exhibition that the BiH Constitution will be respected, will the decisions of courts and all levels of concern be respected, here, the Council of Ministers, which of the domestics, which of the international ones? Will the flag law be respected, or will we actually have some drama again, if I may say so, as with the flag in the BiH presidency? Will genocide be denied in Srebrenica even though it is the International Court's verdict? Will he, as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, visit the Potocari as a paradigm of injuries in Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus 21 send a peaceful message to our citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina and beyond? Will it begin with its actions and political statements to respect the equality of all three peoples and citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina or, in the spirit of their political chief, will they continue to demean and humiliate, even dispute the fundamental human rights and freedoms of all in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnian language, people, ethnicity, even religious freedoms, insulting in the most unprincipled way or will the Council of Ministers use only for financial dealings under the orders of the leader? Will Bosnia and Herzegovina be respected as a state, or will the long politics of its boss be insulted, unencumbered and destroyed by its reputation and credibility both on the internal and international terms? I didn't see in this exposé that would provide political stability and, of course, institutional security which is the basis for any serious story about the development of the Bosnian Herzegovina society as a whole. Will the procedure again send a contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Community, which is a stumbling block in relations, if I may say so, between the states and the Islamic Community? Will the parliamentary procedure send a restitution law which is a major and difficult political issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina? In one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the property of those who claim to do so, so through history has already been distributed, not to say robbed or not to use some more difficult term? Then, the lustration law, we would have had much less political problems and political conflicts today if, perhaps, twenty years ago, we had passed this law, but obviously it was... a need for bh society. Will Mr. Tegelti, in his work, represent the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina or Serbia, and even Croatia, given the love of leaders in Bosnia and Herzegovina? What will be done in the sense of creating policies to stop the outflows of personnel and labour from Bosnia and Herzegovina? I couldn't recognize it in this exposé. Will it be taken into account and the fight against fake diplomas and the involvement of such experts and personnel who destroy the system and the reputation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? And in this exposé, you said one false fact, that unemployment is 36%, and it's actually 18.2% on the World Bank's standards, is it actually an apparent creation of a bad picture that, after a few years, you've had something to brag about, and we haven't actually achieved anything? Another question as finance minister of the smaller bh entity, what was your role in the destruction of the Export Credit Agency, IGA? As finance minister, you have played a significant role and influence, if I may say so, in the business and operation of this Export-Credit Agency, and I will remind you that this agency has given guarantees to the UIS Dervent tube factory and that in this way it has actually brought itself into a very invisible position, and I believe that today is still in a difficult situation because it can no longer guarantee anything? What will Mr. Tegeltija stand for in terms of building a fairer society? I didn't fully understand when it comes to the VSTV and the reform of the judiciary, the opening of the OHR, the drive of foreigners and the Constitutional Court, or will they approach this business responsibly, seriously and with full respect for every man? In addition, you have played a significant role in defining the fiscal framework that has been limited since 2010 until today, when it comes to the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it seems to me in the same framework, and you say that public sector wages will be limited, so they are already limited and with this fiscal framework we will actually come into a situation that no one will want to compete for public sector work when it comes to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We already have police officers who are leaving, we already have professional soldiers who are leaving, we already have competitions that no one is responding to, precisely because this defined fiscal framework has limited the salaries of these employees, and because of that, we actually have a very massive outflow of personnel. I'm not clear about the VAT increase, someone already mentioned it here. If this is a European norm, I couldn't find it anywhere by now, that the European norm is a alignment of VAT rates with countries in the European Union, here in the region. It is a matter of domestic nature, domestic politicians and domestic institutions and against the possibility of funding institutions that are necessary For the effective functioning of the state, I think you have to be more clear here, that it doesn't happen to us, here I'll end up quickly, that it doesn't happen to us like with excise duties, and today 22 huge assets are being held captive, we can't agree on the distribution of those funds, and of course, we're just raising loans and paying huge interest. [[the speaker is warned on time]] About the migrant crisis, there's already been talk about it. This exposé is great for the public and, as I said, I have listened to such fine exposés, but I ask you to really do your best to implement those measures that you gave us in your exposé and that Bosnia and Herzegovina is actually a happy and satisfied society after the term that you, here, are going to have these three years. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4761	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4762	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I will in the next few minutes look back at certain parts of the exposé, but only in the context of strategic levels in that text itself. Of course, the final assessment of the work itself and of the chairman and future Council of Ministers of BiH will be given on the basis of the work, not on the basis of what was written, but regardless, I want to look back from the strategic level on several segments of what we heard in the exhibition. I think it is extremely important that we immediately heard in the first sentence of the exhibition that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers will be attached to the principle of rule of law. In light of that written and said, I have no dilemma that this implies and that this means respect for both the BiH Constitution and all applicable laws in this country. From the point of view of security challenges and co-operation with the NATO Alliance, which is a particular chapter within the exposé, I am pleased to hear that, as you have said, the starting point will be the Bosnia and Herzegovina Reform Programme, which is a strategic document adopted unanimously by the BiH Presidency, which is its jurisdiction, given that it is issues from the foreign policy domain of BiH. So it's very important that we also heard that you wrote that the basis for this type of co-operation with the NATO alliance in the coming period will be this strategic document. Also, it was very important to me that the question that you addressed and mentioned in your exhibition, that there are certain shortcomings, therefore we all know that there are certain shortcomings in the BiH Constitution and the BiH Election Law, so that there are certain elements of discrimination against the citizens of this country and it is very important that you have noted that the starting point or that the reference document on these issues will be the opinion of the European Commission. So this is a document that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina received from the European Commission regarding the continuation of its path to the European Union, i.e. the acquisition of candidate status. Why am I stressing this? Because in this very document, the European Commission's opinion explicitly states that any future changes to the BiH Constitution and the BiH Election Law should be done in accordance with European standards and in accordance with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. So, it will be our basis for these future changes that Bosnia and Herzegovina must do sooner or later to become, before it becomes a full member of the European Union. Then you mentioned the part that speaks of socio-economic reforms, of course, a very important topic for Bosnia and Herzegovina and all its citizens, you referred to a document which is the continuation of socio-economic reforms in the now new timeframe 2019-2022, and in this sense would highlight three chapters or three areas that you highlighted in your exposé, and I also appreciate that they are of strategic importance for improving economic opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. whether, Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy. This, you said, is strengthening the institutional 23 capacities of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the following two areas – agriculture and rural development and energy. I agree that and I think that you correctly detected these two areas as strategically important because I think that agriculture and rural development given the potential that this country has in terms of possible and potential use of pre-accession funds of the European Union is completely, therefore, unused, and agriculture and rural development and energy are, in my opinion, two strategic industrial branches of the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are not sufficiently exploited and there is a huge potential to advance these two industries in the coming period, i.e. these two sectors where the huge economic benefits will be, therefore, all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the people who live here. And the third segment that you mentioned in addition to agriculture and rural development and energy, which is also strategic and operational, given that it was in those first measures of socio-economic reform, '18-'22, therefore, from the mandate behind us, and you emphasized it, there should be a final story, and that is the tax relief of the economy. I think that we have missed the opportunity to resolve this issue in the previous period and given that the real sector and businesses in this country can no longer, simply endure the non-competitive or excessive tax burden they have in terms of labour costs, and we all know how acute the problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy is in terms of one part and the departure of labour and that in terms of underpaid labour in terms of low income that people have in the real sector. I am encouraged that in co-operation with entity governments in whose jurisdiction this set of fiscal laws is to end this story and that, finally, whether, and when we do so, we will open up space to really increase the real employment in this country and to improve the material status of the real sector in terms of the growth of personal income, which is a dry need currently in the real sector. Finally, taking into account all of the above, these were, therefore, just what I consider to be strategic segments or strategic issues in your exposé, and I am fully aware that, whether this will be elaborated with concrete measures through what will come soon, and this is the work programme of the BiH Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4763	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Zukan Helez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4764	I thank Mr. Chairman, chairman, representatives of the International Community, media representatives, ladies and gentlemen. Here, after a very, very long time, about 420 days, we came into a position to have exposures, to have some kind of political agreement, a framework, to have a formed majority and to hear from the first human executive government of BiH what it plans to do in the next three-year term, is it? I have to admit that, listening to the exposés, that the first part is that of the situation, the second part of what is going to be done indicatively, but what is missing most of the exposure programs in this country is how to do and how. Mr. Tegeltija, you weren't very confident when you read it, you didn't even try very well to learn it, so at one point I thought someone was writing to you and you were reading it. You've often been stuttering, which you've noticed, you've been giving out insecurity, even at one point I thought it was written by your boss of the party, and when you said that you would especially protect the eastern borders, then I saw that it wasn't him, because that's 24 li, there's actually a completely different perception when it comes to the eastern borders than what you've brought out here. I will refer to several key issues, in my opinion, issues and what is of national importance and what you can realistically influence, what you can influence, whether, in your term of office. First, you said judicial reform, and you know, and we all know there's a chapter here that we'll open at some point, about crime and corruption and judicial reform, without it, there's no European Union. I ask you, in fact, here is the main problem of the judiciary because it is a strong political influence of the ruling structures on the judiciary. I ask you publicly - are Tegeltija ready to propose a reform of the judiciary to relieve the problems of politics? Are you ready to be Jadranka Kosor in Croatia, hypothetically, to stand by the judiciary, to arrest your boss if he deserves it legally? I want you to answer me, and if you're willing to do that, not just the head of your party, but any other political organization if there's any criminal record, and if you say it publicly at the pay phone, I'm willing to support you as a prime minister. VAT, it's something that's state and often in the media we've read, and you've mentioned, uh, that there's going to be a little change in that law, and I guess, since you're this coalition that's formed, then you weren't all in power, it's a so-called excise coalition. Then those who were opposition from the SNSD supported amendments to the Excise Act and the Excise Excise Increase, and I don't see that we have any use for that. You've announced major construction sites, that Bosnia and Herzegovina will build the highways quickly, but I don't see it. I'm afraid you won't increase, in fact, that you want to increase VAT, and that the goal ahead of local elections is to raise a little more money, and I remind you, the VAT increase is mostly to the detriment of the poorest in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina because the increase in VAT increases consumption. And that would be an additional blow to the poorest layers of society in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You didn't mention the armed forces reforming the armed forces. You know that there is one treaty signed by Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia-Montenegro over the arms balance. That was '97. years in Vienna. As far as I follow, Serbia and Croatia are constantly arming each other, and Bosnia and Herzegovina taps in place. As a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I fear such imbalances because I will remind you, no neighbouring country is likely to buy weapons for China and New Zealand. Getting back a little bit in history, I'm afraid of such a imbalance. Will you modernise the Armed Forces of BiH because today we have employees, soldiers, officers, whatever you want to call them, leaving the Armed Forces. Equipment, food, are very bad, weapons not to speak, do you plan in budgets to strengthen weapons, to strengthen the Armed Forces of BiH? You didn't mention election law, it's also in your jurisdiction and our jurisdiction. If the same Electoral Law remains, I don't know if it's worth the election to go out, so I'm afraid unless the election law changes, and VAT increases, that the election's over. And finally one question, in a serious state, this would be an unserious question, and in this country it's very serious. I ask you publicly to tell me about the pay phone – do you love the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because if we have the chairmanship who will come back, he will be the chairman, who says publicly that he does not love her, we have a head of executive who does not love her, if he does not love her, then we have an ugly and sad perspective. So I ask you to tell us in public - do you love this country where you live? This is only because you and the state were born in the same city, which is Mrkonjić grad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4765	Thank you very much. 25 Dear Representative Mirko Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4766	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues. I might be able to talk more about some details in these ten minutes or maybe less, because basically it's a matter or the truth is in the details, and I've carefully recorded them in the presentation of the esteemed Mr. Tegeltija, and I'd like to get answers at the end of that detail, because they're essentially important to me. I will begin by saying that you are attached to the rule of law and the Constitution mentioned 15 times in your address, but you have not once mentioned that you are attached to the laws, or to the respect of existing laws, and many of us want to hear that word from you. I, of course, since you didn't mention it, have the right to think that you're not sure about this answer or that the answer would be problematic, but you deny me, and if you're sure about those answers, you can take them out and say them. Also, you've been talking about a few areas, I will, not in the same order, but let me say some of my observations and some of the details that I can do later, because this will be part of your program to have much greater significance. You said that the existing government at the state level didn't give good results and that one of the problems was lack of capacity, which is true, but in that context you only mentioned cantons, but not entities. I would ask you to be quite precise in this regard, as well as in matters relating to strengthening borders on several occasions, you spoke of it, and institutions that need to be gathered in a way to strengthen these borders, but you said and mentioned the Federal Ministry and the Cantonal Ministry, but in accordance with territorial jurisdiction. That means maybe one of the answers that was accurate but I want to emphasize it. You also mentioned energy, but in terms of above all, in terms of necessity with the start of the investment cycle in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this area which, I agree with, but probably did not give a precise answer in any way, and I will remind you that for the investment process above all using some of the funds that you mentioned, it is necessary to pass a law on electricity but also solve the gas issue. First of all, we expect that we have a clear answer, meaning not what we need to do, but as chairman of whether you are in favour of the issue of gas and regulation and some of the most important issues in the area of gas, gas areas are resolved through this law at the state level. You also mentioned agriculture and, in my view, you gave a significant space, quite rightly, and you mentioned in this sense the necessity of attracting funds and particularly regulation through IPARD structure and pre-accession funds in the area of agriculture used by some countries in the region, but you did not give proposals for a solution. I will mention it to you, how we can get funds, but you, we expect you to say, yes, I am prepared for such a thing, and that is a question that concerns European standards and three laws in agriculture, veterinary and food safety against which you voted in the Government of Republika Srpska. Did you change your attitude in that sense and say yes, I am ready for this challenge because in this way we will come to this money as well as a key issue relating to the paying agency, whether one or two, you have represented the position that it is necessary to have two agencies, and if we have two agencies there will be no funds from these pre-accession funds. I, I'm not telling you, I'm not giving you an answer, but I expect you to hear from me what variant you're ready for in that sense that you're standing up for, because the Council of Ministers is the right place for that debate. And now that issue that concerns NATO and co-operation with NATO, and unlike some others, I do not think that the issue is mentioned in the exposé, the reforms involved are mentioned, not in defence, but in the reforms relating to the approximation of the European Union. About NATO, in my opinion, you only said one sentence, which is that we need to have co-operation in accordance with our own interests, and continued, and the agreement and agreement of all on this issue. So, in my opinion, 26 I'd like to stress, so the question of this document to the Bureau, or maybe I haven't remembered it enough. In my opinion, this important question is missing some of the answers we want to hear from you. All of us here fellow MPs or most of us want the same goal, means your clear position whatever he may be, and the answers must be completely unequivocal, and in that sense, in my opinion, Mr. Tegeltija, it is hard for you to be able to hide behind the already used wings that you will work in accordance with the Constitution because the Council of Ministers says that the Council of Ministers will lead all the necessary activities to join Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Law on Defence, but also all the security and defence and other rephombs that come in line. That points me to, about Mr. Tegeltija's earlier, that if you're going to work on the defence reform plan, then it's time for you to say it here and be part of your exposé. If you're not going to work, if you're not willing to move to the Action Membership and NATO Programme, if you remain attached to the National Assembly resolution, then you should say so. There's no such thing as me or the middle, or you're working on the MAP or not, and you have to say it here today for the sake of all of us's clean bills. So I ask you clearly – will Tegeltija work on the reform programme if it means the activation of the MAP, or the NATO Membership Action Plan? Don't repeat the already learned wing we've heard, so the Constitution and some similar things and the rule of law. If BiH is in progress, the second question concerns, among other things, that if Bosnia and Herzegovina is invited to join NATO during your term, will you turn to the National Assembly and ask for an opinion from it, or ask for a referendum in Republika Srpska? I'm just asking you to say yes or no. So far, here we are, so esteemed chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4767	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Adil Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4768	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4769	I'm sorry, I didn't see, excuse me, MP Stevandić has a wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4770	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Mektić mentioned it in a similar context to the Reform Programme and the ANP, and I don't think it's central, but it's an important question, as you said, Mr. Šarović. But I also think that this is not just a question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers and that this Parliament can discuss it objectively at some point, at a special session. And most importantly, what three members of the Bureau have signed in this document that some have seen, some have not, some are suggesting, that... The reform programme and not to prejudge NATO membership as one important thing. And the second thing, in my opinion, is that new decisions will be made. So I don't want to ignore the fact that it says in Article 84 of the Constitution, that is, the Law of Defence of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, all entities of defence within... constitutional and legal jurisdiction will carry out the necessary activities for the admission of Bosnia and Herzegovina to NATO. I will also not ignore that the document, which 27 adopted by the previous meeting of the Presidency and the Council of Ministers... did not challenge 2018. .... The foreign policy strategy, which discusses continuing to carry out activities in relation to NATO, remains the priority of institutions. Mostly.... activities are focused on the activation and implementation of the MAP, so these decisions on the MAP have already been made in the previous session. Now, since we in Republika Srpska are all calling for a resolution of the National Assembly, and since new decisions will be made, as it is said, it would be fair not to use this for each other's bickering here, or for you and Mr. Tegeltija, or for me to be honest with you. So, this is about, if we're making new decisions, new decisions are made here in this House, and there's this entity vote here, and there are four representatives of the Serb people in your club. in our 9, I apologize for ending this very quickly, and so if we are against voting, we will vote for military neutrality and there will be 10 of us, and we will not bicker about it, if you and the four of you will vote for ANP, and we will vote for military neutrality when the BiH Presidency makes no decisions unless Mr Dodik are voted on, he will call this National Assembly and the National Assembly will be convened within 72 hours and that issue will also be resolved under the BiH Constitution. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's what I mean. Set it clear, and make this a bickering, too, that it doesn't make any sense. [[the speaker is warned on time]] New decisions will be donosići, will be made here in the Presidency and the National Assembly will be included, I think it is and that it's out of these, let's say, each other's plantings. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4771	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirko Šarović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4772	Thank you, Your Honor. I didn't want anything but to hear from Mr. Tegeltija about how he would behave, that... what I think about it or you, so it's completely irrelevant, we'll talk here or somewhere else, just care about what Mr. Tegeltija thinks, but I want a clear and precise answer and nothing more. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4773	Thank you. Dear representative Marinković.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4774	Adil Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4775	Adil Osmanović, yes, yes, sorry Adil Osmanović, since we did.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4776	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished and esteemed guests. 28 We have had the opportunity to listen to the exposés of the future Council of Ministers, what we will surely all agree is that it is an exposé that is well-delivered, did not enter into some difficult political topics and gave space to both entities and cantons as the Constitution of BiH predicts, one co-operation to achieve better programmes, decisions etc. This is an opportunity to give some suggestions to a critical approach to the exposé, to present the problems facing society in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially as Mr Tegelti said that this is not the Council of Ministers' work programme in the coming period, but that the work programme will be done when the Council of Ministers is set up. I will Složić with those who said it was also good that Mr Tegeltija pointed out that he would adhere to the rule of law, the Constitution and the law passed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Of course, that what Tegeltija also said, it is not good that we had a delay in forming government in Bosnia and Herzegovina for one year, especially the blockade of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but I would like to point out on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action that we were ready to get as soon as possible to form a Council of Ministers in accordance with the Constitution, law and respect for all those strategies brought by the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and here took a long time to come up with a document called the Reform Programme, which, according to our assessment, is quite enough, what we pointed out before, and I can say about this document that it is also good for Bosnia and Herzegovina and good for all its citizens. I will refer to a few things that Mr. Tegeltija said here, what my colleagues said, because we were in this period in the Council of Ministers and we were able to see and compare what is, where the problems are when it comes to the opinions we ask of the Government of the Federation and the Government of Republika Srpska and where, in my opinion, they were purely political or no serious reasons because these opinions were too late. Here I will start with the migration you were talking about, that you need to find additional funding to help the border police, in which we fully agree, to include all levels of government, in which we also agree, and I hope that you will do everything possible in the area of Republika Srpska's entity, we have acceptable camps and centres where these people who come to Bosnia and Herzegovina would settle. And it was particularly good news that you said you needed to include all the MUPs in Bosnia and Herzegovina from the cantonal, entity, to help the state border police, which is in some way new compared to what we could hear from your SNSD president who opposed it. I will say something about the problem of a single economic space, which is what my colleague Šarović was talking about. One of the priorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the establishment of a single economic space to remove all obstacles to the free movement of goods and services. The establishment of a single economic space that represents territory without internal borders or other regulatory barriers to the free movement of goods and services is one of the conditions that Bosnia and Herzegovina should do in order to become an EU member. We asked for certain opinions from the Republika Srpska government, and as my colleagues said, we did not get, we were surprised, some of them who did not support moving in that direction. Some of the problems that need to be solved are: 1. The need to stop as soon as possible that there are double licences of 2nd administrative barriers in entities 3. contradictory laws and 4th regulatory frameworks between different competences. As far as the energy sector is concerned, it is known that Bosnia and Herzegovina has a comparative advantage in the energy sector, especially in the area of hydropower. By active action in the Energy Community of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it confirms its commitment to reform the energy sector, liberalising the energy market, harmonising its policy with the members of the 29 European Union. Although Bosnia and Herzegovina is an exporter of electricity, the development of the electricity market with its neighbours makes it difficult for the absence of a fully harmonised legislative framework. Bosnia and Herzegovina should ensure coordination with the Third Energy Package as soon as possible in order to establish a functional internal energy market with electricity, and therefore we propose that the following: 1. adopt legal frameworks for gas and electricity in accordance with the Third Energy Package 2 adopt state and entity laws in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency in line with the obligations arising from the Energy Community Treaty. I'm glad that in your exposé, too, you spoke about social issues and the issues of the number of unemployed. I'm glad to hear you said there was an increase in the number of employees during this term of office and a reduction in the number of unemployed. But your data that you said today in Bosnia and Herzegovina is unemployed 35.8% question. According to data from the World Bank and the IMF, the unemployment rate in Bosnia and Herzegovina is 18.2% with a decline trend. This should be pointed out and should be seen about how such different data occurred. What I have been doing for the past three years has failed to obtain the consent of the Republika Srpska government, it is the creation of a employment strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the next 4 years. By 2019 alone, Bosnia and Herzegovina lost 20m euros in grants because we did not have this strategy. I'd like to say something about fighting crime. I am pleased that you have given a lot of space and this problem, but it is clear to all of us that the spread of corruption in the region is one of the key challenges and requirements for accession to the European Union. The implementation of a wide range of anti-corruption reforms is among the priorities for the Western Balkan countries, it is also recognised at all meetings held with EU and Western Balkan representatives. In order to help address the problem of corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we should, above all, have a strong judiciary that is independent, impartial, effective and responsible, but also that law enforcement agencies have the capacity, necessary financial resources and any kind of support to fight corruption and organised crime. We therefore propose this: 1st adoption at all levels of government and support the implementation of a new state-wide strategic framework for public administration reform 2. independence of the judicial system and support the implementation of strategic documents in this area and 3rd amendment of the laws in the field of combating corruption in order to ensure an effective, effective resolution of conflicts of interest, and to ensure the application of regulations that ensure the protection of those who report corruption, as we say whistlers.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4777	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Before that, he's correcting the wrong quote of Zukan Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4778	The Honorable Chairman, for the second or third time, is being repeated or is partly said in the World Bank and International Monetary Fund Report. It is true that 30 unemployment rates have been reduced, but in the last one, more than 200,000 people have left this term of office, which is the wave of people who were on the unemployment records, and this has contributed to a reduction in the unemployment rate, not some spectacular results of this previous government. Let me just say what's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4779	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4780	I welcome all those present, and regarding the subject's exposure, I'd like to refer to a few things. I would first of all ask Mr. Tegelti – how will he deal with future work when it comes to what he says are issues that are not fully agreed in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Because the exposé is said, of course here in the NATO chapter, but we can apply this to the increasingly important areas of functioning of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, he said, says -- we cannot afford any luxury that issues about which there is no full consent in BiH dominate our lives. Unfortunately, we do, therefore, and how is it expressed that we do not have the same thinking and full agreement on the really important issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina, starting with the Constitution, so I would ask – how, therefore, will the chairman of the Council of Ministers treat these issues? Because we are witnessing that we are constantly speaking, and above all the party chief, so the party from which he comes, that the interests of entities are represented, and not the interests of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since I come from a city where there's a migrant crisis and how it's already become a big problem, and it's not being solved, namely I come from Tuzla, I have to give this question some attention. In fact, it is said in the exposé that it is vitally important to protect the eastern border and that is mentioned here several times, but I would, therefore, specifically ask. First of all, we are also aware of the facts and we could all, therefore, notice that Mr. Dodik has changed opinions as usual and that, in the present resolution of the migrant crisis, he has absolutely not agreed in any way to resolve this issue and I am interested in it, so – what is the spotting action, therefore, in order to preserve the eastern border? Because from some politicians in Republika Srpska we hear that they do not want to close the border with Serbia, neither do we, but here we must stress that this is about preventing illegal entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina from the direction of the eastern neighbour. So every day a growing group of migrants arrive in Tuzlo, so they come, we get the impression that they are deliberately released and so I ask – what will be done now and immediately to approach the solution of this issue? Because also an increase in border police is something that requires time and, therefore, will continue to allow for the inflow of migrants into Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I want a concrete question, a concrete answer to the question -- what will be done immediately to prevent the illegal entry of migrants into BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4781	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mira Pekić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4782	31 Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members, honored guests. I listened very carefully to Mr. Tegeltia's presentation and I will look only at some things that I have left unclear and that I expect to get an explanation for. In the presentation of Mr Tegeltija, I remained unclear about the BiH institutions' budget, Mr Tegeltija said – reforms are announced, i.e. announced reforms mean a stable budget for BiH institutions. It is unclear whether the budgetary framework for the financing of BiH institutions so far remains the same, or whether it will increase. The position so far and the MPs from your political party were that the framework, that it could not be changed and that it was quite enough or thus an increase in this budget for the financing of BiH institutions had been reduced by the entity's budget. On the other hand, it is not mentioned in your presentation or the role of the BiH institutions' audit office. I believe that the role of the Office for the Auditing of Institutions is significant in all reform processes, because its task is to disclose how the taxpayers' money is spent, to point out all shortcomings and weaknesses. On the basis of their reports, responsibilities can also be initiated and that is the institution's task. I will remind you that in 2017, the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska received a negative opinion from the auditors, the Chief Audit Service of the institutions, and as a result both the main auditor and his deputy were replaced. The Republika Srpska's main audit service found that the Republika Srpska government was taking loans on behalf of public funds without their knowledge, and that things are deficits in Republika Srpska's 175m converting marks budget, not 45m as shown by the finance ministry. I'm afraid this not to mention an auditor in your report is also a message to them for their work. The other thing I'm going to talk about is the fiscal burden. In your exposé, you said that in co-operation with entity-level authorities you would take decisive steps towards reducing the tax burden of work to boost competitiveness and allow for further pay increases. I'm afraid these decisive steps will not be a transfer of jurisdiction, do we know that the entity's jurisdiction is a tax burden. Then, speaking of value added tax, you said that in order to improve the business environment and strengthen the single economic space, you would insist that the VAT issue procedure be reduced and that you would improve the collection of indirect taxes. There is no word in your presentation on the possibility of extending the period of payment of VAT at the end of the month, which has been largely discussed and this is the requirement that the economy sets. In this way, the economy could be relieved, which is also the responsibility of both the Council of Ministers and institutions and this level of government. The VAT collection in Bosnia and Herzegovina is functioning and has been widely discussed since recently on an increase in VAT rates. For this increase, here I am at the SDS and PDP Club, we think it takes an analysis that will give arguments both for and against. The increase in VAT, the increase in VAT rates, of course, will lead to an increase in prices and goods and services and may lead to a decline in consumption and it is never known whether this increase in VAT will lead to a reduction in the base through this decline in VAT accounting consumption and, on the other hand, increase the grey economy. I haven't heard a single word about synchronising the coefficients of distribution of revenue from indirect taxes. Republika Srpska has sued the Federation of BiH for 34,571,000 KM for the July 2017 period until the end of 2018. In the event that the distribution of income is not done in a fair and regular manner, there may be fiscal instability that can lead to the current distribution with the provisional coefficients and I think that should be taken into account. And another thing you mentioned is that the deposit insurance law will finally be passed, which will circle the framework for the resolution of banks in accordance with the Deposit Insurance Directive and the Bank Recovery and Rehabilitation Directive. I will remind you that through the collapse of banks, we have lost huge money from public government institutions and in particular 32 Investment-Development Bank of Republika Srpska. This clearly indicates that the work of regulatory institutions has not been good in the past and at the same time those who managed these institutions have not taken account of where they deposit money, i.e. in the case of the Republika Srpska Investment and Development Bank, not only where they deposit money, but also of whose actions and bonds they buy. To save at least private banks, Republika Srpska's IRB has given money to the capital of these banks through the purchase of priority actions without management rights and bonds. In the end, all those banks fell apart again. These facts are also aware of international lenders and international financial institutions that will not enter into credit arrangements, and that previously, and you know it, do not agree on any new cuts and set some new requirements. Whether one of them will be a unique supervisory or whether reforms of the Republika Srpska Investment and Development Bank will be sought to make it difficult to credit the Republika Srpska economy. And last – will the number of public administration employees be sought, and you mentioned a public administration reform that probably means reducing the number of employees? And in the end, is everything I've just said going to be covered by the planned VAT increase, so eventually it's going to be the state to deal with surplus employees through severances that will be paid out of funds collected based on a higher VAT rate?
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4783	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nermin Nikšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4784	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. And, here, as most of my predecessors, I would like to show the satisfaction that we are finally putting this House into office, that today we are in a position to discuss the appointment of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. I must also point out, to be absolutely fair, that I have a very positive experience in co-operation with Mr. Tegeltija as finance minister in Republika Srpska's government during the period when we were able to co-operate and I hope that this experience will continue in this period ahead of us because it is obvious that today, one year after the elections, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina really deserve to get power and that there is a majority needed to move in that direction. What I'm going to do in my presentation, I'm going to try to focus only on exposés, fully aware of myself, and probably everyone present, that Mr. Tegeltija could have said three sentences, could have said this as much as he said, and could have said three more times as much, there's a majority needed to elect the chairman of the Council of Ministers and that's just what we need to respect and adhere to. Of course, there's an opportunity for MPs to say the same. So anything said in this exposé certainly wouldn't determine his fate as a candidate and that's it. However, I must now say that I am surprised and that a little, if he were disturbed, I would say, credibility with the fact, here I will try, therefore, the first sentence after a pay phone after a greeting – I want to point out right at the beginning that I am fully attached to the principle of rule of law, and then it is shown that this form is filled with false and untrue data. I repeat, and that the correct data wouldn't certainly disrupt this, but it certainly disrupts and compromises a man as a candidate and, in fact, it troubles everything else you said and what you stated in this exposé that, I must say, if it's a real intention to perform and work, is, it has my support. Enough experience Mr. Tegeltija has that what are the biggest political problems and the stumbling block he was has actually only been able to obtain the issue of NATO and the reform programme, 33 and I belong to those people who may indeed be naive, but I want to believe that the reform programme actually, by its content, is a national action plan. Mr. Tegeltija has given quite enough indication that he'll be carrying out what he writes, because like him, he doesn't know what's out there. But I, see, I want to act on that folk thing, that smart and sharit is enough and, in fact, it's not a key question for me here whether what's in it is going to be implemented and whether it's an action plan. Here is the key question of how sincere and determined you are to implement reforms or is this really just a beautifully wrapped colourful lie to bring about the formation of the Council of Ministers, and then again each side of the barricade. That's why nobody can't even claim it right now, so we're making our views known, so as they say, they were alive and seen. I want to make it very clear here and underline everything that comes from law to decision on the path of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Union and NATO Pact will have the support of the SDP MPs, regardless of what we have chosen to do in this term, to be an opposition without any dilemma. I want to encourage you to do this as soon as possible. The single economic market, reducing the tax burden on labour, increasing wages, improving the business environment, improving budget planning, limiting employment and wage expenditure and overall public sector salary spending. However, we have fenced ourselves here with the support of international financial institutions because there are few elections to go so that it is not the position of those who sit in the Council of Ministers, the protection of domestic economy, especially agricultural production, I must admit that this all sounds very good to me. Most of these issues have our support, but I must also note what my colleagues and colleagues before me have said, that most of these issues have been a stumbling block so far, i.e. the subject of a dispute when it comes to political parties and relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly as regards the competence of entities and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. To be clear, I would sincerely like to support and support all the reforms mentioned here because they would certainly be in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and themselves, strengthening the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, I have to say that I am a skeptic that it will really be and that we will follow whether this is happening because I am afraid that it will not be in that people's room too – I hope your daughter will take you. I am pleased that a special chapter in the exposé is dedicated to the agriculture and rural development sector, and I would, behold, take the opportunity to encourage the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers to propose the introduction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development into the Council of Ministers and will therefore have our undeniable support. Unfortunately, I have to note that, despite the fact that you have cited the indisputable indicators of the international financial institutions on Bosnia and Herzegovina and before you have put the co-operation with them into the priority of the future Council of Ministers on them, you have called on them when it comes to the administration and the restriction of the administration, but in the meantime you have said that, regardless of their views, on their indicators, their documents are better and more beautiful. And it creates a dilemma for me whether citizens should trust their eyes, their lives, or yours. It's true that here in this room we live much better than most citizens. This does not mean, however, that we need to convince them that they are much better off than they think. After all, you've cited that out of 144 countries we're 140 per brain drain, that's a very ugly sentence, a brain drain, but that's how it works. People aren't leaving because they're so good, are they? In fact, there should be a demand for a reduction in the number, which Helez spoke of, a reduction in the number of unemployed due to the exodus of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina regardless of national or entity membership. That's why I don't think any beauty can lead to us running away, that by all the comparative indicators and parameters that are being monitored last or at the very bottom, even from those countries that we often... mention. I was particularly intrigued by the chapter on the adoption of a new tax law on additional value where it was silenced what it means, in which direction it will go, whether it means introducing 34 differentiated rates, whether we have it or we will only have an increase of what colleague Magazinović was talking about, so I will not, uh, wait to see what's here and if it is on this background, it can, the background of introducing differentiated rates, expect some of our support. And finally, I would really like to explain how they think and where to put the funds for planned reforms, how to equip the required services, to get the equipment from drones that I don't know what, what is mentioned here, and can we expect an increase in the indicative budget that hasn't changed, I would like to correct Mr. Mehmedović, I think since 2012, when it was established by the Fiscal Council in which Mr. Bevanda and I as minister of finance were also Mr. Tegeltija, who we were sitting in as Mr. Bevanda, Mr. Džombić and I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4785	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Predrag Kojović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4786	I thank the chairman. Really appreciating time, I will throw out everything my colleagues and colleagues have already talked about from my planned exposure, and I will take this opportunity to present a basic and key reason why I and my colleagues at the club will not support Mr. Tegelti for the position he is running for today. The legal world has long been considered and it has been accepted that a more correct translation of the English term – the rules of law are actually the rule of law, not the rule of law, and I am sorry to say that the more correct translation has not yet been brought to life, and I am mentioning it because you also mention Mr. Tegeltija in your first sentence, where you say you are committed to the rule of law, although, as colleagues have said, I have spoken of him several times, you have shown in practice that you are not possessed. You are determined to respect those laws and those, as I would say, the judgments you agree with and which suit you, but those, as I would say, which you do not accept, just seems to accept your party's judgment. I think that's really, let me tell you, and in case we've accepted and accepted, the recommendations of the European Commission that are talking about it, we wouldn't be discussing your candidacy today at all. In every democratically developed country, it's a standard that never goes under. Officials in the highest positions cannot deny the judgments of the courts or have some of their own explanations that satisfy them, and in particular must not make false statements on forms filled in under criminal responsibility, a defacto under oath. But still, if you'll excuse me, I'd, uh, even though I won't support your candidacy, I think you have an obligation to answer some questions. What was particularly burning my ears was when you were talking about the migrant crisis, you used only two words to describe them – social and security, you never mentioned a word of humanitarian crisis in the days when we are busy with photographs, recommendations coming from representatives of the Council of Europe including, after visiting Commissioner for Human Rights Ms. Dunja Mijatović, the other day that in the camps where migrants are presently located, that these are non-human conditions and that Europe will certainly not participate in the financing of such centres. I can't believe that you've even gone there, that you've all been citizens, all migrants between 30 and 35 years old, men, who have marked different skin colors as potential terrorists and members of a terrorist organization by not bringing up any, not one fact that says that in the present number of migrants you've found a percentage of such members or, as I would say, individual examples. I have no words and I really have no intention of going into this one 35 irresponsible statement for a man who is running for such a responsible place, what consequences your statement may have on the lives and safety of migrants. Of course it's both a social and a security situation, but it's primarily a humanitarian crisis. I'm also interested, I don't think you're going to be at it, but this is..., so I only have one question – do you think that the problem with the migrant crisis is the problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? And if you think that's the problem with Bosnia and Herzegovina, what do you plan to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4787	Thank you. Honorable representative Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4788	I thank the chairman. podug list of issues that have long been burdened by political life in Bosnia and Herzegovina is much longer. Hard questions, less difficult and, to be realistic, Mr. Tegeltija or any individual is unable to resolve these issues, nor any individual, wherever they are, can solve these issues. Of course, each of us can contribute to solving this issue with some, some personal energy, personal relationship, a personal attitude, and that is why this exposé of Mr. Tegeltija is interesting as some sort of determination or announcement of this personal relationship or personal attitude toward a number of issues. So many of these issues that are really difficult and which contain very conflicting views of political entities, entities etc., Mr Tegeltija did not even mention. Some of these issues were mentioned by MPs in their debates, of course implying solutions to these issues to their views, and we know that the seat sets a view, some of the issues Mr Tegeltija mentioned, noting that issues of which there is no agreement should not dominate our lives. Of course, you shouldn't dominate those questions with our lives if it's possible, because by that people's famous one, I would let him go, but he wouldn't let me. Many of these issues that we have not addressed are directly burdened and directly reflect both the standard and every possible aspect of life for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I will therefore refer to a few questions that Mr. Tegeltija has mixed up as an announcement of willingness to deal with some of these issues that have really been burdening our political space for a long time. So, Mr Tegeltija was talking about setting up the IPARD operational structure and payment system in the IPARD Operational Structure, we know that the European Commission has given significant resources to create this programme, to establish this system, and then at the last minute there has been opposition to that system and those involved in the design of the project. I believe this is the mention of this willingness to solve the problem because tens of millions of our farmers have lost because we don't have that system and we don't have a solution to the payment system. So, tens of millions of euros are at stake. The next thing we know, after a long time here is the integration programme in this room, we know that it's a long story, it's a document that contains deadlines, perpetrators and holders of reforms in all sectors and areas in a way that is synchronised between all institutions and all levels of government and that ultimately we get a harmonised result. Without that, it is very difficult to talk about the successful implementation of reforms on the European path, and the key assumption is the coordination mechanism. So, I believe that this announcement in the exposé is talking about how we are going to update the national programme, somewhere it's called the state, national, 36 integration programme without which it's really not possible to move successfully and in which all institutions participate at all levels of government that have powers within themselves from the field of the integration programme. I am sorry that Mr Tegeltija spoke exclusively of the migrant crisis from a security point of view because it is a humanitarian aspect and especially given that the Council of Ministers has in its composition the Ministry of Human Rights and, in view of everything that is happening, I believe that it is a failure but however, the Council of Ministers and competent ministries and all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina in both entities must really respect this humanitarian aspect and contribute to that humanitarian aspect being tempered and the humanitarian problems of these poor people are solved. I fully agree that there is a need to control the border, strengthen border control, but there is also room for political dialogue with neighbouring countries because what Bosnia is doing in terms of migrants is highly unacceptable. This is, many moments show that it is very ugly actions towards Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty, on the one hand, by letting through the permissive border of migrants, on the other hand, very suspicious and documented looking at facts about the return of migrants from Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that we see that, in addition to the security aspect, all of this has many other aspects that the Council of Ministers must act on and must act on both inside Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries. I am pleased that Mr. Tegeltija mentioned the need to, and the intention of, agreeing on reforms in a way that does not make it an entity's conversation, entity governments, because that path is not good and it is not good without the Council of Ministers' presence inevitably leading to a deadlock, because Bosnia and Herzegovina is a unique space in every respect and first the framework laws need to be passed, and then entities agree their laws with entities. This will certainly contribute to the intention of the Council of Ministers meeting with the entity governments and leading these reform projects under the patronage of the Council of Ministers to end this practice of entity agreement on individual reforms because I say, however, it is a single prostate of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given that Mr Tegeltija has announced his intention that the issues he has mentioned as controversial or as he intends to resolve, that he will address them in accordance with European standards and European standards and principles, I believe that this will also be the case with regard to IPARD operational structures, and with regard to the gas regulators, in the field of ecology, etc., because these are only some areas in which differences in solutions or non-acceptance of European standards for solving these problems, all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in both entities do indeed suffer damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4789	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Enver Bijedić.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4790	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Without the intention of really quoting my colleague, Nikšić, but I am also pleased that we have come into a situation to address the crisis in the country by forming a Council of Ministers. I think we all agree here in this room, that this people, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, deserve it and that there was reason and will, could have done it much earlier. I have two questions about Mr. Tegeltija's exposés, and first, of course, it's NATO membership. I would like Mr Tegeltija to explain to us his position on what it means and what his opinion is about Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in NATO for a number of reasons. The first reason is, if mentioned, and it is mentioned that large foreign investments are expected to attract foreign investment in this country, which can of course be the only way out through the principle of the Law on Private Public Partnership, 37 we must be aware that foreign investments will certainly not come to a country where the security situation is not resolved, in a country where their capital will not be protected. The capital of foreign investors in this country can only be protected if it has this umbrella that NATO allows and where these people will, of course, be safe. Another reason, to explain to us, of course, our position on NATO entry so that, of course, we can tell the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina clearly and loudly, to inform them what it is, what it is, rather than dealing with prophecies, to see if this is what it is, is it what form, what does that form mean, or say when it will be, of course, under consideration? And the third reason is, to explain NATO membership, the condition of my vote, first of all, I have to say that, uh, my vote depends only on it. The second thing Mr. Tegeltija said and that's very good, which is that agriculture with energy is the most important economic segment in this country. We fully agree here, and I hope that everyone knows that all the investments in agriculture at the moment that Bosnia and Herzegovina still has no candidate status, and when Bosnia and Herzegovina is not even known when it will be acquired, of course, but the moment that it acquires candidate status, all the investments in agriculture at this time are multipled by returning from the European Union funds. That's why this segment is very important and I support Mr. Tegelti. And one part that he mentioned, as far as the prelerman is concerned, are over-dealed, ladies and gentlemen, a special fee introduced by a customs service that is not related to the invoice value of the goods, but rather a safeguarding measure that is related to the import unit. Since you, at all, function and Mr. Tegeltija worked and knows very well what I'm talking about, I suggest that, too, on the discussion of my predecessor, and believe me, we didn't agree, Mr. Nikšić, to introduce the State Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, because in this way many of these problems would be solved. Also, that the prelerman's funds go to a special account, not like they are now, with the funds of excise goods. It is often mentioned in the media that Bosnia and Herzegovina has in recent years charged 8 billion KM and where these funds went. If the allocations of funds collected from the Directorate of Direct Taxation are known, that excise funds, excise goods go to the state budget and that priority matters are resolved, that very few dedicated funds come to the right place. For example, the opposite of where these funds really go for the purposes for which they are intended are to be tolled, often referred to as excise duties by people. Putarins are other types of income and these funds go directly to the construction of infrastructure at all levels. So, it is about the proposal, apart from the introduction of the State Ministry of Agriculture, that funds from prelermanes to be introduced as a safeguard measure of agricultural products that we have here in Bosnia and Herzegovina go to a special account and return to our agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4791	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Nada Mladina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4792	Dear President, Vice-President, present guests and especially colleagues in the State Parlamettna. I warmly welcome and express my satisfaction that we have finally, but certainly not with our own guilt, come to the opportunity to discuss the formation of the BiH Council of Ministers, although everyone blames us most. What made me happy in this exposé, and it helped me a lot when we got the written document even though I listened carefully to Mr. Tegelti, more of a visual type, and then when I look at it, I can still confirm that I heard well, because the fact that 38 of us have one chapter, maybe that was before, than I was in this Parliament, relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Tegeltija, in this exposé, was under the circumstances between certain levels of government talking about relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina that should certainly be improved, because they did not get it, but I think that relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina should, not only institutionally, be improved, but be improved among the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, by their actions, Mr. Tegelti and the future Council of Ministers or Council of Ministers can make it illegal, to finally prohibit the denial of genocide, to prohibit the excelling of the character and actions of convicted war criminals because this would encourage citizens to have more confidence in those they chose and more trust in each other. We have to put an end to that story once, not heat it up, even institutionally. That's one thing, and I'm interested in Mr. Tegeltija's answer, is he ready to help with that, and surely he can, only the question is, is he like that, asking him if he thinks so? My second question is, it may seem formal, but I don't think it's formal, I see in the official documents of this Parliament, which is the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that entities, in front of the name of the entity and of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, are not named entities. It is simply called, here in this exhibition, Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH, and then in some part you say -- Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a whole country as arranged, but it is a state and you are representatives of that state. I wonder if in the negotiations as you listed both the three-month or whatever, uh, meetings, each other within Bosnia and Herzegovina and institutions with other neighbouring countries and those who want to co-operate with us, affirm these things? Will you and I ask you to do this because Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be the last place, and the entities before that, and if we are, and we are, the state parliament, then we should respect it in documents, and certainly in our heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4793	Thank you. Honorable representative of Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4794	Thank you, Chairman. I think I'll look very briefly at all this, but I'd say above all that our political differences here are evident. If we all had the same political stance, we'd probably all be in the same political party. Of course, it does not need to be ambitious that on the basis of one document that has been delivered to anyone, political thinking is imposed, which I believe, on the contrary. What is an encouraging fact is that we are determined to respect the electoral will of the citizens and peoples of this country and that we want to establish the authorities. Unfortunately, after a year and a half. And I would not be inclined to enter a replica and agree with one of my colleagues that these questions should not be opened in this arena. The blockade was not by the SNSD, we know that the stalemate was the Presidency, as we all look forward to today by reaching an agreement in the Presidency and having this tasked movement that is necessary today, whether someone loved it or not, but this movement in the constitution of organs is necessary and it is definitely necessary to carry out the electoral will. We of the SNSD respect the will of the Bošnjak, respect the will of the Hrvat and have never disputed it, so it will be in the coming period. That there will be political differences, will and when this Council of Ministers is established, from the partners who have signed a statement, there will again be political differences, political views that we may never agree on, 39 about which... there is a model to agree on, but what I could notice about you Mr. Tegeltija is that, not because we come from the same political party, you have detected something that is very important for achieving the trust and results of every government in this country, which is internal dialogue, institutional internal dialogue. I can say one of the most significant features of this exposé of yours is just that, respecting constitutional capacities and developing institutional dialogues, and fourthly, I don't know how you're going to, as future chairman, define it in your work programme, but it's very important and very important. I would not speak of the political differences of structures coming from Republika Srpska this time for a reason that I could say much about Denis Zvizdić's exposé, as they said about Zoran Tegeltija's exposé. We did not support your exposé, the SDS supported your exposés where certain policies we definitely disagreed with and it is politically insane to say that, with respect to you, your exposé is much better, but well, we have different political views. What makes me happy is a comprehensive framework for the future movement of those who make up the Council of Ministers. I think that the real situation has been seen, of course, no concrete measures have been taken in view of the fact that it is important from the aspect of the political interests and motives of the partners to look at the state and define the plan of work of the future Council of Ministers. I think there are very strong competencies of those people who have continuity in performing important political functions in... period. Mr Tegeltija is one of these, and I think we will have the Chairmanial Council of Ministers who has a kind of continuity in certain processes, but with a very clear indication of the internal dialogue that is necessary. I think it's a strong progress your idea to organise a meeting of the Council of Ministers and entity governments in a certain period of time. I think that these meetings will result in many solutions, many policies and what is very important is that this transparent work of executives at a common level will eventually come back here to these benches, and then each of the MPs, each of us will have the opportunity to express his political position, his ideas, etc. I think that you, in your review or I would say to the framework plan, have listed very important policies that will be put before the competent institutions and most of us, colleagues, have characterised this as very important topics, commenting on how the agriculture and rural development, energy, etc. I think there is already, I would say, a kind of consensus that these are topics that need to develop policies in the next period, respect entity competences and some other competences and define certain political movements, whether it is about changing some strategies, complements, making some new strategies, new legal projects, sublegal acts, etc. I think it is clear to all of us that it is necessary to complete the process of constitution, that we should look at the end and the proposals of the personality coming from the structures according to a statement signed by the three leaders and, of course, definitely by the power of the arguments, the fact along with this kind of permanently important meetings to define the work plan of the Council of Ministers. And finally, in line with all our powers from the authorities from which we come to get into work and get rid of it because it has definitely been lost for a year and a half, I think this is an example of bad practice and that in the future meetings of the Council of Ministers, or the structure of the parliaments, this should not make this complicated situation so difficult, but rather go to the implementation of the electoral result and the will of the citizens and peoples of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4795	Thank you very much. Dear representative and colleague Radmanović. Here you go. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4796	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, and Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't answer to deny some lies that we have a chance to hear here sometimes, but to remind myself of something we didn't, I guess we were talking about today. Today is a special day, and we should all feel that way. Only once in four years do we choose the chairman of the Council of Ministers. On this day we waited 14 months. Today, the start of the implementation of the election results of a year ago, and this Parliament is due today to open hopes for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in both entities, in 10 cantons, in 140 local communities, and it seems to me that Mr Tegeltija's exhibits are opening that hope regardless of some criticism that would be normal to be heard from those who have declared themselves an opposition. I must say, it seems to me that there have been several excellent participations in the debate that contribute to what I said, that there is an opening of hope for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The path towards the European Union, which Mr Tegeltija has potentiated, is a sufficient framework for all of us to agree on, perhaps the only thing we all agree on, a sufficient framework to move forward. It has the rule of law or, as you say, the rule of law, it has human rights, it has accelerated economic development and steps towards better lives for people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And for that reason, in this brief debate, support for what Mr. Tegeltija said, not only on my behalf, but on behalf of two clubs, SNSD and the Serbian Club of Republika Srpska. I think most of them support what Mr Tegeltija was talking about and that this is a step towards better work and this Parliament, in which we ourselves, in which we have so far chosen MPs and leadership, and so it will be in the future, and not as some say, completely vice versa, and so we will choose the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4797	Thank you to Reverend Radmanović. No more reports, I conclude the debate, and before we put the vote to confirm the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers, we give the honourable Mr Tegeltija an opportunity if he wants to answer certain questions raised during the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4798	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to all MPs who have also presented my exposé to their discussions or proposals, but also to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. With a large number of attitudes, I am grateful for these all expressed views, whether I agree with them or not, but all these discussions are an indicator of the relationship in our society, and I'm sure, and the direction in which we should change things. If I tried to answer all these questions today, my answers would have taken quite a while for my presentation to last longer than all this debate had lasted. At the very beginning of my exposé, I said that my presentation was not a detailed programme of the Council of Ministers, but basic indications about how the Council of Ministers would work. I will request a stenogram of all your discussions from Parliament's professional service, and I will make them known when adopting the programme of work of the Council of Ministers for the future period. They will be clearly defined and policies on how we will address these issues. I'm sure there's going to be a lot of what you're talking about in that work programme, and I haven't had a chance to talk about it in an exposé because it's a much more general document. With some of these things, he would certainly agree, and much will be found in the Council of Ministers' work programme. 41 I would just like to say that this hall, this House and this pay phone will never be used for each other's insults, demeaning and underestimating any of you or any citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina as some have tried hard and tried harder since 19 November, but of course it speaks more about them than it does about me, but for the public I want to say, I did not fill out a statement because I wanted to, I said at the request of the BiH Presidency, Mr Komšić, and here I delivered a statement in his cabinet. After that, the statement went to competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My influence on anything about it is nothing, I couldn't in any way influence it, and every thought that I wanted to deceive anyone, bring in false information, has absolutely nothing to do with it. Once again, I just want to say that in this room, together with the new Council of Ministers, we bear together responsibility for the progress and development of Bosnia and Herzegovina over the next three years. The citizens will be judged in 2022 by what we are and what we do, what remains behind us, and not how we have insulted one another, belittled one another, and so on. And finally, once again, I am willing to do whatever is necessary, and in my jurisdiction, to live in a more successful, richer and fairer society called Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope you are, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4799	Thank you, Mr. Tegeltija. Now we invite you to, the debate is closed and we move on to the vote. We now call on you to vote to confirm the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers chairman. Here you go. Of the total attendance, 27 voted against 7 and 4 abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 17 for, against 5, abstentions 4 and 2 are not present. From Republika Srpska – for 10, against 2, the abstention has no one and are not present 2. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. We're going to the re-election. After the re-vote, a total of 38 participants were present. It's 28, v. 8 and abstention 2. From the Federation of BiH – 18 for, against 6, abstention 2, 2 are not present. From Republika Srpska – for 10, against 2, the abstention is none and 2 are present, which means we have a general and entity majority. I agree that we have made a decision to confirm the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr Tegeltija. On behalf of and on behalf of the College of the House of Representatives, and I believe in the entire House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Mr Tegeltija, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment as the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH. We give you one more chance if you want and consider it necessary to thank the House of Representatives. Thank you. Congratulations again on behalf of the College. 42 [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4803	As I was speaking at the College, I would also like to reiterate this here and stress the satisfaction that those who have respected the demands of the SDP Club, which is the opposition club in a way that they have not misused in our case the majority and that they have respected all requests for membership in committees in an appropriate manner. I appeal that in the process of forming joint committees, in particular the Commission for European Integration, you shall also take into account that in a similar, correct manner, we shall carry out these consultations, and especially when this Commission is concerned, the opposition will be represented in an appropriate manner, as I will remind you that Bosnia and Herzegovina, namely this Parliament, is the only Parliament in the region where the representatives of the opposition are not at the head of the Commission for European Integrations. This rule applies in all other parliaments, so this is when we talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina and the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, because it is the purpose of making this whole process feel common, to feel property over the process, and that there is no question of European integration where they are in favour, the other one against. So, with this observation, I'm saying that we have no reason not to support this.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4804	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Emrić. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4805	I thank the chairman. I am taking the opportunity to express my satisfaction that the appointment of permanent commissions will unblock the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives after a year. Of course, it is not good that we have followed and waited so long for this painful process to be prepared and formed by the Council of Ministers and the appointment of permanent committees, but in Bosnia and Herzegovina, very important issues sometimes require time and understanding, so I hope that citizens will have the understanding of all this they have been through, but I also hope that there will be benefits from what is coming from the future work of the new Council of Ministers and I hope regular meetings of this House. I submitted a proposal for membership in the Finance and Budget Committee for the reason that I was a member of the Commission in the previous term. Since the College and the majority did not respect this proposal, I will be against this decision and I hope it will not be misunderstood, but I have asked to be a member of the Finance and Budget Commission for the continuity of work and through all that we have been through for 4 years, from a large number of educations and methods of monitoring the work of the BiH Audit Office and the monitoring and audit process of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It seems to me that there was no understanding of the Colleges and those who proposed membership in the Commission. I'm sorry for that by expressing my dissatisfaction in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4806	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4807	I thank the chairman. Several members of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, first and foremost of the 7th Point (4), which requires an MP who has been forced to leave the session or, later, to discuss the reasons, today is the opportunity to reveal the panel in Jelena Vitas Park, which was adopted on my initiative, and this is also the only initiative that has been adopted by lower levels of government by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and has come from someone from the state parliament. From today, Jelene Vitas Park has been operational, and it has been my pleasure to attend the discovery of that panel, since it was adopted on my initiative and that Sarajevo is finally returning its anti-fascist past. I hope the next one will be the cancellation of Mustafa Busuladžić's school, etc. As regards the other Members of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to Rule 30(5). Therefore, Article 30(5) of the Rules of Procedure, and this concerns specifically this item of the agenda, says that commissions elect the chairman and the first and second vice-president among their members. Now I quote - they are chosen from three constituent nations. According to the College's proposal, the Commission for Gender Equality of the House of Representatives has no proposed members of the Croatian people, which means that this Commission cannot be established in accordance with your proposal and that the Rules of Procedure are respected. 44 Like my colleague Emrić, I have also requested a seat on the Constitutional Commission. Although I was, without false modesty, extremely successful chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission in the last meeting, the College of the House said I shouldn't be in that commission and that's okay, but the College of the House also rated, here, see that the secretary and Mr. Radmanović consult, I know, I always catch them like this but are you going to ask for a break or should I continue? Do you need a break from your colleague Radmanović? You don't have to. Okay. But since the Constitutional Commission is the only one and it is the most important, I understand your reasons, the only one where SDA, HDZ and SNSD have proposed two members, so you just want to make sure you have six members. You know what else is the problem here? Of those six members of yours, there are only two lawyers, and we have three philosophers including one orientalist, Mr. Softić, and we have one who's finished, I mean defense and protection, but now I'm going back to the Rules of Procedure that says that the Commission's leadership consists of three members who are elected by three constituent nations. Now, I'll take the line, I mean, will you let me finish? _________(?) [[the speaker is warned on time]] [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you. Now we'll see how many votes in the election you think it takes to annul the Rules of Procedure. Is that 40,000 votes, or are you going to put SNSD and HDZ votes together like you lied to them when you were elected to that position? Is that close to 40,000 votes, I'm sure you can't forgive Mr. Resić for not beating you to over 40,000 votes, so you're constantly forced to speak close to 40,000, how many votes are sufficient in the election of the enrolled, whatever, to violate the Rules of Procedure? Anyway, I'm looking for a 30-minute break to fix this mistake you've made. The only solution given the names proposed, I can see that Mr. Lovrinović, although gender equality is not exactly his fault, that he and I have a nice trade in these two commissions, and that's the only way that this mistake of yours can be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4809	In the name of the club, you're looking for a break, aren't you? Mr. Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4810	I'm looking for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4811	Okay. We can only understand this as a request for a break on behalf of the Club and in that case you are giving a break for up to 30 minutes. 45 [[PAUZA]] Dear fellow MPs and MPs, please take your seats, to continue our work. Okay, we can start working. On behalf of the Club, the Honorable Representative Arnaut asked for a break. Here, I'm giving him my word even though before that he's given reasons for a break, but eventually, he might have some other, new information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4813	Right, I asked for a break. I explained in part, so a rough mistake has been made by the College in this proposal. It is necessary to correct this error if you want to respect the Rules of Procedure. I also gave you some suggestions on how to do it and I gave you hours' work, and it took an hour to fix it, so I hope you used that time well. I will use this opportunity to discuss, also to explain the conclusion, the proposal for a conclusion that I have delivered, which I think has already been shared with all MPs. It is fully in line with the agenda point, therefore, the agenda point is the establishment of committees and my proposal for a conclusion simply says – it is up to the Secretary of the House to convene, within seven days of the date of adoption of this conclusion, a constitutive session of the Interim Investigation Commission, which was established at the 2nd Emergency Session of the House and whose members were appointed on the basis and in accordance with the conclusion adopted by the House at that session. So, I remind you, this is about the Interim Investigation Commission of this House for the State of the VSTV. The Commission, the Investigative Commission is already formed in the conclusion of this House, the members are appointed and we have only the situation that the Secretary of the House whose duty it is under the Rules of Procedure refuses to convene a constitutional session and we simply need to order him to do what is achieved by this conclusion. I remind you that the formation of this Commission has been supported by the OSCE Mission and the United States Embassy, I also remind you, of yesterday's tweet by the US Embassy after meeting with us six parliamentarians, which include progress on the Euro-Atlantic path and the role of Parliament, the role of Parliament, in ensuring judicial responsibility, are of crucial importance. It's a tweet from the US Embassy after meeting with six parliamentarians last night. And, finally, what some would say is happiness follows the brave, uh, precisely during this break is a report by Mr. Pribe who is disastrous and tells us further that as soon as possible this commission of inquiry begins to work. And for that reason, I urge all colleagues who have supported the establishment of this investigation committee, and possibly some others, to support this conclusion today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4814	Thank you very much. So we continue with the agenda item called – the appointment of members of the Permanent Committees of the House of Representatives. With regard to the Commission for Gender Equality of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, it is the Commission's proposal to appoint the Honorable Representative Vlatko Glavaš in the Commission, which fully meets the conditions of the Honorable Representative Damir Arnaut and which are prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. So the leadership will be able to be composed of representatives of the constituent peoples. Since there are no more reports... 46 Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4815	I would then ask you to read to us at least the modified composition of these commissions, did Mr. Glavaš come out of some other commission eventually? What is the composition of all these committees? And also, where does Mrs. Čolo go, which is the replacement, so it's obvious that there's been some kind of change in order? And, finally, given that the House has decided, although I have asked to be a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the House College has decided to place me in, I mean, the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs on which I don't know enough, and unlike most of my colleagues in this House, I don't want to say when I don't know something, I don't fly into committees that I'm not qualified to be like four philosophers who are in the Constitutional Commission, etc., I'm not telling you that I don't want to be in the Foreign Trade Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4816	Dear Representative Predrag Kožul, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4817	Well, here's my correction to the wrong quote regarding the conclusion, the suggestion of the conclusion, fellow Arnaut. I have not been able to find glasses to react in time before, but it is very important to say that in Article 29. The Rules of Procedure, paragraph (3) says – The House of Conclusion determines the task and composition of the committees, and this concerns temporary commissions. I remind you that this investigation committee mentioned by Mr. Arnaut, this House has never established the composition of this committee. Therefore, if we were to be correct in this conclusion on the establishment of an investigative committee on the subject, it would be the task of this House to appoint the Committee first to the end of the next session, therefore, of the Committee. Only then can the commission do that. Transferring responsibility to the Secretary of this House is inappropriate in this case.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4818	Okay, thank you. So I explained it, but here we go, one more time. So, Mr., just for a second, Mr. Glavaš, therefore, does not come out of any other commission, he just enters the Committee for Gender Equality of the House of Representatives, and there will no longer be a representative of Alma Čolo who also leaves this Commission, and does not enter any other committee and in that sense the total composition of committees, number and order you get remains unchanged. Dear Representative Arnaut. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4819	Thank you. Regarding what you have just said, can I then conclude that, or may I conclude, that, no longer respect the ratio that the Rules of Procedure also require, that commissions, commission membership is based on the number of clubs. So, uh, this SDA gave up one of its members who belonged to it under that Rule of Procedure, and DF 47 got an additional member, there's no other conclusion. We've clearly got a table and it's clear how much the club belongs to on that table. As for Mr. Kožul's comment, uh, article 29. Rules of Procedure - I would like to remind you that the tasks and membership of that Commission are very precisely defined. Therefore, the House has very precisely set out its conclusion that it will be the members of the Commission that the clubs deliver within seven days, and then an additional three days if entity representation is not respected. Since SNSD did not deliver members of the SDS commission took the burden on themselves and they secured a third from Republika Srpska's entity. Therefore, everything is absolutely completed except for the secretary who refuses to call a constitutional session. You are obliged to vote unless you consider that close to 40,000 votes by Mr. Resić gives you the right to violate the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4820	So it's all clear about the agenda point. I explained the reasons, i.e. the change in composition itself. The agenda point is – appointment of members of permanent committees of the House of Representatives. I'm closing the debate. I call on you to join the vote on the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of members of the Permanent Committees of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the composition that you have received, except for the Commission on Gender Equality, where instead of the distinguished representatives of Alma Čolo, the member and the Commission is the honourable representative Vlatko Glavaš. I'd like to make a statement about that. The results of the vote – of the 38 present – voted 31 against 2 abstentions 5. From the Federation – 19 for, against 2, abstentions 5, there are no 2 MPs present. From Republika Srpska – for 12, against nothing, refrained nothing and no two MPs are present. So we have a general, we have an entity majority. I find that we have reached a decision on the appointment of permanent committees of the House of Representatives. That's what we're esteemed ladies and gentlemen... Dear Representative Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4821	In accordance with a member of the Rules of Procedure who allows the MP to resign as a member of the Commission, I am resigning from the membership of the Trade Commission, to which Dom has just chosen me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4822	Okay, after the constitution, it's possible to do so, so we've exhausted the agenda of the fourth emergency session of the House of Representatives. Before the MPs leave the gym, I would like to give a word to the secretary who will give you a brief clarification on the planned constitutional sessions of all the permanent committees whose members we have appointed today. And I would like to inform you that the next regular session of the House of Representatives, according to a proposal for a calendar adopted by 48 December and January, will be held on December 18, 2019, and you will receive calls on time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4823	Good afternoon, everyone. Just one brief note. Constituting sessions of all trusts, all six commissions will be here in hall 2/2. The Committee for Foreign ustavnopravni, then 15 minutes from the Committee for Foreign Trade and Customs, the Committee for Finance and Budget in 45 minutes, then the Committee for Transport and Communications in an hour and the Committee for Gender Equality for about an hour and 15 minutes. We'll try, we've set some deadlines, but we'll try that. Be there, all of you, in the hallway, that since individual representatives overlap with the committees, and since, behold, Dom has appointed members of the Committee to come together, I would like to wish you successful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-05-0.u4824	Thank you very much, and thank you very much. Session completed at 3:18 p.m.
