ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4949	Dear MPs and MPs, distinguished guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, distinguished media representatives, I welcome you all very much and open the 5th emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives. An anthem of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina will now be intonated. Once again, I warmly welcome all present representatives and representatives, as well as distinguished guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Up until this moment, the absence was justified by the distinguished representative Damir Arnaut for health reasons, and 39 MPs are present at the session, which is my understanding that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Dear Members of the 5th Emergency Session of the House has been convened in accordance with Article 68. Rules of Procedure with one item of the agenda, which was decided by the College of the House at the 13th session, held in 17.12.2019, as indicated in your invitation. In this regard, I conclude that the 5th Emergency Session of the House has the next agenda, item one and the only item of the agenda, and that is the Agenda 1. Confirming the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. I recall that the procedure for confirming the appointment of members of the Council of Ministers is regulated by Article 152. The Rules of Procedure, also Article 4 of the BiH Constitution, prescribes a way to appoint the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers. The newly appointed chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Zoran Tegeltija, delivered a decision on the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers together with signed statements from candidates whose form and content was prescribed by the Central Election Commission of BiH, the official confirmations of the Central Election Commission, and in accordance with Article 10c. The Council of Ministers Act, which confirms that the proposed candidates for ministers and deputy ministers meet all the necessary conditions for the appointment and final report on the truthfulness of the information made up by the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH, in connection with the appointment process. The election committee of the BiH Council of Ministers held a meeting, discussed all available information regarding the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, and gave the House of Representatives a recommendation, which I think you have just received, to confirm the proposed persons for those positions in the BiH Council of Ministers. 2 Now, in accordance with Rule 152(4) of the Rules of Procedure, I will call on the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Zoran Tegelti to read the Decision appointing ministers, deputy ministers and deputy BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4950	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the working..., ladies and gentlemen Members, guests, media representatives, ministers, future ministers in the Council of Ministers allow me to, on the basis of Article 10a concerning Articles 5 and 7. The law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to confirm I propose a Decision appointing ministers, deputy ministers and vice-presidential Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For ministers in the Council of Ministers of BiH, I propose: 1. biser Turković Foreign Minister; 2. Staša Košarac Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations; 3. Vjekoslav Bevanda Minister of Finance and Treasury; 4. Vojin Mitrović Minister of Communications and Transport; 5. Ankica Gudeljević Minister of Civil Affairs; 6. Mr Josip Grubeša Minister of Justice; 7. Minister of Security Fahrudin Radončić; 8. Mr. Sifet Podžić, Minister of Defence. I propose to the Deputy Ministers: 1. Mr Josip Brkić Deputy Foreign Minister; 2. Ljiljana Lovrić Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations; 3. Mr Hazim Rančić Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury; 4. Nedžad Branković Deputy Minister for Communications and Transport; 5. Siniša Ilić Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs; 6. Dževad Mahmutović Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees; 7. Nezir Pivić Deputy Minister of Justice; 8. Mr Mijo Krešić Deputy Defence Minister; 9. Mr Mirko Okolić Deputy Minister of Defence. The following are hereby appointed to the Vice-Presidents of the Council of Ministers: 1. Vjekoslav’s Bevanda, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1 Bisera Turković. Before I finish, I would like to inform you that just about half an hour ago from SIPA, a final report has arrived on the checks carried out regarding the minister, the proposed Human Rights Minister and refugee Mr. Mlađen Božović. On the basis of the document we received from SIPA, all checks were successfully completed for the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees Mr Božović because of his business inability today we did not, I did not propose him. 3 Dear Members of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I suggest you consider and confirm this Decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4951	Thank you, thank you to the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate now. Here you go. Dear Representative Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4952	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the future Council of Ministers, representatives of the outgoing Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, and after more than a year, we have finally welcomed this session of Parliament to elect the Council of Ministers of BiH, which will work for at least three years as is the Constitution of this country and prescribed. For a year, nearly 13 months of specific circumstances, the blockades of Parliament, the inability to agree, sometimes heavy murmuring and political scenes, as well as the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina have led us to make this decision today. I must say that yet there is one, one bitterness among all of us, and the feeling is causing the fact that, perhaps for the first time or at least recently, there have been no cases of being called the brim of the Council of Ministers, that it will not be fully appointed today and that it is certainly something that is inappropriate for serious countries and for serious institutions. But what is happening, I repeat again, is causing some bitterness that the BiH Presidency is not coming to this session for the first time, although it has been a practice for every time members of the Presidency from all three nations to attend a session of the House of Representatives when it confirms the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. This sends a message of disrespect not only to the people who are proposed in the Council of Ministers, but also to the House of Representatives and MPs themselves who make up this House of Representatives. I don't think that's good, and it should be mentioned anyway. What is evident is that today we have had a conversation with all the proposed candidates and have felt some kind of fear of giving an answer, a delay, as if we have a feeling that many candidates are shy, timid and have a fear of responding that can cause certain political repercussions. I don't think that's good, that every candidate, every elected member of the Council of Ministers must have a clear position on the matter not only of working in its own portfolio, but of strategic directions where this country is going in the coming period. It is amazing today that, as never before, the word NATO integration must not be mentioned, the NATO path, the documents going to Brussels, as if it were some kind of taboo topic which is unauthorized, which is controversial, which is discriminatory, I see no reason for such attitudes, and that's something that surprised me. With this fact that the members of the Bureau have not come to this session, I have a promise that the biggest challenge of the proposed candidates will be how to preserve their personal dignity, responsibility in their work and show that they are ready to do their job seriously in the portfolios for which they will be elected today. We heard today and certain announcements that it could also be the formation of new institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Court of Appeal, the Rescue Unit, for some types of civil protection at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but what is very important is that and I want to stress that, finally after more than a year, we will have a Council of Ministers formed and, if nothing else, we will determine responsibility in the work to know who the government is, who the opposition is. And as ever before, this Council of Ministers meeting will not have the right to excuses, because it will have no reason to say that someone else 4 or someone third is guilty, because it is clear that this coalition that forms the Council of Ministers of BiH is leading both the Government of Republika Srpska and the Government of the Federation and most of the cantons and has at least political reasons to make an excuse for something that has not been done looking for someone else. I think it is also a good thing that should facilitate how and in what way you will work in the next period, although the fact is that not only are we MPs coming from certain political parties, but also the public, even the academic community generally does not have any too many expectations. After all that's been going on for all these 12, 13 months, this Council of Ministers won't have as much expectations as some previous one, which could be one kind of advantage, that every little shift, every little solution, which is good, will be positively assessed, because I really don't see that there will be some excessive, excessively high expectations. I expect you to work in accordance with the BiH Constitution, to respect the constitutional powers of all levels of government, to know what is in the power of the Council of Ministers, and what is in the power of the Government of Republika Srpska and the Government of the Federation, that it is impossible for the Council of Ministers to work on reducing the tax burden of work, because it is the constitutional authority of the entity and the Brcko district. That it cannot work and take measures when it comes to agriculture and agricultural policy, because it is the jurisdiction, of course, of the government of Republika Srpska and the government of the Federation and other levels of government. When it comes to the reform of public enterprises, it is known whose jurisdiction it is and you should be focused solely on those issues which are the constitutional jurisdiction of this Council of Ministers. I expect you do not increase the VAT rate, it is very harmful, it is bad for citizens, for every man, regardless of which part of Bosnia and Herzegovina lives. We're going to biti fierce against the increase in every imposition, every burden if you do it in the next period. We'll compare your promises and, of course, the results of your work, don't have any doubt, and I think it's a good idea to have a strong opposition as a correction to your work. We will be serious, fierce and reasoned in criticism, so don't have any doubt, but we will also be responsible for supporting those solutions that are in the interests of the people, the people, every man, and therefore I want to tell you in the end, to be responsible. I wish you first a lot of health during this extremely turbulent period, a tense job, to be responsible enough for respecting the second opinion and a different view and to try that culture of dialogue, unlike the previous period, to raise to one level where we will respect and by the power of the arguments create the best possible solution and on the other hand consider that we will as an opposition party, speak on behalf of the Party democratic progress, and to work and expect from you very concrete results when it comes to strategic directions, but also when it comes to specific attitudes, actions, action in every resolution you conduct. And on the other hand, I think this is an opportunity for you to show what you know, to hide as little as possible behind your leaders and be serious enough, on your own when it comes to making policies that should make progress in this country. I think it's on that side and the message that we're sending you is correct and we're going to know how to measure it in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4953	Thank you. Dear Representative jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4954	I thank the chairman. Here is after this very constructive and correct discussion of opposition member Mr. Borenović and I will continue in a similar tone, in a tone of encouragement to this new assembly of ministers, to face a very difficult and economic and political situation in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 5 years since the establishment of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, it has been lost for a year, very difficult issues have been resolved, and it is good that consensus has been reached, that agreement has been reached and that we have unblocked the work of the House of Representatives. I, in the last session of this distinguished House, stressed that it is unnecessary and now we see that it is unnecessary to block the work of any parliament in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because in the end we have none of it, and the citizens have no confidence in both the system and those who are involved in this political system, according to all MPs, according to all policies, and we have offended all these policies by these obstructions, blockades and failure to show willingness to reach compromises and agree on key issues. I am not saying that this environment is a more favourable, key issue, essential issues in this country are still open, but here we want as an opposition to make a contribution and we want to show our intention to support all positive political flows that will primarily restore confidence in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then make economic progress. What the chairman of the Council of Ministers indicated when explaining his exposé, I expect it to be done by a new Council of Ministers' meeting, which is a focus on economic growth and development, on rapid growth and development in the energy system. There has been a lot of talk about how it is expected that investments in the energy sector can primarily increase employment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also open new investments, i.e. to give a chance to all sectors of the economy, which are related to these investments, to maintain their business first and then to have slight progress. What I would share with my colleagues and colleagues, given that I was a member of the Commission to prepare the Council of Ministers' election, from today's session, is that there is this one optimism, this one desire in the candidates for ministers to work. They showed it, it was very useful and I would say correct dialogue, but of course it remains in the air that political stigma about how much this consensus has actually been achieved and whether what was agreed on is realistic to happen. So the most important question is – is the Reform Programme for Brussels tomorrow? That's what the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina want to hear, and that's what I want to know. After this session, I hope tomorrow's Reform Programme goes to Brussels, that's the deal and we all expect it together. He is right, counterpart Borenović, when he says that he feels this uncertainty to talk about it openly, but after this Reform Programme has been published, I see no reason at all to discuss it at all, to ask some specific questions, whether it is ANP, it is not ANP, so when we read one and another document, means a document that was previously created as the Annual National Programme and this Reform Programme, then we see that these are essentially two identical documents, that this is a compromise that was reached for the benefit of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We should all welcome it together, support it, and give it one hope that the agreements in Bosnia and Herzegovina are possible and that Bosnia and Herzegovina's path as a Euro-Atlantic integration is not questioned. So I, like my colleague Borenović, will, as he pointed out, give support to all these positive reform procedures and directions. Of course, it's hard to expect all of this to happen in this term, I don't have that illusion, I'm not naive, but we can at least do something. This Council of Ministers faces a major global challenge of the migration crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I spoke about it, or discussed it or, under quotes, asked the question – how to address this migrant situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, how to improve this coordination system? Of course, there's no answer yet, it's one complex, trom system. I must say, unfortunately, Bosnia and Herzegovina has been talking for two years about how something needs to be solved, but there is no concrete agreement. We all express empathy towards migrants, but when migrants need to get close to someone's home then we all have reservations, this is not how migration is resolved in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is not how the system envisaged for the control and management of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina is foreseen. Therefore, I call on this Council of Ministers to deal courageously with this global challenge, this is not a problem, and we have found this today at a session of the Commission to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers, this is not a problem of one ministry, this is the problem of the Council of Ministers as an executive body of Bosnia and Herzegovina to understand its role. And this coordination is envisaged, it is not on a voluntary basis, but of course, given the weight of the problem, everyone withdraws when the right decision is to be made and to prevent what is happening in northwestern Bosnia and Herzegovina, general uncertainty and a very risky epidemiological situation. I asked the question, a new wave of refugees is being announced from Syria via Turkey to the European Union, Turkey does not know if it will be able to deal with the problem – and what can we expect? So we're going to be run over with this kind of migration management, so we can't even imagine what that means, so the situation is very serious. I, of course, must stress that because I come from the Un-San canton, it is our biggest problem, but I must also say and resent the earlier Council of Ministers' meeting that they have not devoted themselves enough to solving this problem. If the political will had been the weight of the migrant crisis in the UN-San canton would not have been what it is now, it could have been transferred and divided with the rest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But as I said, migrants don't want anyone near their home, and we're being punished because we have to have such empathy to receive them all, to be humanitarian, to be sensitive, to meet and to ask for help from others, and when we propose concrete conclusions in line with the strategy and action plan, then it doesn't get adopted in this distinguished House and how to be optimistic. How can I be optimistic that this Council of Ministers as a collective body will, above all, have the political will and the responsibility to resolve this issue, not only solve but also follow other global challenges that are hinted at. Therefore, there are a lot of open political issues that expect resolutions in this mandate, and if nothing at least confronts these open political issues, we have European Court of Human Rights rulings, it is in the air, we have to conclude it and therefore this, perhaps, discomfort with the candidate in the Council of Ministers is also felt. They can't honestly talk about all these problems, feel the political discipline, and well counterpart Borenović said, they should take responsibility and address all these issues for the well-being of all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I pity you for all your happiness.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4955	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4956	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all those present and I am not going to continue in any encouraging tone, because at the beginning I am dissatisfied with the composition of the Council of Ministers for two reasons. The first reason is to disrespect the Law on Gender Equality. So we see that even in this House women are not represented in the percentage prescribed by law, but here is the voter's decision, so it can be justified, because, of the 42 MPs, all of us are 9 MPs, and the same thing is repeated when it comes to the Council of Ministers. So I'll remind you of Article 20. The Law on Gender Equality, which states – that state bodies at all levels of the organisation of local government and bodies, including legislative, executive and judicial authorities, political parties, etc. to ensure and promote gender equal representation in the management of the decision-making and representation process, this obligation also exists for all authorised promoters in the selection of representatives and delegations in international bodies and bodies. 7 I must say that even we in the Committee on Gender Equality, therefore, are less gender represented, so women do not have us, so we are in the minority even in this Parliamentary Commission on Gender Equality – and equal gender representation exists when one of the sexes is at least 40% in the bodies of the position (1) of this member. Therefore, gender discrimination is considered to be a situation where there is no equal representation of the position (1) of this member. When it comes to the Council of Ministers' composition, so of the 9 ministers, we have two women, and when it comes to deputies only one, that means 22% and 11%. So I really don't know what to expect when it's at the beginning, so we broke this law, and we didn't even get close to that 40% percentage. Another reason for my dissatisfaction with the Council of Ministers is certain affairs that are related to individual members. It's public knowledge, but here are the authorities that are competent to question, so whether or not it's okay, they say it's up to us to trust them. I no matter what I want them to, I wish them happy work, so to speak. There are complex issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and their work will therefore be the only thing we will further appreciate them for.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4957	Thank you. Honorable representative Zukan Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4958	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The chairman, media representatives, representatives of the international community, representatives of the old Council of Ministers, future ministers in the Council of Ministers, is the future Council of Ministers. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Republic of Croatia on the successful elections without any major problems and I would like to congratulate the second Zoran Milanović and wish him a lot of success in the second round. At the beginning of the discussion, I would like to express a regret that I am saddened by the fact that today we have a reform programme on Republika Srpska's entity, and it is called the BiH Reform Programme. The entity has it on its bench today, and we as state representatives, and if you remember at that extraordinary session that we insisted, asked, we couldn't come to an insight, and here's the RS entity today discussing it at 5 o'clock as far as I know. And right away, let me say what I've learned through the media and some, is, private channels, I have information that it's a document in English, that if the members of the Bureau hadn't even read that they signed it, so the great merits of someone who cheated on someone, which he won, it's not true, any three of them sitting there would have signed it, and it's the merits of the representatives of the international community. The Council of Ministers' call makes sense that we can't tell what people are going to do, it's hypothetical. What can we discuss? So we can talk about theirs, what they've done so far, and about the biography. What I find unnatural is that the president of the strongest party in Bošnjak says about one man for several years, not only in the campaign, that he's the boss of the mob, that the boss of the drug cartel, that he's a co-worker of KOS, that he's, I don't know that I'm still counting, and then he proposes him no less than the Minister of Security. It's a schizophrenic situation for me. The man, processed him, proved he was innocent, was free of jail, I don't know, detention where he was, 2.5 months. But also, Mr. Radončić, I believe, you are an experienced politician, that 8 will launch a process of processing and arresting those who have taken bags of gold into the war, those who are the heads of the Bosniak mafia and many other mob bosses in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that you will prosecute for this term, of course with the tužilaštvo's Office and with the Court. I also thought when they said these were three national teams, I was against it, but when I saw the composition of ministers and deputy ministers coming from the SDA, SBB and the DF, there was no one but Bošnjak, so people are right to say there are three Bosniak teams. About a year of people who are proposed for ministers, it's not good that the foreign minister already has years to retire, 65 years old, it's a dynamic function, it requires a lot of energy. It's not a good thing we have a secretary of defense for the pensioners. I know a lot of people from the DF who have great scientific careers, who could have responded to that task. However, what has been determined for the man who supported in some earlier composition... Chetnik Nikola poplašiti for one function, is this some kind of relationship and better co-operation between those national blocks, we'll see. It will also be interesting at the Ministry of Defence, where the DF minister is and the deputy HDZ minister. So now they can co-operate with legal and illegal, legitimate and illegal, those who are secessionists and those who are patriots. You see how the chair brings all this together nicely, I wonder how it will advance the Ministry in its work. I remind you that somewhere in the middle of the term of office, we will have four pensioners at the Council of Ministers. What kind of message is that to young people? We keep asking them to stay here, so stay here, sit at home and wait 65 years and then you'll show what you know, I don't think that's good. And here's to not being all bad, I'm glad they have two people out there who have a business, uh, extremely successful career, and maybe that's good, and maybe they'll show some success and results there. In order not to be the only one from the Federation that's coming, I'm going to have to repatriate the Republic of Serbia a little bit. You have one minister, a candidate for human rights, and he's being accused or convicted, I don't know, of mobbing, so it could have been at least another ministry. You have a proposal for a minister who finishes college in his 40s. In SNSD, I also know a lot of educated, smart people, it could have been a lot better. You have this proposal for Deputy Minister of the Socialist Party, come on, I heard the problem of college, but now the problem and high school. The second candidate was Milenko Savanović, my fellow fighter minister, a doctor of machine science. But he probably wouldn't listen to a boss like this, and it's about these guys, today who's better with the boss, who listens more to the boss, the profession is completely ignored, diplomas when you see where they were getting them a tight Balkans for diplomas. No matter what, this Council of Ministers will have the support of my and SDP in all that is good for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, whatever's not right will be exposed to criticism, we'll be a strong, strong opposition, we won't give you an eye, we'll open your eye. You've made this combination of three national teams, and I expect a lot of auto goals for Bosnia and Herzegovina, because as long as there's not one national team, it's not good for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4959	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermin Nikšić.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4960	I thank Mr. Chairman, I also welcome all present. 9 Interestingly, here so far, and as far as I can see among the reported, one debater will be of the current parliamentary majority and mostly speak to people who have opted to be the opposition, and perhaps that is the case. I also, therefore, want to express my satisfaction and truly fully support that today we finally appoint the Council of Ministers, that the parliamentary majority assume responsibility, that people take over their functions and hope that this will not end, that indeed those exposures, which we have had the opportunity to hear from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, will come to an end. And here at the very beginning, I would like once again to underline what my colleague Helez said at the end, so without any doubt, regardless of what we are opposition to all those projects, all the legal solutions that are on the trail of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens to the European Union and NATO will have our unreserved support, regardless of what we are opposition. So, for a year we've been pulling our minds out to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it wants to be ANP, it won't be ANP, it's not the Reform Programme, it's the ANP, it's not ANP, and unfortunately here in this high house we don't have the privilege of today's representatives at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska to see that document to be submitted tomorrow, tomorrow in Brussels. Certainly thanks to the media, thanks to fellow MPs in the National Assembly we came to a document, we saw and it seems to me that a few things should be underlined here, and that is that it is really a short document, if we know that ANP was on some 165 pages, that this one now on a 20-page page, in itself says that it is quite narrowed down. Content of some issues have been kicked out of the Reform Programme, so we don't have electoral legislation, so we don't have police reform, but in principle all the other contents that are in the ANP seem to be both in the Reform Programme and in that part, from that aspect, this, although reduced, seems to me to be able to pass in this part, to say that Bosnia and Herzegovina will continue this kind of path. The fact is, however, that the programme very clearly underlines how the Programme is submitted without prejudge of the final decision on membership, and whose adoption will require additional decisions and the BiH Presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which I consider even normal. I don't know why the document mentions the joint institutions, instead of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if it's not really a compromise. And here, if I can also understand that this is part of a compromise within the Presidency, and even at the expense of the BiH Constitution, let it be noted that I find it inadmissible, but here again in order to bring things closer, finally to starting things off the dead end, to say that in some ways I can and understand. And then when I thought that there was a Reform Programme on its content, the ANP, and that it was enough that, even though they pointed out in NATO that it wasn't an ANP, but there they were satisfied they could pass, today I remained frustrated when I read the candidate's statement, future foreign ministers. I will pokušati to quote, the foreign minister said that – there is no MAP, although announced, and that the Reform Programme is going to Brussels to join Bosnia and Herzegovina and that a referendum will be needed, and the foreign ministry will follow the policy agreed in the BiH presidency. So the foreign minister has gone beyond this programme or perhaps knows something more that some others do not know, so she announces not the Presidency's decision and not the Parliamentary Assembly's decision, but a referendum in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is probably also something that can be agreed past the public's eyes and even turns out that the foreign minister is a little better informed than the defence minister's candidate, who said he had not seen the document. So, is that possible, here, let's realize that it's possible, but it's not exactly some message that the Secretary of Defense is preparing for his job if he didn't use the bar to see the document from the media, if not in another way. When we appoint a missing minister, I'll have some additional questions, but here's to begin with, I can say that it's understandable if we've appointed the chairman of the Council of 10 ministers who's been silenced that he's been convicted, then it's logical that we can also appoint the Minister of Human Rights, who's been unjustly convicted of mobbing. So I think that this relationship, at the very beginning, actually shows the relationship of the ruling majority to the rule of law and the rule of law, which should and should be highlighted as the first principle to be advocated. I want to withdraw once again that we will appreciate the results of the Council of Ministers based on what they are doing and what is achieved according to Mr Tegeltija's exposé. Once again, I would like to confirm the support of all the laws and decisions that are in the interests of the citizens, but also to confirm that we will be directly in calling and pointing out everything we consider to be contrary to the interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, contrary to the legal system, the laws and the Constitution of BiH, and I have pointed out at the very beginning that it is not quite right, that we have already broken some legal provisions. Logically, as representatives of the opposition, we will not support this, the appointment of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4961	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4962	I thank the chairman and welcome you, your deputies, colleagues, colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers of the current, future. Here's a few words, first of all, that I think that if the rule of law works and that's at least part of what's being said in the media about future members of the Council of Ministers, we're going to have more sessions like this where we're going to choose new ones, because some of them are going to be arrested for sure, not in the mounted processes, as it has been until now, but for real crime. So once again I say, if part of what's written about these people is true, then and if this is a legal state we're going to have to supplement this Council of Ministers. But on this – then, even from Parliament, there may be some who will have to be temporarily absent, also if the rule of law works, and everyone is full of it. But we all say that we will appreciate the work of the Council of Ministers by the results they will achieve in, my impression based on today's interviews is that other than a few honorable exceptions that know which ministry is taking over and already have a vision of what they're going to do, I'm not sure the others know where they're going and what's waiting for them. I have a habit of saying that some here are in charge of a car, a cabinet, and I'm calling myself a minister, and I'm afraid even in this Council of Ministers meeting, it's going to be to ask a question at the end of the term without people knowing what you're asking him, and his portfolio is. So, I will personally appreciate the foreign minister by how our DKP will make such a network and employees in it not to be the object of mocking the media in the region, because we send people who don't speak foreign language, but then not only do they not speak but they convince themselves that they do know it, and then they start to publicly come forward and embarrass themselves and the state, and we talked about it at the Commission's meeting today for the election of the Council of Ministers. So we'll appreciate the minister's work on what the DKP network will be like. What's weird is what she is, maybe she's even more honest than everyone else who went public and said it was going to be a referendum on NATO, that's what others should have said, whoever we asked everyone said I don't know, the woman only said she knew and said what it was about. So, still, there's a little more nerve than some men we've asked, so they pretend they don't know, and they probably know the same thing. 11 Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministers will be appreciated for whether or not the regulatory, transmission and market for electricity and natural gas will be passed. Whether to engage or not to engage in the prevention of nuclear waste disposal at the location of the Shop Mountain. The finance minister will be appreciated or not appreciated for coming out or not to meet the request and signatures of more than 30,000 businessmen who demand that VAT be paid for the invoice, not after it is issued as it is now. So, to adopt that standard that both countries of the region and the European Union have. Whether the VAT payment deadline will be moved from the 10th to the end of the month, which I think could be quickly realised if there is a will. The Minister of Communications and Transport will appreciate more or less than whether it will fit those who spend 300,000 marks to celebrate taking control of bh. By the sky which, by the way, has not been taken over because we've determined whether, if the plane flies over, Emrić, the Unco-San Canton, that we still don't control it. And will he do what his predecessors obviously did, that the highway of Foca – šćepan field, for example, 30 kilometers does, and you can do it, and here is the minister today and promised that it would be one of his priorities. So whoever went that way knows it's a big shame for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for governments at all levels, and it can be done, but for some reason it's not working, so let's do it to applaud. The Minister of Civil Affairs, among other things, will be appreciated or more by how it will be advocated to speed up activities to legalise cannabis for medical purposes, which is one of the issues, as well as opposition to nuclear waste disposal between, at the border with Croatia around which there is a consensus. I was convinced that the RS Ministry of Health was against the legalisation of cannabis, not true, not true. I've spoken to the minister, in this country there's no political sense the opponents are all for, just things don't move. We'll see what the minister does to speed it up. I can't say to ministar Grubeš that I will appreciate or not appreciate it, because I already have an opinion on him based on his work so far, but I would like to see that the VSTV Act, which he promised by the end of this year, is another one of his unfulfilled promises, to at least release him into the procedure in January. To speed up the registration of NGOs so that they do not become due to what is being organised in the Ministry of Justice, which takes an inaccessible length of time in the Ministry of Justice, the topic in the various reports of international organisations, because this seems to be the only country where civil society cannot be organised and there is no need for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be marked as someone who prevents it, and you can do so, it is a technical process. The Minister of Security will be valued more or less depending on his relationship with the migrant crisis, which obviously won't stop. It's a relationship none of us have ever been satisfied with. It's a relationship, a relationship on the side of influence, a radical group. We will see if again, as in the past few years, we will have the case that a sentence has been adopted unanimously in a document adopted by the Council of Ministers – that the drug market in Bosnia and Herzegovina is stable. So if these things don't happen, it's a step. Whether we're going to have more people than those who are dealing with cybersecurity and whether we're going to feel safer in the next period. This is the area where a big step should be made. The Secretary of Defense, we will appreciate more or less than whether or not the members of the Armed Forces will finally be secured on the basis of a collective contract, that no terrorist act, which happened in 2015 when two soldiers were killed, that we 12 learn that the Armed Forces soldiers do not have collective insurance as well as police agencies. We will appreciate the defence minister and whether they will finally allow the public to see the public procurement they need to become transparent so that we know which firm, owned by which contract he has concluded with the Armed Forces, who manufactures food, who supplies it and everything else. So there's no reason not to be. Finally, the human rights minister, whoever he is, will appreciate more or less whether a fully neglected social group of children born due to the war will finally receive a satisfaction after 20 years in being recognised by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They're children whose mothers were raped and they were born afterwards. I'm not talking about what armies and ethnic groups of mothers are about. Unlike politicians, they're all fighting together for their dignity. And I'm going to finish, when I got this document there were a lot of these discussions about the carriage being which minister, and even some experts were mentioned that the parties might nominate, so there were various combinations, and then it occurred to me, uh, Ćiro BlaževiBlažević when they asked him -- what does he think we're going to place ourselves on a big championship? He said, "If they choose the right one, we will go, but they will rot a hundred percent." And that's right here, the answer to the question of whether we're going to the EU, NATO, would have gone straight, but with a few exceptions, it's a big deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4963	Thank you. The esteemed representative Halid Genjac, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4964	I thank the chairman. I welcome all those present and, of course, I have the need to react in a certain way because of the impression that there is a wrong indication of certain moments from the interviews we had today before the Commission. In fact, the question of the referendum has been mentioned in the two discussions already in terms of the mystification of this allegation in terms of the fact that it is some kind of special courage, some special honesty, so it seems to me that there is some understanding that is different, and that is why I need to react, to some extent to try to correct it. So, we were on the Commission, we heard. Another thing, knowing Mrs. Turković, her experience and her personal views, I think her claim of a referendum can only be understood and understood in one way, so almost all NATO nations, members, almost without exception, became members after the referendum. What referendum? A referendum of all citizens of that state at national national level. And knowing, therefore, the views of Mrs. Turković and her experience, I can only understand her, her allegations about the referendum. So there's no reason, I don't see that there's any honesty, there's no background, there's no need for any mystification, so it's probably going to be decided in any future by a referendum, as well as in all countries, at the national level, by a referendum of all citizens. Whether, in the meantime, the situation in society, relations will politically mature to the extent that we can make some decisions that will solve the issue, allow us to resolve the issue of NATO membership without a referendum, that is to say, to see. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4965	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4966	I welcome you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I am intrigued by one thing that Mr Halid Genjac said, when it comes to this referendum and the story of this referendum, and I will look back on it very quickly, which will be very soon, one conclusion – most likely to be a referendum. What's that all about? What does that mean? How will a referendum be most likely to take place if we do not know by the Constitution or by any other law which, when a referendum is required, at what level is held a referendum, how is it organised and who implements it? Therefore, giving such qualifications for such a serious thing, for me, is very irresponsible. As far as I know, there's probably not going to be a referendum, and I'm sure there won't be a referendum, because there's also these three who are bright and dressable. They didn't mention it anywhere, they didn't mention it, and everything from theirs depends on theirs, and then God's will. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4967	Dear Representative Nermin Nikšić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4968	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I can't say that it's the wrong quote, because I wasn't a member, I wasn't on the Commission, but I have to answer that. So, I read on the portals and in the media this statement, I'm glad Mr. Genjac has such good relations with the minister that he knows what she meant, but'so he didn't dispute,' he said that the correction was wrong, he did not dispute that the lady said it was a referendum. I don't have such close relations, I have to stick to what I've seen in the media and I've asked a very precise question – is it something that's agreed between the eyes of the public or is that the minister's thinking? It'll show time what's really about this and about the Programme and about the ANP, so we'll have a chance to talk here, but there's no need to correct the wrong allegations, which aren't the wrong ones, because the lady said there was going to be a referendum.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4969	Thank you. Honorable representative and club chief Adil Osmanović, the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4970	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-President, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers current, as I would like to point out on behalf of the SDA MPs' Club that this is a solemn moment today, Bosnia and Herzegovina is receiving a new Council of Ministers' meeting. The ministers are coming with a new 14 energy, new visions, ideas, which is good for every job, and especially for the management of ministries. Today you will also take a solemn statement and an oath and swear that you will primarily respect the Constitution of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the laws of this country. I want to say on behalf of the SDA Parliament Club as long as you behave like this, you will have the full support of the SDA Parliament Club. No matter what position we are and what we support today, support the Council of Ministers' election, be sure of that moment if and when we notice that one of you is violating the Constitution, the laws of this country, we will demand responsibility, resignation or a shift. Some have already said in their discussions that it has been over a year, and that we have not received a new Council of Ministers' meeting, which is correct. The Party of Democratic Action advocated and was ready to receive the new council of ministers as soon as possible, but we were as principled as we were today and asked, above all, the BiH Presidency to respect the Constitution and the laws of this country, in this case first and foremost, the Defence Act. You are witnessing that the moment the Reform Programme was adopted by the BiH Presidency that there was a appointment of the Council of Ministers chairman, his confirmation here at the House of Representatives and here today is the appointment of the Council of Ministers of BiH. This was the obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Defence Act to submit a document to Brussels in 2019. What we can say, which is that it's a pretty good document, which is well-deserved, which is home-wise, with the support of Ambassador KVINTE. I just want to point out one thing to my colleagues when it comes to the legalization of cannabis. There are political problems, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has been trying to resolve this issue, but what I want to say is that the Law on the Prevention and control of drug abuse in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Security, or the Ministry of Security. It should be initiated by the ministry before receiving an opinion from the entity ministries and the Brcko Health Department. Finally, on behalf of the SDA Parliament Club, I would like to congratulate the chairman, the new ministers, and I would like to wish successful work, and it is up to us as MPs in this high house that we will always be a strong support for you during your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4971	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4972	Dear fellow Osmanović, I do not dispute your good will, but the problem is not solved by trying, so when you come to the first obstacle, the problem is solved by talking to people, if you have to and pray to them, because there is much that can be solved in this country. Not every problem has to be a political problem. The issue of using cannabis for medical purposes is not the problem of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, or ostali, but anyone who gets sick. The disease doesn't choose parties, political, apolitical, doesn't choose who's from any entity, not in any other way separates people. All that's been a problem these years and what's stressed as a problem is the result of the lack of communication, because with everyone I've talked to I haven't found anyone who said this can't or won't give consent. There are differences in seeing how to change the law, but no one says that the World Health Organization, or its recommendation that we should legalise cannabis for medical purposes, is not good, that the 15 European Parliament's stance from January this year is not good or that there is no man who said he won't, there are only people who said we don't talk. You need to talk, and civil affairs are the address because you have a co-ordinated role among other things. in a segment of health where talking can do much to solve this problem. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4973	Thank you. Dragan Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4974	I just wanted to respond to this gentleman's remarks, here's still the current minister, Adil Osmanović, when it comes to the use of this cannabis for medical purposes. I had no intention, perhaps I should have waited and as part of my discussion, the Ministry of Civil Affairs established and formed an Interresor Working Group that deals with this issue and deals with this problem and, of course, in the composition of these Interresor Working Groups there are and there should be professional people who will answer these questions, primarily medical and pharmaceutical professions. And it's unnecessary here, completely unnecessary, and it's not absolutely in line with this topic of today's calling and calling someone here. Finish this job within the Interresor Working Group, deliver it to the Ministry of Security, and I believe that the next minister will take into consideration everything he gets and no one will, I suppose personally, do anything to use cannabis for medical purposes.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4975	Thank you. Dear Representative Osmanović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4976	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Magazinović, you know very well that you and I have just had very good communication when it comes to trying to find a solution that cannabis legalizes in terms of use for medical purposes. You know very well that the Ministry of Civil Affairs is doing this in the middle of 2018, throughout 2019, we have sent letters to the health departments in the Federation, the entity of Republika Srpska and Brcko District, the Medicines Agency and we have received out of all positive opinions except for the resolution ministry in Banja Luka, communication and how it existed. I didn't mean to call my colleague Mektić, it's true that we have formed an Interresor Working Group, but it takes too long, this has been resolved... by the Council of Ministers' decision, but since Magazinović called or invited the future minister of civil affairs, I was obliged to say that the issue of the Law on the Prevention, the prevention of drug abuse is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Security, it is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4977	Thank you. Dear Representative Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4978	I'm sorry that my colleague Osmanović got involved in this story at all, he could've kept his mouth shut and we wouldn't have opened this up like this. You say you're not in charge first, and then you explain what you've done on your own terms on this matter. So yet it is competent and yet my expectation of the person who will inherit you is not without justification – is that right, do we agree on that? I really appreciate it, and I have even mentioned it several times in the media, your personal eating that is more than positive in this direction, and it is not questionable, but the sick people are not interested in Osmanović, or Mektić, or Magazinović, they are interested in solving this issue and my desire is to resolve this issue no matter which of us and how much contribution it will make to it. So, once again, I'm sorry that you interpreted this as any kind of attack on you, this is just a wish that a very big question, to me extremely important, is finally resolved in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4979	Dear Representative Osmanović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4980	Well, of course, since it's a very sensitive issue and I just want to point out here, colleague Magazinović, what we did as the Civil Service. They have two ways, two ways there are, you know that very well. One way is to make a decision by the Council of Ministers, but before that, it must make a decision by the Commission to combat the use of drugs chaired by the minister of civil affairs. The minister of health from Republika Srpska's entity was against it, he insists on going to a change of law, so... and the change of law is a far longer process and procedure, this is what my colleague Mektić was talking about. So as the Ministry of Civil Affairs, we did everything on our part, held dozens, dozens of meetings, convinced that it was going in that direction in a shortened procedure, and the law could take, say, a year, a year and a half to change it. Therefore, there are two ways to amend the law which is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Security or the decision which is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but there must be a consensus in the Commission on the fight against drugs, and that was not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4981	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Mektić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4982	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome you once again, dear colleagues and colleagues, I was a little late at the beginning of this session, I haven't listened to all these discussions, I've been in the BiH Prosecutor's Office for four hours for questioning, so usually it is, uh, when politics takes its own thing and when politics begins to dominate 17 judicial and judicial institutions, and apparently it has become an unwritten rule for us now to work, but it would not burden you with it, about it – then it is my problem, I will discuss it many times more on this subject and say many, very important, important and interesting things. It doesn't seem to me that this future reassurance is something optimistic, it's somehow, it doesn't show up in them, it doesn't recognize itself, it doesn't seem like any joy or curiosity, or anything special to me with this session today and with this choice of ours today, but here they may already be concerned about some things. Some have talked a lot about it since they were candidates, what they're going to do and where they're going, where they're going to push everything, and they haven't actually gone into the ministry yet, so they can look at the situation, see the particular problems you're going to encounter there, but here I'm letting you talk to me, okay? I let everyone have the right to cheer the people up, everyone has the right to entertainment, etc. And that's what this people need. But I do not agree with you, Mr. Osmanović, there is a great responsibility on them and they will take an oath today and they must not break the oath. Whoever doesn't break the oath, who is sworn in this state, so what kind of demagogy are we spreading to here, to whom we cast our eyes, and to whom do we abuse, whatever political responsibility is on them? So is this the first Parliament now to have Bosnia and Herzegovina, so let's talk about political responsibility? So where is the political responsibility of all, let me say, this government entity since the establishment of these institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina so far? Who are we petting here? Well politicians are the biggest problem of this country, politicians have brought this people into a situation like this and this situation where there is now a poor, poor and poor and robbed people. What, I say, another political responsibility when by politics the people have been deceived, deceived and brought into this situation. We've been saying it's been a year, we don't have power. So is that the political responsibility we're talking about here and the one we're talking about here? So why couldn't this have been a year ago? So why are you talking about an ANP that's done and done, and you will see today in the National Assembly that nothing is Republika Srpska, that nothing is over, that nothing is done and that it will even say that this is the biggest measure and the strongest measure that has stopped Bosnia and Herzegovina's NATO path so far. So who's lying? Now, let's get everybody here, discuss it, so you'll see if ANP is the way to NATO or not. So why are we even talking about it right now and talking about it, why are we in this situation? That this ANP has everyone alive here, the school kids carry it in their backpack, and we don't have it here to see if it's a document that means anything or doesn't mean anything. Well, we lost a year, Mr. Osmanović, because your political coalition said we wanted ANP, and this other SNSDs were saying they wouldn't do ANP, and then someone retarded and you're saying it wasn't you. And I believe that SNSD retarded, I believe, I am convinced, and that will ultimately be confirmed, that this document, call it whatever you want, classic ANP, and even more than that. What we're talking about here is 120 pages of ANP, so you know what's been done out of it, 120 pages are just the headlines that were taken out, without a detailed explanation. No area in this document has been skipped. But if anyone was to have this document, then this Parliament should have had it, and especially that even before this session, we should have talked to this document here, to see who it is and what it is. Unfortunately, now that the consequences of Republika Srpska are going to suffer, she has dragged herself into this whole story, there is no referendum, what a referendum. To what is a referendum for such matters prescribed, who will decide on a referendum on such an entire matter at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Let go of this demagogue; let go of this entanglement of the people, and we have become more detestable to the people. These politicians and the only political responsibility of these politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina for making a very good commitment to crime and corruption, and very much taking this public money and taking it from citizens. So from what are the citizens more poor every day, why do the citizens of this country flee? There won't be any of these wonderful promises here, and these whole stories where 18 of us have been jumping nice, tie up, tight, tight, sweet and combed this morning. Let it go, so the people are fed up with this story more and this kind of demagogy that we're running out of here today. What missing ministers are mentioned here or not present here, could not be present or what category of missing ministers? As far as I know, a minister has a problem because of a coalition, they want this one, they want the one, the wolf, the wolf, they tighten, they stretch, and now they don't know what's going to happen. As far as I know about the second one, his high school and the people's school are concerned, they say – if I knew how easy he was, uh, the college he was, he'd have finished high school. That's what it looks like to me when it comes to this minister. And so I say, give as little stories as possible, philosophy, demagogy, we... there's nothing of this story. We sink further, we fall further, until the people of this country take matters into their own hands. When the people take it into their own hands then there will be a rule of law, then there will be closures, then thieves will answer and then property will be taken from thieves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-12-23-0.u4983	Thank you. Dear MPs and MPs, no more registered for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare for the vote to confirm the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers as follows: 1. biser Turković for the Minister of Foreign Affairs; 2. Staša Košarac for Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations; 3. Vjekoslav Bevanda Minister of Finance and Treasury; 4. Vojin Mitrović Minister of Communications and Transport; 5. Ankica Gudeljević Minister of Civil Affairs; 6. Mr Josip Grubeša Minister of Justice; 7. "Fahrudin Radončić, Minister of Security; 8 / 8 Mr. Sifet Podžić, Minister of Defence. As well as confirming the appointment of the Deputy Minister for the BiH Council of Ministers, the following order: 1. Mr Josip Brkić Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs; 2. Ljiljana Lovrić Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations; 3. Mr Hazim Rančić Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury; 4. Nedžad Branković Deputy Minister for Communications and Transport; 5. Siniša Ilić Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs; 6. Dževad Mahmutović Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees; 7. Nezir Pivić Deputy Minister of Justice; 8. Mr Mijo Krešić Deputy Defence Minister; 9. Mr Mirko Okolić Deputy Minister of Defence. Those for confirmation, the appointment of Bisera Turković, Vjekoslav Bevanda as the deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija. 19 Please plead. Thank you very much. So from the 38 – for 29, against 8.1 abstention. We have the general, we have the entity majority, which is to say that we have confirmed the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I now call on the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, ministers, deputy ministers and deputy prime minister's council to make a solemn statement. Are we ready? Please all rise. Please, members of the Council of Ministers repeat their oaths to me. /Making a solemn statement. Obliging myself to the BiH Council of Ministers
