ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers and the International Community, the Central Election Commission of BiH, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you all and open the 2nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 14 delegates, 5 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Ms. Marina Pendeš is justifiably, for justified reasons, absent, due to official travel. So I'm realizing that we have the necessary quorum and that we can access the adoption of the agenda. For the second session, I propose the next Agenda 1. Giving delegate Denis Bećirović's solemn statement; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 3. Proposal for a decision to appoint the secretary of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Delegate Zlatko Miletić, in accordance with Article 61(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, submitted a proposal to supplement the agenda of the House of People's sitting in a way that puts the point under the name – Public condemnation held on 10 March 2019 in Visegrad in the organisation of the Visegrad Chetnik Movement. Before declaring the proposed completion of the agenda, it is necessary for delegate Denis Bećirović to make a solemn statement and assume the mandate of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with the aim of his legitimate and full participation in the work of the House of Peoples' session. Mr Denis Bećirović did not attend the Constituting Session of the House of People held on 28 February this year, and as Article 1.3a of the position (3) of the BiH Election Law stipulates that the elected holder of the mandate elected in the direct and indirect elections is required to sign a statement that accepts or refuses the mandate in a form prescribed by the Central Election Commission within seven days of the receipt of the statement, I call on Central Election Commission representative Branko Petrić to give Denis Bećirović the assurance of the mandate. I would like to remind Mr Bećirović of the provision of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples - delegates assume the duty of joint giving and individual signing a solemn declaration. 2 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. So I'd like to ask Mr. Petrić to give assurance, then we'll join in giving a solemn statement. Mr. Bećirović, please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u37	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u38	After giving a solemn statement, or after, is what you give a solemn statement, I will ask you to sign it and return it to the service, and the others will please stand up with me and Mr Bećirović will join me in giving a solemn statement. /Making a solemn statement. I pledge to knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u40	I pledge to knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u41	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u42	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u43	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u44	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u45	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u46	3 to protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms,
ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u47	and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u48	and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2019-03-13-0.u49	Thank you. [[APLAuz]] Mr Bećirović, you have received the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the Guide for Delegates and MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The materials that are in the parliamentary procedure will be obtained later. It is my duty to ask you to fill out the forms, which are divided into benches, which are: - charts of basic data, - a statement of familiarity with regulations in the field of the processing of classified information, - a statement of willingness to act in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Conduct of Members and Delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and - a statement on which language and letter you wish to receive materials. Please fill out the forms and hand them over to the employees of the protocol or to the secretary at your club. I would also like to point out to delegate Denis Bećirović that it is necessary to take photographs in the area of the hall designed for photography in order to produce delegate ID and other documents related to the performance of delegate duties. Congratulations and I wish you successful work in this term, Mr Bećirović. We are now moving on to a statement on the proposed completion of delegate Zlatko Miletić's agenda, which you have received. So we are voting on a proposal to supplement the agenda of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Who, for the addition of the agenda, is as proposed by delegate Zlatko Miletić? The vote is open, please. They're trebati have to do it again. Looks like they let it go early, here. Repeat the vote. So, I find that – for any 6, there were 2, 4, 6, 8, that one was missing and that one was restrained, is, and that there was no general majority, so that no draft agenda was passed in line with the proposal of counterpart Miletić. So I realize that the proposal for supplementing the agenda has not been adopted. We move to point two, she refers to ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina 4
