ParlaMint-DK_20200107130006	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Sophi Løhde (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Jens Roh (RV), Mai Mercado (KF) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA): Request no. F 29 (Will the Prime Minister explain his view that government ministers increasingly strengthen political service by employing persons closely associated with the Minister or Social Democracy as party political neutral officials in senior positions, and does the Prime Minister agree that it challenges confidence in party politically neutral officials when seven out of nine heads of press and/or communication, who were appointed to the ministries after the June parliamentary elections, have a special connection with the Social Democracy or Ministers, and will the Minister indicate why the Prime Minister has refused to come to a hearing in the Parliamentary Committee on the Rules of Procedure on inter alia: the appointments made by the Prime Minister's ministers and to whom the Prime Minister therefore has a duty of supervision?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received the following letter: "To the President of the Danish Parliament Following my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 17 December 2019 welcomes the termination of the temporary transfer by Royal Resolution of 3 October 2019 of the Ministry of Culture's business to the Minister for Development Cooperation, Rasmus Prehn and the business of the Ministry of Churches to the Minister for Transport, Benny Engelbrecht, with effect from 1 January 2020. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen The announcement will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received the following letter: "To the President of the Danish Parliament At my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 18 December 2019 states that the responsibility for fish farming in salt water in Danish fishing territory (sea farming), cf. Chapter 13 of the Law on fisheries and fish farming (Fisheries Act), cf. Legislative Decree No. 261 of 21 March 2019 as amended, with the exception of cases relating to the rearing of echinoderms and crustaceans, shall be transferred from the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities to the Minister for the Environment. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen The announcement will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200107130143	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107130207	Thank you. This is, in fact, a rather special proposal which we are discussing here today, because the motion for a resolution asks the government to introduce border controls on entry from Sweden to Denmark. In this way, I agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is why the government has already introduced border controls against Sweden. This has happened in connection with the bomb blast that was at the Danish Tax Office in August last year, when it is the police's assessment that the suspected perpetrators traveled across the border from Sweden to Denmark. At the end of June we witnessed two Swedish gang members being shot on the open street in Herlev, and five people living in Sweden have subsequently been held in custody in the case. At the same time, we can see what is probably worrying for all of us: the developments that have taken place in Sweden in recent years, when there have been a large number of explosions and other serious crimes that can be linked to organised criminals. That development must not, of course, spread to Denmark, and therefore the government has decided to strengthen the protection of the border with Sweden by among others. the introduction of temporary border controls. It is crucial for the government that we engage in a smart and effective way where the focus is on organised criminals and not on the many ordinary citizens who cross the border every day. That is why border controls cannot be left alone, which they do not. Because when it comes to combating this type of crime, it is very much about who the police control, and not necessarily about how many are controlled. Border controls must therefore also be seen in the context of the other measures taken by the government to protect the border with Sweden. In addition to border controls, the government has also decided to set up a new police centre to ensure close cooperation with Swedish police. The Centre shall be a coordinating and coordinating focus of action against cross-border crime in the region. I am pleased that the Danish-Swedish cooperation is something that we have already agreed with the Swedish Government to give priority to. I must also understand the resolution we are debating today, so that the proposers want something different and more permanent and physical than the border controls imposed by the government. It may sound quite inconvenient, but the fact is that such a control of, for example. 24-hour border crossings will have major consequences both economically and in terms of traffic. In the case of round-the-clock staffing of border posts, 450 years' work is expected, most of which are police officers. We all know how tense the police are now, and this will mean that other tasks should then be pointed out which should not be solved. This in itself is expected to cost 365 million. kr. This will inevitably have consequences for the other tasks of the police and will contribute to longer processing times in an already much pressured police force. So we cannot support the proposal as it stands here. For us, the aim of border controls is not to control everyone. We do not want to bother ordinary and law-abiding citizens who travel cross and cross our borders every day, nor is the aim to complicate the transport of goods across the border, with the consequences that it may have for our business community. The aim of the efforts at the border that the government wants is the criminals, and we will best obtain them with a concerted effort in which controls go hand in hand with strengthened action against cross-border crime and enhanced cooperation with Sweden. Thank you for the floor. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107130630	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107130635	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I should just like to make it quite clear that this proposal has been put forward before the government made its decision on one-off and temporary border controls from Sweden. And we are not satisfied with what we want more. But it was we who made the proposal first, and that is why we are of course pleased that the government is now partly introducing our proposal. I understand that the Minister fully agrees with us that this is necessary, but that it cannot be introduced right now for reasons of resources. So when is it then that the government will introduce permanent border controls with more physical installations etc. From Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107130734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107130735	Thank you for the question, because it gives us reason to clarify a few things. When I pointed to the issue of resources, it was just to say that when a motion for a resolution like this is tabled, it would be fair to point out how one intends to solve the problems associated with it, including the economy and the major features of police officers. I think that the border controls introduced by the government are the smartest border controls, because it is not just border controls that stand alone, but it is also about ensuring that there is a centre for cooperation across the various police authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107130816	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107130818	In fact, when we agree on the need, I am surprised that the government will not then lay down a plan rather than how to implement what is, of course, necessary, something more than just one-off border controls. Because when we agree that there is this need, it is a question of having it implemented, of course with the training of more police officers, a plan for how to do that smarttest etc. etc. Does the Minister not agree that that is what must be the next step, so that a concrete plan will be put forward by the government on how to implement it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107130856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107130857	No, but I think that the proposer should have taken his proposal so far that he had said what would be done about the problems that it is acknowledged to be throwing away, namely the features of police resources and the economy needed for the proposal that is not the wisest thing to do, etc. It is a little too easy simply to put forward the proposal and say that one would like to have it, without regard to what it then implies with implications.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107130927	Thank you, and the next for a brief comment is Mr. Morten Messerschmide.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107130931	Thank you, President. I noticed that the Minister for Justice thought that it would bother citizens with additional border controls. It seems to me that this is a funny way of turning things around, because I think that much of what is illegally crossing the border is bothering more citizens than the border controls that would prevent the illegal crossing the border. That is why I would like the Minister of Justice to say a little more about this citizen he apparently connects with border controls. I do not recall that, in the period prior to Denmark's accession to the Schengen Treaty, we had citizens' groups for the abolition of border controls because of daily inconvenience or something like that. Well, I just never heard of it before. So what kind of nuisance seems to outweigh the beneficial effect that people in border areas would have, especially, of a solid daily border guard keeping illegals out of Denmark, the Minister of Justice believes so many citizens will be affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131029	Well, I am sorry because it illustrates that the questioner may not have been fully involved in the debate on the establishment of border controls. There were, of course, a lot of people who marked opposition to border controls because they live in Denmark and work in Sweden and could look forward to the inconvenience that it would be for them every day to be delayed in connection with the train shifts depending on how it was organised or in relation to the cows that might be if you had to check all road users who moved over the Øresund Bridge. There were some calculations which were advanced at the time, which pointed out that it would even give very, very long waiting times, and therefore one must also say in this situation that if the aim is to combat cross-border crime, which is sensible, we must make it wisest possible. The aim is, of course, to hit the criminals, not ordinary law-abiding citizens, who travel quite legitimately to take care of work and the like across the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131124	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131126	Now I have the pleasure of crossing the border with Sweden almost every week, and I consider it a small bright spot in everyday life to be allowed to show my passport to the good Swedish customs officials and thus declare: here I am, and I have nothing to hide. I am sure that there may be some of them who have a less rewarding errand ahead of them, who will then stay away. I also heard the Minister say that it would be bad for trade in goods with extended border controls. I'd like to know if there's any evidence of that. In other words, during the period we have now had temporary border controls, has border trade simply deteriorated?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131200-2	Well, that's why we've done it so that it's not permanent and all the time, but random as it is now. That's one of them. to ensure that the people who cross the border to take care of work, to ensure trade between Denmark and Sweden, etc., are least bothered. So, the fact is that if you do permanent border controls, there will be many people who, unlike the questioner, do not see it as a small bright spot to be delayed every day on the way to and from work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131230	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131233	Thank you. I think the Minister knows that I am a little interested in border controls. That is why I have also asked a number of questions about the consequences of this Swedish border control, and one of the answers I received shortly before Christmas was that the reinforced border control effort up to mid 2020 is expected to lead to longer processing times. In addition, efforts are expected to lead to a need for assistance across the police districts for a period of time. I would just like to know if the Minister is of the opinion that this random border control to Sweden is more important than overcoming the procedural times for the police in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131316	This is, of course, a balance, as I have explained, between the need to protect the border with Sweden, but to do so in a way that is to the minimum possible nuisance and where the resource traits, as there are, are also minimal. It is also quite right that we said that when we presented the decision to set up the border controls there will be a period of up to six months in which there will be a resource move which, of course, needs to be found elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131345	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131347	This is of course interesting because, in the opinion of the Radical Left at least, the real problem is that there are citizens waiting a year to resolve their burglary, rape or rape cases, that is, the things that really feel out there with the citizens around us. After all, this is what is going on for longer time now, in favour of such border controls, which may not catch so many people. What will the Minister say to the citizens who will then have to wait even longer to resolve their burglary, their violence or their other criminal cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131423	After all, we have had various debates over a long period of time, and I have noted that there are no limits to what the Radical Left can finance, if only border controls were abolished, to reductions in procedural times, both at the police and the prosecutor's office and at all possible other places. Let's hold on to what the fact is. The fact is that, for a period of six months, there will be a resource move that will be covered and that the situation will then be dealt with, just as we will add the additional funds that will be needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131452	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Roh for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131455	Now, sir. Morten Messerschmidt left, so I won't say it, but you can almost hear him come with the passport and sing: Here you have me back. But peace be to it. I do not know anyone who is against border controls, and it may sound surprising to the Minister for Justice, because I have always been in favour of border controls, and we have always had border controls, the Minister for Justice, and that is what I really would like to ask the Minister for Justice to confirm, and I am glad that the Minister for Justice says that we should do so intelligently. The fact is that although we did not have a border boom, for example. to Germany, and a stationary station earlier, had border controls; it was just done through back ground patrols. Should not the discussion be about whether we create the best targeted border control rather than whether we are for or against border control, Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131602	The thing about if you don't know anyone who's against border controls, I think you should go to a group meeting with the Radical Left. For now I have been told many times by another honourable Member of Parliament, and I am not going to mention the person who is present in the Chamber at the moment and a member of the Radical Left, that that is something that must be abolished as soon as possible. Let it go. What is the point is that it is true when the questioner says that this should be done intelligently. This is also why the main part of the cost of this new effort at the border is to the new centre for cooperation across the fight against organised crime between the Danish and Swedish police.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131653	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131654	In fact, I am a little disappointed that the Minister of Justice is falling into my trap, because that is totally unnecessary. I am also quite sure that Mr. Kristian Hegaard thinks border controls are a good idea and we have never been in a situation where we have not had border controls. It is more of a question of how we organize it. What is the Radical Left's appeal to the border controls that are being carried out and that are stationary is that people are mobile. Then you should also have mobile border controls instead of stationary border controls, because that is what is wasting money. Will the government work to ensure that, in our border controls in general, we have mobile border controls and not stationary border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131738	However, it is precisely in recognising that there is a need to coordinate the efforts of the authorities which are taking place not only on the border, but also in Sweden and Denmark respectively, that we are making the Centre for cooperation across crime prevention, which is an important step to counter the crime that exists, as is the type of border control that has been made on the border, also in the case of questions from before, are concentrated on spot checks, where intelligence information is used and so on. on when it is relevant and sensible to carry out controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131818	Thank you. The next is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131822	Thank you for the floor. I am pleased that the government has introduced entry controls from Sweden. When we founded New Citizens, Peter Seier Christensen, who was a co-founder, stood in Sweden and gave a speech saying that it is just a matter of time before border controls are introduced against Sweden. At that time people laughed at him, and they did so in virtually every party here in the Folketing, perhaps with the exception of DF, and they did so on the street. Then six months passed, and then we got border controls. After all, it has been repealed and now it has been re-introduced. And it is because we have had an incident which has shown that it was necessary. Speaking now of the priority of resources and resources and nuisances for citizens, I have to assume that when the government has introduced border controls on a temporary basis and as a sample, it is aware that it was nevertheless necessary. Should it turn out again that more is needed, can one expect that, unfortunately on the backside, the government will turn up control, or is the government firm that what you have now is the best thing you can possibly get?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131928	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107131929	Well politics is always for most parties, not for all parties arranged in such a way that you take the situation you are facing and find out what the relevant thing is to do. In relation to the situation we are in now, it is our view that what we have done is relevant to do. Should the situation show that it is completely irrelevant, there should of course not be border controls. Should the situation show that there is a need for more border controls, one will of course have to assess what is relevant to do just as it is applicable to all sorts of other policy areas. And now that fight for it happens sometimes in politics, whoever has the credit for this has succeeded. Is it the New Citizens' Party that drew attention to this in the election campaign, or is it the Danish People's Party that drew attention to it, by simply resubmitting a proposal that had already been put forward almost a year ago? It's not really that crucial. What is crucial is whether we are reacting to the crime that we are in danger of being hit by.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132032	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132034	I agree with the Minister on this point, but could the Minister perhaps not just say a few words about it, in other words, that in our neighbouring Sweden we have a situation in which a policy of aliens has been pursued, which even the Social Democrats have acknowledged has failed. It has created a terrible crime in Sweden. It has created some conditions that we do not want to see in Denmark under any circumstances. So, in recognition of the fact that these are the conditions in Sweden and that Sweden is still going the wrong way, does the Minister consider that more control or less control will be needed for Sweden in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132111	We need to assess this on an ongoing basis. Now we have the border controls for six months so far. Then it must be re-evaluated and communicated, etc. Again. And there, of course, you have to assess what the threat picture looks like in order to assess what the relevant thing is to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132129	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief remarks, and the next one to speak is Mr Beazley. Jep Bruus of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132153	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for instigating this debate. And as has already been pointed out, the reality has somewhat overtaken the time when this resolution was tabled. And I can also read that in the concluding remarks on the resolution, which is in fact a long list and recognition of the border controls, the temporary border controls introduced by the government in the light of the events we saw in the autumn, unfortunately. I will not read it all out, but it is, in fact, a very loyal support for us to have this control on the Danish-Swedish border, which is based on concrete intelligence and which aims to combat organised and cross-border crime in particular. I can also see that the Danish People's Party states in its comments that it is happy to participate in negotiations with the government on, among other things, better television surveillance in Copenhagen, plate readers, reinforced controls, etc. And I think that is quite natural: that we are dealing with what the Minister of Justice has also said about the threat picture that exists and reacts to it. And that is exactly what the government and the Social Democrats have done, and that is why it is also a positive response to the intention behind this motion for a resolution. Then we have a disagreement about whether or not to do this permanently. And it has to be said that the threat picture we have seen on the Danish-Swedish border has been that some of the developments we see in southern Sweden, but unfortunately elsewhere in Sweden, is not a development we want in Copenhagen. We do not want a situation where there are explosions in the streets against buildings where there are shootings and so on, which are, after all, some of the things that are developing. This is based on a threat picture from the police that there is a need to make even stronger efforts in relation to organised crime, and therefore it makes sense to have a protection on the Danish-Swedish border, which makes it possible to turn a little up and down depending on the threat picture, but of course also to build on the intelligence that we see. We look forward, of course, to continuing a good dialogue with the Danish People's Party and the other parties in the Danish Parliament. However, as the Minister for Justice has also explained, we cannot support this resolution to have a permanent border control on the Danish-Swedish border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132439	Thank you. There are some brief comments, the first is from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132443	What does the rapporteur say to the news that came, I think it was two days after Christmas, about the effectiveness of the Danish-German border control, where it was found that efficiency has increased dramatically after having fixed installations, because this means that the work of the police has become easier? Unfortunately, it is still not a permanent border control that we would like to have, but it is a border control which, while it works, has some physical installations which make it possible to do a search more quickly and use various other media, so that we can get a lot more criminals and illegals and whatever else. This is not the case with the one-off checks from Sweden. You can't do that, because there aren't these fixed installations. In other words, if we now agree on the need, should we not seek the best possible effectiveness in control by the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132552	I am therefore pleased that the temporary border controls we have on the Danish-German border are effective. It has also worked; we can look at the results. I think it is about 8,500 people who have been rejected at the border during the time it existed. And for me to see that and that is also what the assessment is based on... it is two different conditions that apply on the border with Germany and on the border with Sweden. And then there has been a need to have border controls between Denmark and Germany in a situation where the external borders of Europe had actually collapsed and there was a need for strict control over who and what comes in. The situation on the Danish-Swedish border is a little different, and there is the primary focus, as I said before, also of organised crime and the development, the escalation that has taken place, unfortunately also in the Copenhagen area, to which we have responded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132652	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132653	I just don't think that's the answer to my question. In other words, if you have controls that are not very effective, then it is clear that you will not catch very many illegal immigrants or criminals or whatever else, while, if you have a high level of efficiency, you will catch many more. And with the inefficient control one can assume that it is because there is no problem. However, we know that there are a large number of illegal immigrants in Sweden. There are people who have been expelled who may be able to enter Denmark through Sweden, and we cannot stop that when there is an inefficient border control.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132736	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132737	I am sorry if I did not answer the question precisely enough. It was actually the intention to do so. It is clear that if you build a permanent border control at the Danish-Swedish border, you will all the other things just catch some more. That's why it's also based on assessments of what's needed. And the assessment here is that there is a need to take action particularly against organised crime and that it is very much linked to the centre for increased police cooperation that has been created between the Danish and Swedish authorities and that by having these samples combined with intelligent border control we can respond adequately to the threat picture we see.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132817	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mr. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132820	Forgive me, but I simply do not really understand the attitude of the Social Democrats towards it, because it is a bit like sitting between two chairs. In other words, if you think that the border controls you now have, which are temporary, but rather I find it difficult to see the majority that has to abolish it down at the stationary Danish-German border, unfortunately work and if you believe that it works to make stationary border controls at certain times, why can you not support the Danish People's Party's proposal here? It seems a little strange to me that, on the one hand, it is said that it works, and we are happy with that and so on, but on the other hand, it does not really want to. Could we not have a clear response from the government to what people really believe in?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132920	I'm sorry, because I was really so deeply confused before, compared to what it was, the radical attitude was. But we can do that when it's your turn. As I have just said, there are two different assessments of the need, which is why one cannot compare the two scenarios, and that is why the things we have responded to in relation to the Danish-Swedish border are different from what is happening on the Danish-German border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132948	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107132949	It's not that hard to figure out what the Radical Left thinks. Because border controls have never been gone... you just have to know your story... but it's clear that if you run a narrative that there hasn't been border controls in the past, you'll be confused. But that is not the case; there has always been border controls. It's just a question of whether it's stationary or mobile. We believe that it is a poor use of police resources to make the stationary. I do not know if the rapporteur knows where the narrowest piece on Flensburg Fjord is. So it is not an art to enter Denmark if you want to enter Denmark, either as an illegal immigrant or to commit crime. That's just what we mean, and here it's just a little hard to figure out what Social Democracy means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133032	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133033	You can always learn something new. I must say that I also learn something new in this debate. Because in relation to what Mr. Jens Rohde says that it is clear what the Radicals think, I have to say that the debates I have had with Mr Rohde are clear. Kristian Hegaard, has been something quite different. Anyway, we have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133051	Thank you, and the next for a brief comment is Mr. Morten Messerschmide.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133054	Thank you, President. Yes, I must admit that I am also a little alarmed when I hear the Social Democrat rapporteur and perhaps in fact the symbiosis between the Social Democrat rapporteur and the government, which I assume is here, when we heard the Minister say before that it was fine with some periods without border controls, because then goods could be delivered. In this way, trade across countries would not be bothered, and then trucks could pass over with goods to supermarkets etc. Then I hear the rapporteur here talking about organised crime and so on, and that is what I am thinking: could it not be imagined that the criminals were so well organized that they might just drove during the periods when the government then opened the way for trade in goods to pass across the bridge? After all, criminals aren't that stupid that they can't figure out how to say, "Now it's there." Now it's not there. And when there is no border control, there is a green light for the criminals. That is why I simply do not understand how the government, and therefore its one party here, cannot just fully recognise that border controls are a good idea and more border control is an even better idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133159	But that stops agreement with the Danish People's Party then. It is clear that if we built high walls around the whole nation, we would have even greater control over who came in. I guess that almost goes without saying. And then we have explained why it is that, in the light of the threats that are, we have taken hold of those actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133222	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133223	It will certainly be a mess if we are about to build high walls, because then it will be a new day, and then they will have to be demolished again, and then it will be Thursday, and then they will have to be built up again and things like that. Then the construction business starts, I hear. It might be much simpler if we just chose to say: Now we are installing license plate scanners and everything else that needs to be done at the border crossing point, and then we are giving them the resources needed to be active and to ensure the safety of the Danes 24-7. What is the argument that criminals should have free passage during selected periods?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133254	I don't know if I can come up with a good argument for them to have to. I don't think anyone thinks so. On the other hand, we have made this smart border control to strengthen police cooperation between Denmark and Sweden aimed at organised crime, and this is reflected in the temporary border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133312	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133317	Thank you. This idea of border control for Sweden, at least, arose in the Social Democratic Party as a result of these explosions, which unfortunately took place in the metropolitan area in late summer. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur if he can confirm that if we look at the experience of border controls with Germany, it is somewhat limited which of the more serious weapons have been seized there. So, from border control to Germany was introduced until now 0 firearms have been seized 0 firearms! Can the rapporteur say what is happening now when the experience from the German border is that it is very limited what has been found of weapons so that a whole lot of bombs, firearms and all sorts of other things were obtained just off the Swedish border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133412	Well, the border controls that have been made against Sweden are intelligent, smart, whatever, and I hope that all border controls are. After all, it is a border control which is built closely together with the increased and enhanced police cooperation to monitor and take action against organised crime, and that is why it has to be seen in a context. It is quite true that it is also a reaction to the picture we saw in the autumn, and therefore one cannot make that comparison.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133440	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133442	However, does the rapporteur agree that the experience of stopping the import and seizure of strong weapons as firearms, or in particular what is more serious, is a very limited effect, in other words that it is not something that has been found at the German border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133459	In other words, the figures I have seen from the border controls we have had on the Danish-German border have been positive in relation to the effect that has been achieved. And as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also said, it has become more and more effective as time has passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133516	Thank you. The last brief remark, at least so far, is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133521	Thank you, President. Does the rapporteur agree with me that the preventive effect, when there is a border control, is that there are more people who say: okay, so I guess we should not smuggle weapons across the border, because we might be caught? And does the rapporteur agree that a permanent border control will have the effect that there are more people who then say: okay, it cannot help that we get there, because we are being controlled, and so we should not go to Denmark or at least not bring weapons to Denmark? Of course, we cannot prevent anyone from entering Denmark if they have passports and everything, but border controls are just as much to ensure that criminals don't just rush into Denmark like that. In this respect, it is also important to say that the Swedes have for a long time had border controls and checked those who have come to Sweden. But is one of the problems with border controls from Denmark to Sweden, at least at the Øresund Bridge, that the payment facility is on the Swedish side and that it is then necessary to set up a new facility on the Danish side if border controls are to be introduced? Is this an obstacle to the introduction of border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133627	I do not need to be aware of the importance of such technical installations for the introduction of border controls. However, I would like to respond to what is at stake is what the need has actually been for what we have introduced. It has, of course, been a response to the explosions and other events we have seen in the Copenhagen area, and a need to strengthen the Danish-Swedish police cooperation with a focus on organised crime, and that is what temporary border controls have also been part of the solution to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133657	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133658	Well now, permanent border control is not a thoughtful situation. Of course, if the government does not want to help implement it, then it may be a thoughtful situation. But the experience of border controls, including that of Germany, is of course also that people think before they start taking something to Denmark, and that the criminals think before they start crossing the border, if they do not have legal access to Denmark, and that is the preventive effect that we can also achieve at the Swedish borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133730	Well, there is the need so differently assessed, and we are responding to the situation with the means that we think are right, in relation to the threat picture and the intelligence image that is, in relation to the Danish-Swedish border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133750	There is one more brief comment, and it is for Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133753	It's kind of just following on from mr. Kristian Hegaard's remark that no firearms have been found: it is factually wrong. Guns have been found. Firearms have then been found which apparently could not shoot in the situation, but there were both firearms and ammunition in a car that was found recently. Furthermore, I can tell you that at this time last year, after three years of border controls, border controls have triggered 5,479 charges and 801 weapons have been seized. So that we are so focused on firearms must, of course, be responsible for the Radical Left, but can the rapporteur not admit that 801 weapons that have been seized, after all, have to be said to be part of three years?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133842	I have to confess that I am standing up here and being paperless and I simply cannot assess whether one or the other figure hits precisely. However, I would like to admit that if that is the number, it simply confirms what I have said in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133858	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Social Democrat rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107133916	Thank you for the floor. Let me start by saying that I agree with the authors of the motion that border controls are an effective means in specific situations and, above all, in terms of our internal security. I also agree that border controls have a major preventive effect, which makes it often difficult to measure direct figures, what the real effect is; and that, of course, it is important that we look after our country, and whether the challenge is migration and refugee flows or organised crime, it is a challenge that can be solved, among other things. with border controls. And since we have had temporary border controls in Denmark since 2016, we have seen this debate many times when we have had to debate whether it should be extended and have found that we are constantly in a situation where this is the case. The comments on the motion for a resolution highlight a number of achievements achieved through border controls against Germany, and although the situation is of course slightly different from that of Sweden, there are still some lessons to be learned. Reference is made, among other things, to: the number of weapons seized, the number of people rejected and the number of charges that have been made in relation to trafficking in human beings, the possession of weapons and drug trafficking, and all this makes us in the Left happy that we constantly have border controls against Germany. Referring to the fact that the threat of terrorism remains serious, it shows that border controls are now also necessary against Sweden. And then you can understand it with terror in many different ways, but just the situation that Sweden is in a situation where there are so many bomb blasts in Sweden every year, does that mean that we must take it seriously, also in Denmark, regardless of what the motive behind the bombings is. In the Left, we are very much in favour of free movement, but we must also face up to the fact that, with the threat picture that is against Denmark and as long as Europe's external border is not under control, when we put all these factors together, we will have to have border controls. However, it is essential that it is intelligently designed so that it is least bothered and at the same time provides the necessary security and control. There has to be some sort of balance between the resources we use and what we achieve with border controls, and the equilibrium we must constantly see if we can hit. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party wants to impose a permanent physical border control on the government between Denmark and Sweden, and when it comes to border controls, its introduction must depend on whether or not the Schengen acquis is met. The Danish authorities are constantly assessing the current threat picture in Denmark, and we are very comfortable with that in the Left. That is why we must listen to the authorities when we set up border controls. Right now, we have border controls against Sweden, which are geared to the assessment of the authorities and the current threat picture. We support that border control. However, we cannot support a proposal that wants a permanent physical border control, and even if we look at the arguments that are based on the constraints we have under the European Union, it must be something that we are constantly taking a stand on. After all, we have some sort of de facto permanent border control when it comes to the Danish-German border, and of course we should not have that forever unless the threat picture is not changed. We must ensure that Denmark is a safe and secure country to be in, but we must not set up border controls just for the sake of border controls. That must be something we're constantly looking at. And, of course, I hope, and we all do so in the Left, that one day we will get to where such active border controls are not necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134313	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first one is for Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134315	Although the rapporteur does not make a direct reference to this, the pressure from Brussels on the rapporteur's speech is clearly felt. It has to be said that, in principle, one is in favour of freedom of movement, not really goods, capital, service providers, workers, but then it has just had the negative effect of having an internal market for deep criminals, and one would like to do just that. Or is that what you want? In addition to the fact that the Left is represented here in the Folketing, the Left belongs, in a European context, to a group that sees something different, it has to be said, on the subject of border controls. I mean, when I follow the way Mr. Mad Fugledes's colleagues in the European Parliament who, incidentally, are very, very close to the clinic, almost finger-flicking with the Radical Left, I have to say that this is a rather different line from the one we hear from Mr Fugle. Mads Birded here today. That is why I would just like to ask, quite simply, whether we can count on it now, Mr President. Mads Birde says.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134413	It's probably hard to ask me if you can count on what I'm saying. I count on everything I say every day myself. If others do, I can't really vouch for that, but I hope so. Otherwise, it makes no sense at all to be here when I speak, at least. After all, I can see that there are some who are. But when it comes to the challenges we face when it comes to border controls, it is, of course, a balance. We are very pleased with the agreements we have, also within the framework of the European Union, and we support them in the Left. We are just not blind to this, and we are not, together with a number of European countries, who have introduced border controls on a temporary basis again, whether Austria, Hungary, France or Belgium, etc., that something has changed in relation to the ideal image that is the basis of the agreements we have under the auspices of the European Union. After all, that is what we have consistently taken a position on, and that is why we support the ideal, namely that we want to come to a reality where we do not need so much border controls, but also realise that, as things stand now, border controls are necessary both against Germany and against Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134517	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134518	But if I take a little interest in it, what can be said, special affinity, the Left has with the Radical Left in relation to European policy, it is due to the way in which we liked our talents when we sat in government. I remember, for example. the most recent draft budget proposed by the Left of the Ministry of Finance and no funds had been allocated for border controls. This was expected to be possible during the course of the negotiations. And that is what makes it that probably not just I, but quite a lot of people around the country are thinking: do they mean it now seriously, or is it that with border controls just such a necessary biting that one has to have until the criminal morass that the internal market has created had to drive over? We need to know very clearly, sir. Mads Birded, whether the Left means it right into the leg, or whether it's just spin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134602	Well, we mean everything I've stood here and said from the platform right to my leg, and that's the only reason I said it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134610	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134614	I'd like to ask Mr. Mads Fuglede: When has border controls actually been abolished, and what is the change in the threat picture in terms of crime, immigration, which means that the Left has changed its position from being a supporter of mobile border controls to stationary border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134641	There has always been border controls, and it is such a strange form of vocabulary to claim otherwise. It is a discussion about how there is border control and how we do it wisely. This is constantly changing because the challenges at the border and for Denmark are constantly changing. And at times a very zealous and attentive border control is needed, especially at times when we have been under pressure on the Danish borders, because the external border in Europe has not been secured, or also at times when the threat of terrorism has been very great and it is still gone. This means that the greater the threat, the more funds we need to secure our country. And one of those means is a better border control.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134743	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134746	Well, I'm just still pointing out that we have 7,000 km of coastline and that it's very, very easy to get from Germany to Denmark with those few stationary border controls as there really are. But I'm actually very happy that Mr. Birds confirm that there has always been border controls. Now there was a radical New Year's conference this weekend, when the President of the Left was visiting Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen and there he argued that border controls are necessary, but that it should be gifted and that it should be mobile. When does the Left live it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134830	Well, we believe that we are doing this now that we, in strong cooperation with the authorities, are assessing what action is to be taken. And it is an intelligent border control that has many different strings. One of these is more or less permanent installations, another is police cooperation, and the other is something that is going on in completely different forums: intelligence cooperation, etc. It's not that kind of monocausal area that we find ourselves in... there's a lot of ways to do this. We need many tools to secure our country, and border controls are one of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134906	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107134910	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. But there is simply something I do not understand. If the rapporteur agrees that border controls are good at least temporary border controls, which comply with some sacred EU rules and that they work well at the German border, where efficiency has increased dramatically since they were given pavilions, what they did not have before, why is it that a border control is being made for Sweden, which the Left apparently also supports, which is only one-off and does not have the effective things that are at the Danish-German border? I don't think that makes any sense. If you think that border controls are a good thing and that the state has a responsibility towards citizens, then I understand the rapporteur's view: why is it not with Sweden, because it would also work effectively there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135012	But it is very conceivable that it can develop in this direction. However, we are in a situation now where the border control response that is available to Sweden and to Germany has different challenges. It's something a little different, you have to solve the two different places. And it may well develop at the border with Sweden, so that we have to do some of what we have done at the Danish-German border, where we, as the political landscape, and as we consider that the challenge is for Denmark, have got something that is not a permanent border control, but a kind of substitute for it, by constantly extending the border controls that are down there. It may well be that this is also the development that comes on the border with Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135101	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135102	It just doesn't seem logical that criminals and illegal immigrants and exiled foreigners should have easier to get from Sweden to Denmark than from Germany to Denmark it seems completely illogical. So the rapporteur's idea must be that we do not want to use the funds to secure the Danes, that is to say that the Danes are simply not worth enough money to provide sufficient resources to secure all the limits in which we can prevent such threats.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135138	But there is nothing more important than the security of our country, and that is what we in the Left believe. There we are in complete agreement with the Danish People's Party. How do we achieve that security? There is, of course, the question of asking the authorities to assess how best to look after Denmark. And the authorities, in cooperation with the political layer, consider that this is something that can be changed on an ongoing basis, as has happened at the Danish-German border. If there is a change in the threat picture at the Danish-Swedish border, we must also change the effort there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135215	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vermund for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135217	Thank you for the floor. The current controls on entry from Sweden have been introduced by the current government and, moreover, it has been introduced because of some attacks in Copenhagen, which it is assumed could have been avoided if people had stopped at the border, i.e. people who traveled from Sweden to Copenhagen. So it is introduced at the back of some attacks that could possibly have been avoided. Now we are talking about a motion for a resolution here where there is nowhere to be said how border controls, immigration controls from Sweden should be introduced. It does not say, as far as I can see, whether it should be firm or permanent, we would like to see it, but yet the Left is voting against this. Does this mean that the Left was in fact in addition to the border controls recently imposed by the Socialist Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135316	Well, in an ideal world, we were preferably without as much border control as we now have, but we are not living in an ideal world. We live in a world of real threats that are constantly changing and we try to set up our border controls so that it best responds to the challenges that Denmark faces. That is why we need to have intelligent border controls where we do so, that we give priority to our resources in the wisest possible way. That's what the Left backs up on. If that changes, so that we need more border controls, then the Left backs it. If there is a time when, for blissful reasons, we can turn down border controls, we will also support it. But it must be an intelligent border control in which we use resources in such a way that we have the most security for our money, both at the border and at the police tasks that otherwise cannot be solved if we are only looking at border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135411	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135413	I am glad that the rapporteur himself says that we are not living in the ideal world, because in the ideal world, New Citizens probably had not existed and then the Left would have been a great and powerful party yet. When we do not live in the ideal world, it is also about the influx of people who have been to Sweden and who are still in Sweden and the crime that is developing in Sweden is increasing and not decreasing. From this point of view and in view of the fact that this border control was not introduced by the previous government, but by the present one, I find it a little bit worrying that we are constantly acting backwards, that is to say, constantly saying: well, yes, but it might have been avoided if we had done so and so. If there's any more, we'll go back to the back. Can the rapporteur not see that human life is in fact at risk by not being at the forefront for once?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135459	In fact, I think this is a very, very relevant issue to raise, because it is clear that, when priority is given to action for the security of the empire, it is something that is always radicalised and something that becomes more demand for when there are unhappy events. And it is because of unhappy events which, fortunately, have mostly done material damage, but which could have ended up with something much worse, that you have done this and, of course, you would have liked to have missed it. But I do not think that it can be any different when it is limited resources that you have at your disposal to look after your country than that you have to take the starting point of what you are now experiencing as an attack on Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135545	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107135605	Thank you. On Sunday, one of my friends, Pernille, was waved in at the border with Germany. Her little sister, 15 years old, had forgotten her passport. It's probably easy enough to remember your passport, many might think, but is it really an important police task to check it out? Is it more important to check the passports of innocent Danes than to investigate the burglary, violence or rape of guilty criminals? Now more than 1.25 billion have been spent. kr. on border controls and over 2.3 million personal hours. In Denmark there are over 7,000 kilometres of coastline, and many border crossings are unguarded, and if you want to enter, you can do so regardless of border controls which block a few lanes. So there is no reason for more expensive and inefficient border controls. The Radical Left is therefore more concerned with investigative, intelligence-based, intelligent and targeted cross-border political cooperation. That is what makes the difference, that is what captures the large criminal networks. During the Christmas holidays, it even emerged that fewer politicians are being trained than was intended, and this means that more police officers from the fight against crime are looking at passports. If you look at the weapons found at the German border, it is primarily slingshots and pepper sprays, and it is therefore expensive when it costs 1.25 billion. kr. to pollinate slingshots and pepper sprays. They started by saying that two guns had been found. This is then reduced to zero because it was found that it was by a police intervention other than the border controls themselves that the firearms had been found. Is it because no one is smuggling dangerous weapons in anymore? No, unfortunately I do not think so, and that is precisely why border controls are false security. Every hour that goes on to check the passports of innocent Danes goes from the real problem, namely that too many Danes wait for over a year to solve crimes such as burglary, violence or rape. On 12 November, when the new border control to Sweden came into force, I took the chance and tested early in the morning at 9 a.m. 8, if I wanted to get through, which is why I brought my red-bellied passport in my hand, and in the other hand I had a cup of earl grey tea, and then I simply drove across the border. Nothing happened. I wasn't stopped. Some would say that it was because later that day it came out that it was at 1 p.m. 11, border controls opened, but then we must hope that the criminals slept a little longer that day. But even after trying that same day, I was stopped, and that's exactly the point. There's no difference between before and after, just besides the fact that the police need a lot of extra resources on it. That is why, on a question before Christmas, I asked: what are the police going to downgrade in relation to the new control to Sweden? What are the consequences of this? They will only get bigger if the Danish People's Party's proposal comes into force. The answer is that there is expected to be a period of 6-8 months during which staff resources will have to be found by re-prioritising police tasks. Until sufficient police officers have been released from other tasks and adequately trained with policy clearances, the efforts until mid 2020 are expected to lead to longer processing times, i.e. longer processing times. So when Mr. and Mrs Denmark cannot understand next year that the police are not moving out quickly enough is due in particular to border controls. That is why the proposals of the Danish People's Party, with the information we have already received, will only lead to longer processing times, and so the Radical Left will not be involved. We are concerned about security rather than symbolism policy, and we will therefore vote against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140048	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First from Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140052	However, these were seldom bad arguments... really bad arguments... against the Danish People's Party's proposal. That means that because you can't stop all of them that's the one, really bad argument, because of course you have to stop as many as possible. The second less clever argument is that if you spend a lot of resources on border controls, you cannot spend a lot of resources on clearing up. But what if you added more resources, if you made sure that more police officers came, as you have actually agreed, and if you trained more and added more resources in the whole area? This isn't a zero-sum game in this area. It is not, of course, the case that something is going on from somebody else by guaranteeing border controls. This is simply factually wrong. The Radical Left does not seem to care about the safety of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140202	Yes, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140206	It's a zero-sum game, isn't it? I would like to know how Mrs Marie Krarup can spend the same money twice, because that is what is being proposed. It is clear that if you spend money on border controls, as I know Mrs Krarup does, then they cannot go to solve other police cases. Then they can't go to other investigations of cases, so of course there's a connection between it. If you choose to use the resources you give to the police for one effort, which, according to Mrs Krarup's proposal, should be border control, then they cannot go to other interventions. That goes without saying. That is logical; it follows from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140240	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140242	But, of course, resources need to be provided where they are needed. So that's not an argument. We cannot say either: we have planned this year that there will be so many calls and so many calls, and if there will be an extra need for some crime, then we will not make any further calls. Actually, we do. Actually, we have to. In fact, we need to take reality into account. And when there is a threat of cross-border crime or the intrusion of illegal immigrants into Denmark, it is clear that it needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140320	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140322	We've got the cops, we've got good cops. I think it's in the vicinity of 13,000, and people have to correct me if it's wrong. It is clear that if they stand at the border, as some of them unfortunately do, they cannot solve crime elsewhere. So of course there is coherence in how to choose to use the resources that the police have. There are, of course, limited resources available everywhere. You cannot use the same policeman twice, wherever you would like, so of course there is coherence in where you choose to use them. Do we choose to use them on border controls where it has little effect, or should we use them on real police work, where it creates more impact?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140358	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140402	Thank you for a good and objective speech by the rapporteur. I can now see that Mrs Pernille Vermund is not present; Mrs Pernille Vermund rebuked the rapporteur on the issue of firearms, but let us get the facts straight. The Minister of Justice answered the question two months ago, that is, on 12 November, and the answer was that exactly 0 firearms have been found.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140439	I can confirm that I have read exactly the same answer as Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140443	Is there a follow-up short remark? No. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140450	Thank you. It is still not quite clear to me what the Radical Left really thinks, according to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Jens Roh questions here earlier in the debate. However, if we are to interpret this somewhat, it is a matter of the Radical Left supporting the intelligent cross-border enhanced police cooperation. That, I suppose, is also what the rapporteur has said here. In other words, the Radical Left supports the part of border controls that has been introduced, which is about strengthening police cooperation between the Danish and Swedish police with a centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140525	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140527	Thank you. I welcome a clear indication of this because it represents about half of the temporary border controls we introduced on the Danish-Swedish border. Then we need an answer as to whether the Radical Left will help finance that part, because it is not quite clear to me in the debate we have had either. Because there it was all taken over a comb. So should I take it that the Radical Left expresses support for the increased police cooperation and the centre, as an expression of the radical Left's desire to help find funding for that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140557	There is no doubt that the Radical Left is interested in close cooperation between police units, both in the case of the Nordic countries and in the case of the European Union, where the reservation of law leads to enormous reductions in police work. So I can only confirm that we in the Radical Left are very concerned about this and support the intentions behind the cooperation between the Danish and Swedish police authorities on this proposed centre. This is one of the better proposals in the security and security package.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140629	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Radicals, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140651	After all, we have now had a slightly longer debate on border controls here today, and I would therefore like to separate things a little. Because when you talk about border controls, you actually talk about two things. There is immigration control, which is, of course, about standing on the physical border and controlling passports and travellers. Today we have it on the border with Germany in three selected places. It is quite costly and the result in my view is not the goal of the effort, but there is a majority that has chosen to maintain it, and that is the way it is. I would much rather that the police could choose flexibly when it is smartest to carry out such a check, which is why I am actually very pleased that what the Minister of Justice has introduced on the border with Sweden is a random check. In fact, I think that is quite a lot wiser than control against Germany, because the purpose of this control is to learn more about cross-border traffic, not necessarily to control the wheels and scrubs that move across it. That is actually why I and the SF support the Minister's model and not the one that the Danish People's Party has presented here today. However, border controls, alongside entry controls, may also consist of a crime control system, and I am actually much more enthusiastic about that. It can take place on the border, but it can also take place inside the country and have a surprise moment and consist of many government efforts at once. It makes a lot of sense, and I think that should be backed up. What is crucial here is that, on the basis of intelligence and on the basis of cooperation with the authorities of other countries, the police themselves plan when and how they fight against cross-border crime. It is wise, and it is also wise, to set up such a cooperation centre with the Swedes, which is similar to what you have so good experience with and have tried with the Germans. I have great pleasure in the many press releases issued by the South and South Jutland Police on all their catches. In conclusion, it also makes a difference to me that the police themselves have backed up border controls against Sweden, while in fact they were more critical of entry controls at the German border. So in the SF we say no to the Danish People's Party's proposal, but we say yes to the Minister for Justice's model because, for example, it is. is important to learn whether there are links between the Danish and Swedish gang crimes. Because there is no doubt that we should not have Swedish conditions with daily explosions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140947	There are no brief comments, so we thank the Socialist People's Party rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107140957	Thank you for that, President. In 1954 we got the Nordic passport union, which meant that citizens of the Nordic countries could travel freely across borders between the Nordic countries without having to show passports. That scheme was well-founded and for more than 60 years very well functioning. The Nordic countries are similar in so many areas in terms of history, culture, living standards and governance, and most of the countries are bound together by closely related languages. The principle of passport freedom between Denmark and Sweden was unfortunately abandoned when, on 4 January 2016, Sweden introduced requirements for the display of ID on entry into Sweden from Denmark. On the same day, Denmark introduced passport checks on the border between Germany and Denmark, where passport checks had otherwise been abolished since 2001 as a result of Schengen cooperation. The passport checks at the German border have, to say the least, not been free. It has cost more than 1 billion until May 2019 alone. kr., we know from the Danish Radio's Detector. But, says the supporters of passport control, it's important to expose crime. Monday Morning in January 2019 took the trouble to look at what it is for criminal matters that are revealed at passport control. Citizens who have forgotten their passports or have loaded too many cans of beer on the trailer fill the statistics very well. On the other hand, according to Monday morning's report, no firearms were seized. The question is whether the many, many millions could have been spent more sensibly if the aim was to combat crime. Passport checks at the Danish-German border are primarily symbolic. It is more or less constant at the major border crossings. On the other hand, it is sporadic, to say the least, at all the smaller border crossings. So if you want to enter Denmark unnoticed, you can easily get it if you just have a minimal knowledge of the geography of the border country. Police investigation of an explosion at the Skattestyrelsen building in Copenhagen in August 2019 pointed out that the perpetrators in the particular case had crossed the Øresund Bridge. This prompted the government in October to introduce periodic border controls on entry from Sweden. Unfortunately, this initiative too has to be described as symbolic policy. If the aim is to prevent Swedes from travelling in with bombs or dynamite to blow up public buildings in Copenhagen, the chance to prevent it is by asking to see people's passports quite poor. In order to find bombs and dynamite, it requires thorough and consistent searches of vehicles, that is to say, a completely different and much more time-consuming control in a completely different spending class. Today we are dealing with a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party which, without the scope of the proposed border control, must be understood as meaning that even more money will be spent on border controls between Sweden and Denmark. A majority in the Folketing has an incomprehensible preference for symbolic and expensive passport control, which is carried out at a time when the police have many other challenges and urgent tasks. If it is about combating cross-border crime and terrorism, the answer is not to put policemen on the border and check passports. It is a close and coordinated cooperation with the police in our neighbouring countries. In the Enhedslisten we do not support the existing passport controls, either at the German or Swedish borders, and we cannot, of course, support this resolution from the Danish People's Party either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141316	Thank you, and there is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141319	Well, I feel compelled to both congratulate the SF rapporteur and the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for some good, talented, substantial, right-wing speeches about border controls, but I am not just standing up to ask support questions that good is not the world, sir. Peder Hvelplund. I have to ask whether this speech means that the Enhedslisten supports Schengen cooperation in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141350	No, as you know, the Enhedslisten was also opposed to the lifting of the legal reservation, but we are in favour of cross-border police cooperation between countries. What is crucial for us is that we ensure that crime prevention is dealt with and, of course, that the police have the resources to do so, but that does not mean that we support Schengen cooperation. There are, of course, a number of major problems in connection with Schengen cooperation, and crime prevention work can easily be done without being a member of Schengen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141423	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141425	But then we'll be there again. I think it is simply thought-provoking how many people sit between two chairs and do not pursue their own arguments. So Schengen cooperation, as far as border controls are concerned, which I understand the Enhedslisten is against, has nothing to do with our legal reservations. That's not part of it. It is, of course, the asylum policy itself, where I thought we had a common breach area where we could agree and where we need something more European Union. But peace be to it. All that, sir. Peder Hvelplund is saying that the Enhedslisten supported Schengen cooperation with or without legal reservation. And it's just interesting, all the time that you still argue that Denmark should leave the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141508	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141509	Now the Enhedslisten is not opposed to border controls. In other words, we think it might be sensible to be able to maintain some sort of border control. It could also be about, for example. veterinary frontiers. There may also be other cases where it might be sensible to introduce some sort of border control, and that is one of the things that will be abolished by Schengen, which limits us in relation to the introduction of border controls in cases where there may be a good concrete justification for having it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141533	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141541	Thank you, President. I think this is a very interesting proposal. For, on the one hand, our border controls should be primarily where they are necessary. Where we have seen that there has been a challenge over the last few years, there have been mainly migrants, asylum seekers, etc. who came up through Europe, mainly from the Middle East and Africa, etc. That is why border controls against Germany are important and necessary. On the other hand, however, in relation to our Nordic neighbours, there has not been a great challenge, at least not to the same extent, nor has there been the same pressure against Denmark. As a former member of the Nordic Council, I am actually very much in favour of removing what we call border barriers, both physical border barriers, but also of being able to settle in our Nordic neighbouring countries as easily as possible or to live in Copenhagen and work in Malmö or vice versa. That said, and we all know that we must not end up as Sweden; we must not end up as Malmö has unfortunately grown up in Sweden, especially in Malmö, and that is why we see crime across the Danish-Swedish border. One of the examples of why we should introduce this border control was from the Danish People's Party, among others. the assassination or the bomb that was at the Tax Authority, and of course it also puts things in a little relief. That is why, although we are not happy with the situation, we support the temporary border controls introduced by the government wholeheartedly. And I think we should use the border controls introduced by the government to see what is further of need. We are not afraid to say that if it is necessary to scale up temporary border controls, we would like to do so. If it is necessary to do it wiser or smarter, we are also open to it. So I think we should use the situation to say: what are we doing in the future? And as several parties have concluded by those who support the current temporary border controls, it has somewhere overtaken this proposal and made it less necessary. That is why we do not support the resolution as it stands here, but we support the temporary border controls as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141816	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141820	Thank you. Now we have such a common dull past or light past, depending on the temperament of the same party. And what puzzles me a little is that when you discuss border controls and I know that Mr. Marcus Knuth has been a very warm supporter of border controls in the time he was also in the Left, so it's as if you always refer to the year 2015, because that broke it all down, and suddenly we saw them. But the truth is, sir. Marcus Knuth, that the first border control we saw in 2011 was because the then President of the Left, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen should have sold an early retirement reform to the Danish People's Party. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141903	Now, as I said, we have a past in the same party. But it kind of sounded like sir. Jens Rohde asked me a question as rapporteur for the Left. So I am no longer, so I would just like to conclude what the Conservatives think about this particular motion for a resolution: border controls to the south are absolutely necessary, and given the situation in Malmö and Sweden, a temporary border control is unfortunately also necessary against Sweden. Even if it is necessary in the long term to turn it up, I hope with all my heart not, because I am in favour of a Nordic and Scandinavia where we are as closely linked as possible. But, unfortunately, developments in Sweden speak their own language.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141941	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107141944	I was just using the frame of reference that is constantly being used in the debate. And one of them is the one with 2015, and that's where we could just see it all collapse, etc. And I just think that, for the sake of history, it should be borne in mind that the Left and Conservatives began to argue in 2011 that there should be border controls and then introduced them. But now that you are so excited about this temporary stationary border control, why do you not make it permanent and agree to the Danish People's Party's proposal that it works and that it is necessary and important for the safety of the Danes? For then we could at least at the Danish-German border, for example. Make more lanes so that it does not bother citizens, as it does today, where there is only one lane to run on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142032	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. Then it is the rapporteur who has to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142035	I am glad that with a past in the Left we have in common that we have a very colourful temper, so I am pleased about that. But yes, of course the need for border controls goes further back than 2015. It also goes back to the years up to 2015, when the social democratic government's many relaxations brought more and more people to Denmark. It was then chosen not to introduce it. However, in relation to just introducing a stationary border control for the sake of a stationary border control, I do not think that is necessarily the right thing to do. We need to use temporary border controls more closely to see how we can do this the wisest way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142111	Thank you. Commitment is good, but we also have time limits that we must respect. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142126	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I shall try to be brief now that we have had a debate where we have been about everything. While border controls have been going on, police response time has increased throughout Denmark and the average processing time from notification to charge for example. Theft has increased markedly. So there are clear consequences of border controls, because the resources previously spent on response time, on charges, on police procedures are now being spent on border controls. I think that the observations made in the motion for a resolution are allegations for which there is no evidence in relation to the great success that has been felt in introducing Danish border controls between Denmark and Germany, and when you hold it against what it has had from the consequences in terms of money, resources and procedures for the citizens of the rest of Denmark who need the police resources, I do not think it has been worth it. So we are clearly voting against this motion for a resolution. It is clear that we need to go a long way to prevent terrorist attacks in Denmark, but that is why we have our skilled intelligence services. Terror attacks are not stopped with passport control. We should rather ensure that Danish police are present locally in Denmark, where they are needed on the streets and alleys and not just at the Øresund Bridge, where they stand and freeze.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142246	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142250	I was actually thinking that I wanted to relax now, because it's pretty much the same thing you hear all the time. But when you say that it is not worth it, I still think that I would say: what about all the people who were initially opposed to border controls, but who now have to recognize that, especially in the border area against Germany, I think it is the mayor of Aabenraa who is out to say that he has changed completely about it; of course he supports it now, because he can see that it is right that you stop something that you do not want into Denmark. Isn't the Danes worth it? Isn't it important to stop this kind of crime? And by the way, as I also said to the radical rapporteur, this is not a zero-sum game. It is possible to add resources from elsewhere. We have had the defense and the Home Guard to help at the Danish-German border. Something similar could be done in relation to Sweden. So it is not necessarily the same policeman who has to stand in two places. You don't have to think like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142355	Thank you for the question. The Danes are clearly worth it, and that is also why we say: Let's put in evidence-based, let's put in where we know it works. I would ask the rapporteur to try to imagine that we spent the 1.2 billion. kr. on intelligent and targeted investigation in relation to the 2,200 gang members, organized criminals we have in Denmark, instead of mass control, i.e. to imagine that we spent 2,3 million personal hours not to mass control, but to targeted control of organized criminals. I think we owe it to the Danes. I think the Danes are worth it, so we are going to solve crimes and solve crime with something that we know to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142457	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142459	But this is not just organized crime, it must be directed against. After all, we must also stop illegal immigrants; we must stop people who have been expelled from Denmark, people who, for example, have been expelled from Denmark. We have now had this debate on foreign fighters. We will not be able to do so if we do not have border controls. So there are other things, other than precisely organised crime, which, of course, is an important area and which, of course, must also be investigated in other ways. But the thing about saying that it is worthless is simply factually wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142535	But the rapporteur must be impressed when former head of PET Hans Jørgen Bonnichsen questions the effect of border controls. Hans Jørgen Bonnichsen does so on 7 January 2019 in Berlingske, where he asks the same questions that I am trying to ask from here: What effect does it have? How many convictions have come out of those charges? What are the grounds for refusal at the border? is also the forgotten passport and rejected passport? And are these traffic charges? etc. etc. After all, we have no evidence to say that it is a success and that it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142615	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Alternative's rapporteur, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107142633	Thank you for the floor. I grew up in Snekkersten, just south of Helsingør. When I was a kid, you went over by the ferry, and at first you had to show passports, and then there was a period when you didn't have to. And when I was a child, it was also an Astrid Lindgren-land, and there were a lot of things about political correctness that were quite different in Sweden. Crime was lower, and the major, massive problems we have today with foreigners from Muslim countries did not exist. They exist today, and that is the reality we have to deal with. I have heard a lot of words today from rapporteurs who say something about on the one hand and on the other, and that we must of course look after Denmark, but... And every time you sneak this in, it is with the risk that there are human lives that this is going to go beyond maybe not necessarily in the form of killings, but in the form of rapes, violence, abuse and crimes such as those we have seen in Copenhagen, which have now been the reason for the introduction of this temporary spot checks on entry from Sweden. I would really like to see us from the Danish side being at the forefront and not at the rear when we look after Denmark. And for me, it is perfectly natural that when a neighbouring country, which has been very, very close to us in the past, also culturally, develops in a totally wrong direction, we tighten control of that country and say: The problems you have caused your society, we do not want to have into our society. There are many advantages in being able to move across countries, but there are also disadvantages. And if you are not completely open to the fact that the disadvantages are being hit by innocent people out there; if you do not realise that you have a responsibility to protect the people who are otherwise affected; and if you keep on with these men that I have heard throughout the debate today, then there are people out there who are at risk of harm. This motion for a resolution, and this is what is so remarkable, consists of one line: the Danish Parliament instructs the government to introduce border controls on entry from Sweden to Denmark. The government has already introduced this. There is no mention of how it should be carried out, how long it should last, whether it should be a sample check, whether it should be mobile or fixed, or with booms or anything else. So all the arguments that have been put forward today to vote against this proposal are pseudo-arguments. I simply miss a good and valid argument for voting against this resolution, which is so simple that even a social democratic government has actually already introduced it. I would like us to go further, that it was not just samples and that it was done with open eyes to the society that the Left, no, the Social Democracy, no, Sweden has developed into. I am not going to look down at the Minister, because then I am not thinking wrong thoughts like that, but wrong thoughts, yes, then I am thinking exactly of the Left. But one valid argument for voting against is missing. Of course, New Citizens support the introduction of controls on entry from Sweden, as already exists, and we would like it to be done permanently and that more intelligent, wiser controls should be introduced and more resources set aside. Those were the words from me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143026	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jens Rohde, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143034	Thank you. I can follow Mrs Pernille Vermund well along the way when she says that there is no valid argument, at least not from those who sit between two chairs. But in the Radical Left we just do not believe that this is the right way to use resources, and that must, after all, be a valid argument. After all, Mrs Krarup will come up here in a moment and talk about the fact that it is not a zero-sum game. But I do not see New Citizens being the party that wants to increase public spending, which is why this is going to be a zero-sum game, and then we will have to discuss how we use the police's resources best. Is it standing still on the road, or is it having mobile devices that can target crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143124	As regards sitting between two chairs, I think the debate today has shown that the Radical Left has done so. Jens Rohde told me half an hour ago that Mr. Jens Rohde didn't know anyone who was against border controls. Behind Mr. Jens Rohde sits a rapporteur who speaks differently, so if we are in this matter of sitting between two chairs, perhaps it is something that needs to be taken back inside the Radical Left before it is spread out in the Assembly. We have said quite openly and frankly that we would rather have seen foreign policy solved from scratch than to inflict the damage that now means spending more resources on the police and on the judiciary. However, recognising that we are in the situation we are doing, we simply cannot defend that we are not looking after Denmark, that we are not using the resources needed both to protect our borders and to protect our people, and that is why we will also be helping to allocate more resources to the police and to the courts when it comes to negotiating this spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143228	Sir. Jens Rohde for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143230	Mrs Pernille Vermund is, of course, too talented to dribble away with such a House of Commons tricks, where one tries to have a straw-man discussion. Mrs. Pernille Vermund knows that Mr. Kristian Hegaard and I and the radical group are fully in agreement on what we think is gifted border control, and that is why we say that there has never ever been a time when there has been no border control. It is a question of how to set up border controls and how to use police resources, and on that no wedge can be put in between Mr. Kristian Hegaard and me, and Mrs Pernille Vermund knows this very well. But nice try.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143304	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143306	If that is the position of the Radical Left, that is to say that we already have border controls, and that is a good thing, then one should also be able to vote in favour of the following sentence, which is the motion for a resolution: the Danish Parliament requires the government to introduce border controls on entry from Sweden to Denmark. Or?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143330	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions for Mrs Pernille Vermund. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143340	Thank you for the floor. The Nordic passport union was created in 1954, which means that it is over 30 years older than the Schengen Agreement, which dates back to 1985. I have always liked this Nordic passport union, especially because of its symbolic political content. It showed that the Nordic Region was something special, that the citizens of the other Nordic countries did not have to be compared with strangers, because they were such a kind of brothers and sisters, where you did not have to lock the front door, because we were free to go in and out with each other. It was nice to think about. But in recent years reality has not been able to live up to the beautiful ideas behind the Nordic Passport Union. For a long time Sweden has been pursuing a very irresponsible immigration and migration policy, and among the many evils that that policy has brought with it is an escalation of gang violence, with which we need to be outside Europe in order to find something relevant to compare it. You can really talk about crimes with a different ethical background. In the Liberal Alliance we have a very pragmatic relationship with border controls. If, figuratively speaking, there is money to have a Nordic passport union, we think it is nice to have it, but if there are security indications that border controls are the right thing, we also support it. And right now there are very good indications that border controls are the right thing to have, both against Germany and against Sweden, and that is why we support it. What we are hoping for is, of course, that one day in the future the European Union will have so much control over its external borders and that both the European Union and Sweden will have such effective enforcement of law and order that the visions of the Nordic passport union can come true again. That is why we support both the temporary border controls against Sweden that we now have, and we support keeping the vision of the Nordic passport union alive. Therefore, we cannot support a resolution which, in principle, makes it impossible to return to the good old days when people could travel freely between the Nordic countries. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143630	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Jens Rohde, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143635	I think it is too easy to say that it is hoped that one day there will be so much of one thing or another so that we can return to the beautiful vision. How much is much and when is enough before the Liberal Alliance thinks that one can return to the beautiful vision? It's an elastic band in meter size, as sir. Henrik Dahl is trying to sell here from Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143707	So today is the 5th anniversary of the attack on Charlie Hebdo, and since then the threat level of terrorism has been at the second highest level. As long as the threat level is so high, it is a good idea to keep an extra eye on the borders. The second point is that, in relation to Sweden, the crime in Malmö, which is just over the Øresund, has come completely out of control, so it is no joke when I say that you have to go outside Europe to find a relevant benchmark. That is why, as long as that is the case, we are in favour of guarding the border, as is done today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143750	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143752	But then the second one has a very, very, very long prospect, we will have to admit, because I do not see how things are being changed or rewrited as they are, and we have 56 000 km of external border in the European Union, so it is also up to us to build all this up, especially since Frontex was for too many years a voluntary thing where you could choose how much you would contribute. That is why the logical question is why you do not take the consequences of it and support the proposals of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143834	After all, patience is a virtue and we are very patient in the Liberal Alliance, also in order to put the EU's external borders in order. It would be nice if the Nordic passport union could be revived at some point, so we will not turn off hope for it, and that is why we end up where we end up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143853	The next question is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143857	I pressed in a little late because I had to think about that speech. I am simply not sure that I understood it at first. I thought: Yes, there is one who finally supports our proposal. But it was not there anyway because you have a dream that the Nordic Passport Union should be able to function completely smoothly again. But why wouldn't it? In other words, if paradisaic conditions occur in 50-100 years, then we are just introducing it again. I think it is a very, very strange argument that you say that you can see that there is a security threat and that temporary border controls are necessary, but that, for God's sake, it should not be more than one-off. Or how is that supposed to be? Can I have sir? Henrik Dahl to agree that it should be extended from the point of view of the moment to something temporary as long as it does not become permanent? Is that it, or what's it like?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107143955	Well, it is not certain that in the year 2054 politicians will be as visionary as those in 1954, so it is not certain that we can have a Nordic passport union again. That's why we want to keep it alive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144005	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144007	Okay, if that's what it is, I think it's a very, very cynical argument. So, you like the Nordic Passport Union more than you like the Danes whose security is threatened because terrorists, exiled illegal immigrants and criminals can travel freely across the border and commit crimes in Denmark. I do not think that is a pleasant point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144032	That is almost as cynical as Mrs Krarup's remark, because that is not what I said. We fully support the current regime, both at the German and Swedish borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144047	The next question is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144050	Thank you for the floor. Here we are again in such a discussion about whether it should be permanent, firm and how border controls should be introduced. A check has been introduced on entry from Sweden to Denmark. It has been introduced by the government. I know no one has overturned the government on that issue. This must mean that there is a majority in the Folketing supporting it. And yet, when the motion for a resolution now comes from DF... a proposal that has been put forward in the past and that has been overtaken by the social democracy and the government itself... you are opposed. I could easily understand it if sir... Henrik Dahl read a text here which stated: We will oblige future generations to pursue a policy and maintain a policy that we adopt today exactly as has been done with outdated conventions that we are suffering from today. But that's not what it says here. It simply says that we must do what the government has already done. Is the Liberal Alliance against the entry controls, i.e. the checks on entry from Sweden to Denmark that have already been introduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144159	It's actually not that hard. For what we are in favour of, together with the vast majority in the Folketing, is permanent temporary nature. Permanent temporaryity is, after all, such a commonly used grip in Danish politics. This is also the case in housing policy, where we have almost permanent temporary rent regulations from 1939.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144219	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144224	But sir... Henrik Dahl tells us where the motion for a resolution says anything about permanent or temporary? It doesn't say anything about it. And any bill that is passed is only valid until a new law replaces it, or? Does it say anywhere in this, how long it should last or how it should be carried out, or is it not just a proposal that goes on what the government has already introduced? Reads Mr. Henrik Dahl, this is different than I do?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144301	Border controls are being set up without imposing a sunset clause, and we are not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144314	Thank you to the rapporteur. The minister appears to have wanted to ask a question, but I assume it is a mistake? The Minister of Justice, I can come up with a question if you want. ) I have no doubt that the Minister can come up with a question for the rapporteur. I think the button has been pressed by mistake. However, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. This is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144344	With this resolution, we in the Danish People's Party want to introduce a permanent border control from Sweden. There has been some debate about what it is. But when we say border controls, it is clear that it is not temporary. Then it is not 2 days of border controls or one-off border controls, so of course it is permanent border controls from Sweden. We have seen how effective it has been to have border controls from Germany to Denmark, and at the same time we have seen that the Swedes have also wanted to secure further by introducing border controls from Denmark to Sweden. With the development of crime that we currently have in Sweden, we do not believe that it is responsible not to have border controls from Sweden to Denmark. Of course, we welcome the fact that the government has introduced one-off and temporary border controls from Sweden. This means that we share the same concern about the free passage from Sweden to Denmark. But we in the Danish People's Party believe that control should be permanent and not just punctual. But it's a sad story that it's come here. Because unlike the borderlessness of the Schengen Agreement, which is a mistake in our opinion and based on a utopia about the abolition of the nation states, the passport agreement with the Nordic countries has, to such an extent, the sympathy of the Danish People's Party. The Nordic peoples are brother people, and it is wonderful that we have been able to travel between countries without passports and without border controls. But things have changed. Sweden has pursued an irresponsible immigration policy for many years, and this has led to a high level of crime, with which we are afraid to become infected via the open border. We know that radical Islamists living in Sweden have planned terrorist attacks in Denmark against the House of JP/Politiken. This happened in 2010 when, fortunately, those concerned were apprehended before they could carry out any attacks. They have now served their sentence and walk freely in Sweden, although the former convicted have maintained their radicalised attitude and are estimated to have a return to crime. At the same time, we know that illegal refugees are staying in Sweden, which we naturally have no interest in coming to Denmark. These are just some examples of what should worry us in Denmark because of an open border from Sweden to Denmark. It is, of course, a very important task for the state to ensure the safety of its citizens. Here border controls are a simple and logical means which we should use in the current situation, and this should not be merely one-off and temporary controls, as the government recently introduced it. It must be permanent border controls. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144651	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jens Rohde, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144657	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. After all, we must let the Danish People's Party that one has been so rigorous in its attitude to border controls all the time I remember, even so rigorous that one made the trade with Lars Løkke Rasmussen in 2011 that one wanted to abolish the post-retirement pay for border controls, and peace with it. There can be so much in politics. But what I would like to see is Mrs Krarup's repeated argument that this is not a zero-sum game. It is a well-known fact that since 2001 the Danish People's Party has had a significant influence on Danish politics, and there you have had several opportunities to allocate the necessary resources to what you now want, and you have also done so several times. So if there are not enough resources for the present to implement what the Danish People's Party would like to do without it costing elsewhere, then I suppose the Danish People's Party also has a responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144807	Unfortunately, I believe that the rapporteur exaggerates the influence of the Danish People's Party when we were party to the government's support. We have done everything we could to get permanent border controls and, unfortunately, we have not been able to get it beyond what we got. With regard to a zero-sum game, it is a question of what level it is. We'd like to add more resources to the police. We want to help the police, for example. by using the defense and the Home Guard during transition periods when the police themselves do not have the resources to do so. So this is not a zero-sum game, so that you have to see police funding as a package that cannot be regulated in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144903	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144905	The influence of the Danish People's Party on changing bourgeois governments cannot be underestimated, and I know so little about it because I have been there myself. So full respect for it. You can never blame the Danish People's Party for this, but I am surprised that the Danish People's Party, with all the opportunities you have had, does not believe that the resources are sufficient today, since it is after all not very long since that the Danish People's Party had a completely decisive influence on the Danish financial laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107144941	After all, we have fought to get as much as we could, and we have had temporary border controls for Germany, and we are extremely pleased about that. We are also pleased that it has been expanded, and now it is the one against Sweden that we want. But we would have liked it to have been a more open dispute with Schengen. We could not then get the previous governments to do that, in other words, where they had simply said that this is a permanent border control with fixed installations. We clearly believe that the safety of Danish citizens is a matter for the Danish citizens. Now we are fighting to get the same thing against Sweden as we have against Germany, and then get both developed in a better direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145028	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed. That concludes item 2 on today's agenda. Before we start with paragraph 3, I should like to mention that the first item on today's agenda is the question of the promotion of Question No 3. F 28.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145047	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145131	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145155	Thank you for that, President. The Danish flexicurity system is the cornerstone of our labour market model and the opportunity for growth and stability for companies. It is extremely important for our labour market to have a flexible and secure system that benefits all of us. Every time someone wants to challenge this model, we Social Democrats are on guard, and when the previous government, together with the Danish People's Party, proposed a reduction in the daily allowance by introducing a residence requirement which would also apply to ordinary Danes, we were opposed. At the same time, we made it clear in 2018 and until the elections that we would roll it back and change the legislation as soon as we got there, and under the new government's first Finance Act, we decided to abolish the residence requirement. We are in favour of income principles for foreigners, but this affected many Danes who would like to make an extra effort and go out into the world and work for their business for a longer period and hopefully come back again wiser and with more knowledge. That is why we also saw a sea of companies, a sea of Danish employees thundering against this proposal. Even the employees and employers at home were in complete agreement, and we do not always see this in this area, that this law was very damaging to our labour market model, to Danish employees and, above all, to companies. Because with this it would be very difficult to get talents to Denmark as well as to get some of our own to go abroad to become more skilled and come home again skilled and with new ideas, as I said before. When the law was discussed in 2018, I asked a number of questions about the then Minister for Employment, Troels Lund Poulsen, at among others. I was worried that this law would be too difficult to administer for the cashiers. The Minister couldn't answer that, but a study from Danish A-boxes in 2019 showed that there are huge problems with this. When we look at the EU countries, there were many who replied rather late and others where the documentation could not be used at all because of errors in the forms. This was, of course, to the great detriment of the individual who had met the requirements of the daily allowance, but who then had to document it, and it is difficult. When the EU countries had these problems, you can probably figure out what would happen in third countries. At the same time, we were very concerned that this would hit people on maternity leave and those who became ill, and what about all Danes in England when brexit became a reality? In other words, there were a great many concerns we raised at the time. As we said at the time, it was a law that was rushed through without much time being spent on seeing the consequences it could give for ordinary Danish employees and companies. That is why I am extremely pleased that we are standing here in the Folketing today by a majority, which has decided to abolish the residence requirement and thus remove the unreasonable requirement which is contributing to the deterioration of some of the most important things we have, namely a proper and secure benefit system. I would like to thank the parties in the red bloc for a good agreement to the Finance Act and for including this in the agreement and, as you can hear, the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145516	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a few brief remarks first, Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145524	Thank you. It is true that when we had the debate in December 2018, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, out telling us to roll back. And then the opinion was that one would sit down with the social partners and see if one could get residence requirements and income principles in place, because one would like to, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen quoted as saying. Another point in another article is the same rapporteur quoted as saying: "So we stick to the principle of income and the residence requirement...·. Should I just understand that the Social Democratic Party is still of the opinion that there should be a principle of income when it comes to unemployment benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145630	Well, you can't both say that you want to roll back and hold on to it. You can't say that. So it's weird what it says, and I can't imagine saying it like that. What I've certainly said is that we're going to roll it back because we don't think this is the right way, and that if we could see it in other ways, we should. I'm also just getting smarter looking at how hard it is to manage in the A-boxes. I have also looked at the consultation answers now from various social partners, and I can see from them that they in no way believe that it should be interesting to dive into and change because the benefit system we had before the residence requirement was quite right for them. So I have to say that I see no reason to change it beyond what we have said, i.e. roll it back. It is clear that if it causes other problems, we must look at it, but so far the biggest problem is that we have a residence requirement. That is why, as I said at the time, as we said before the elections, and as I stood here on the floor and said in the debate on questions, we are doing first, second and third readings, namely that we would, of course, remove it when we came to it. And we've done that as one of the first things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145731	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145732	I fully agree that the Social Democratic Party does not like what to say, the administrative element of this. Therefore, when we read it to the full, the quote was that we should stick to the principle of income, to the residence requirement, so that it would not be difficult and so that it could be administered. That is what the rapporteur said. So I just have to understand: has the rapporteur regretted? Is it no longer a socialist policy to support an income principle as far as unemployment benefits are concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145810	What we mean is that this residence requirement is not right, and that is why it must be abolished and that is what we are doing today. But we are still in favour of income principles in relation to foreigners; we are still in favour of strict foreign policy. But we also have to say that we are not going in and doing things that hurt more than it benefits. It was quite clear to everyone, including the social partners, that this residence requirement is something I think Mr. Hans Andersen remembers that it would hurt more than it did. It was only a proposal that we should have removed lightning quickly and that is what we have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145839	The next question is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107145842	Thank you for that, President. I think it seems to me that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen speaks a little too loudly in this situation, because what we are talking about is the residence requirement we have in order to obtain unemployment benefit. This applies to people who come to Denmark and work and do not have 5 years or 6 years or 7 years out of the last 12 years in Denmark, and to people who leave the country and work outside Denmark. If you cannot meet the requirement, you cannot be entitled to benefit. However, those who go out and work for their Danish companies abroad do not do so because they are still covered by the Danish benefit rules. The law states that if you were posted as a representative of a public authority, employed by a Danish public interest, or have resided abroad as an employee of a Danish company, you are not covered by that law; then it is the Danish unemployment benefit legislation that applies. But Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen said that they were also subject to restrictions and would be affected, but they do not. It is only those who come from third countries, or those who, on their own, go out looking for a job in some country and are away longer in this case, it is more than 5 years that you have to be away from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150010	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150012	I was very aware of exactly this when I wrote the speech, and that, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted thinks I said, I did not say at all, because I did not use the word Danish companies. I said: Those who travel abroad and come back to Danish companies are smarter and with more knowledge, because they have been working for foreign companies and have come out and gained some other experience and have become more knowledgeable about some things that Danish companies can use. I never said that they were sent out by Danish companies, because I know exactly the change that was made at the time because you had a problem with it. I mean, sir. Bent Bøgsted must be aware that this affects many Danes. That is why a great many foreign dancers wrote to all of us then that they had problems because they had expected them to get out, work, pay for benefits and come home and get unemployment benefits. But that's where they were cheated, because you couldn't. It also hits many of them over in England, now that it happens with brexit. They can't come home, but we can't get an answer to that either. It may also affect them on maternity leave. And it may also affect some on sickness benefits. There's just a lot of ifs in this that the previous government and the Danish People's Party can't respond to... still can't answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150118	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150119	Well, I think this is nonsense, because this is also a matter of Danish welfare. Them, like Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen mentions, who travels and works for a long time in what I know, Australia, Argentina, Brazil or the United States, has also not paid taxes to Denmark and has not helped pay for the Danish welfare. And with regard to those who are in England in connection with the brexite agreement, it has always been the case that we have all been ready to find a solution for them. That's why it's nonsense to start saying it hits all of them. I guess it's 600 worldwide that it could be about. And then Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen: Those who come home want Danish companies to have. But then they don't have to be on cash benefits either. Then they have a job when they come home, if the Danish companies want them. Well, I think sir... Leif Lahn Jensen speaks a little too full in relation to what this is about. It is also to protect the Danish welfare area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150208	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150210	But I think it's Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, who doesn't get much of what this is about. Of course, if you're out abroad and you don't pay taxes, you come home to a fraction pension. Then you don't get exactly what you're supposed to have. But when you pay the daily allowance, you probably expect to receive a daily allowance. Mr. Bent Bøgsted, that, as the Danish People's Party has done several times, by 2010, as a thief at night, you can change the daily allowance so that you cannot get the daily allowance you expect? That's what you mean. I just don't think it's okay that you pay for some cash benefits and then vupti because a change of law is being made, you can't get them. Whether you're at home or abroad, it's not okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150243	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions for Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. And the next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150257	Thank you. About a year ago, the former VLAK government and the Danish People's Party adopted the residence requirement for entitlement to daily allowances, which the government will abolish with today's bill. And that means, for example, that... non-western immigrants can again have access to unemployment benefit as early as 1 year in Denmark. The residence requirement restricts the possibility that foreigners can travel to Denmark and obtain full rights to our relatively good services largely without first contributing to Danish society. This gives the government once again the opportunity to do so, and we have to note, unfortunately, that the government continues in the path where it makes it more attractive to come to Denmark and less attractive to be in work. That is a pity and, as you know, the Left does not want to support this direction. I understand that the government is trying to produce the residence requirement as if it were primarily for Danish citizens. For example, the Minister for Employment has expressed this, but it is not true, on the contrary. The fact is that the vast majority of those who are subject to the residence requirement are immigrants; it is shown in black and white by the Ministry of Employment's own figures. So when the government claims that the residence requirement has not worked, it is factually wrong. I agree that the residence requirement also has consequences for a group of Danish citizens, but overall I think we can be absolutely familiar with the requirement. There is enough rubber band in the rules for there to be plenty of opportunity to travel out into the world for a number of years and turn smarter back. And not least, the Left believes that it is a healthy principle that you should have a connection with Danish society and have contributed to the Treasury before you have access to it. That is why the Left cannot support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150455	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150500	I would just like to ask whether this is correct and whether the rapporteur can confirm that, when they were in government, the Left deteriorated the benefit system and that this government has once again improved it after a deterioration by a Left Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150515	No, I can't confirm that. I think we made an agreement with the Danish People's Party, where we improved the daily allowance system, and I think we added 300 million. kr. to improve the flexibility of the benefit system. I think that is certainly an improvement. So, overall, over the period of the previous government, we have improved the flexibility of the benefit system. And I also find that there is still very good support for our unemployment benefit system in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150549	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150550	Agreed we made a deal together. But what we improved was the poor unemployment benefit system that was created under the former bourgeois government in 2010 in collaboration with the Danish People's Party. But do we not agree that this is a deterioration in the benefit system for ordinary Danish employees who choose to go abroad for a foreign company? Do we not agree that this is a deterioration in the benefit system that otherwise ensures that they can come home and get unemployment benefit again? The Minister, or rather the rapporteur, for a minister, has not yet admitted this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150624	I think I mentioned this in my speech: it also has consequences for a group of Danish citizens. But what is the essence of this is that, like what the rapporteur also thought before the elections, we are in favour of profit principles, including in terms of cash benefits. You must have been here in Denmark and stayed here for a while before you are entitled to a full daily allowance. We think this is a healthy principle. I understand, however, that the Social Democrats no longer want to make any claims as regards the daily allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150658	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107150705	Thank you for that, President. After all, the proposal here is to roll back the legislative proposal that we adopted under the previous government. Social democracy does not believe that we should tighten up the rules against foreigners. As it was, when you came as a foreigner to Denmark, you could receive cash benefits even after 1 year. You'd have earned the right to cash benefits. And I know there's an "A" box that says: let's just bring them in, because then we'll have more members. But it did, of course, help attract foreigners who could speculate on unemployment benefits. And the vast majority of those affected by this bill were foreigners from third countries. This was not the case with those who are in the European Union. The majority of those affected were from third countries. Then it is true that there were some Danes between, and if there was a way to make a difference, there was no problem for the Danish People's Party in saying that Danish citizens were not covered by these rules. But with this you return to being able to come from third countries to Denmark, and after 1 year you have earned the right to benefit, and then you can get unemployment benefit. Of course you cannot take them back to the Philippines or wherever it is, but it is a wrong way to go, and it is a erosion of the Danish welfare system. Because when you look at them there, like Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen mentions that he has travelled abroad to improve his skills and it is also very good to be able to improve his skills so they can be abroad for 5 years before they are affected by the rules here. During the transitional period it is even longer that you can be, 5 out of the last 12 years, and you should only have been in Denmark for 6 years and in the final scheme 7 years out of the last 12 years. It will make most people not get hit by it. Then I know that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen also mentions something with some companies, and he was kind enough to say that those who came back to Denmark were the ones the companies wanted, and then they will not go unemployed either, because then they will be working immediately. But they haven't paid taxes in Denmark in the years they've been away from Denmark either. But let it go, because if we could have made a difference, we would have liked to have done so. However, one should just bear in mind that when you look at the large number of people who could not get unemployment benefits, it was mainly citizens from third countries, and in the Danish People's Party we do not think that they should be entitled to unemployment benefits. Because if they are unemployed, they must return to their country of origin immediately. That is certainly our approach to it. There were a lot of exceptions, for all those who worked in a Danish company and were sent out were not covered by this at all. They were, after all, covered by the Danish rules on unemployment benefits, those who had hired on a Danish ship, those who represented a public authority abroad. If you went abroad to go to a university and had met the residence requirement before going abroad, you would not have been affected by the rules here either. There were many exceptions to this for the benefit of the Danish citizen who went out. Then it is true that if someone goes abroad and is away for 20-30 years and has paid to the Danish benefit system and has not paid tax in Denmark, then he has not been able to receive a daily allowance, because then he has not met the requirement of 7 out of the last 12 years. It is true that some are being hit by it. But most people who go abroad to work and return are abroad less than 5 years old and are therefore not affected by these rules. But now, by a narrow majority, the Social Democratic Party has chosen to say: we must have brought that back, because we must look after the citizens of third world countries. These are the ones we rely on most in the Social Democrat Party. That's what we can read from this bill. The vast majority of people benefit from this. I am well aware that these were mentioned in connection with Britain's withdrawal from the European Union, but I think that all parties here in the Folketing were prepared to find a solution for the Danish citizens who were in England in this regard and to find a sensible transitional arrangement to resolve that problem. That was some of the things that were unresolved. When we passed the law, we did not know what ended up with Britain, i.e. whether they left the European Union or what they did. Then the understanding was that we were ready to make a deal. So, in general, I think it is a really bad bill that has come here and the Danish People's Party votes against.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151201	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151205	I have a very, very easy question to which you can either answer yes or no. I have to ask the rapporteur: is what we are doing today, namely that we abolish the residence requirement, that we improve our benefit system, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151226	This is a deterioration because it means that there are a great many foreigners who can now take advantage of the Danish benefit system. If sir... Leif Lahn Jensen believes that it is an improvement that we give a great many citizens from third world countries the right to benefit from the Danish unemployment benefit system, so it is an improvement in the universe of Social Democracy, but in the universe of the Danish People's Party it is a deterioration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151246	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151247	Does one also think that it is a deterioration for the thousands of Danes who believe that they can get a daily allowance because they have paid for it, in case they might come home, that we are now giving them this opportunity? They may come home to work, but they expect to be able to come home and get unemployment benefit because they have paid for the benefit system. What I hear is that the Danish People's Party only looks at it in relation to foreigners, but not in relation to the thousands of Danes who have problems with this. It is not seen from the employers' point of view, and so is all the companies who actually thought it was a deterioration when the Danish People's Party and the Left joined forces to introduce the residence requirement. Is Mr. Bent Bøgsted doesn't agree at all with me and the rest of the labour market and people around the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151329	But if it is a question of employers having cheap labour, which can then enter the Danish benefit system, then we do not agree. If it is a question of Danish companies saying that they cannot send their employees out, then I would say that they can. If it is a question of social democracy wanting to attract labour from third world countries and get them into the Danish unemployment benefit system, then it is not very good. That is why it is a deterioration to attract them. As for these thousands of Danes who go out and work, it's not like that. After all, it is not thousands of Danish citizens who are affected by this. According to the latest figures, it is about 600 that can be hit by it. That is why it would be more reasonable for Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen looked at how to get them to work as soon as they get home. That's the way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151418	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151428	Thank you, President. Security and flexibility are the prerequisites for our labour market, and the residence requirement for daily allowances has never been a very good solution to anything for any party at all. The rule has meant that you must have stayed in Denmark or another EU country for a number of years out of the last 12 years, if you want to have access to unemployment benefits in Denmark, and this shows a not very big global view. Danish companies benefit from being able to employ workers, including Danes, who have been several years abroad and acquired experience and skills and gained important international experience and networks. Danes who have worked and resided abroad are placed at a disadvantage with the residence requirement for daily subsistence allowances. The same goes for foreign colleagues who have come to Denmark in recent years, and this happens while paying the same to the benefit system and otherwise fulfilling the same conditions as other cashiers. That is why it has also been an important radical priority to abolish the residence requirement for daily allowances, and it is very gratifying to be here today for the first reading of the draft law and also for us, together with a number of other parties, to be involved in a new direction, including in this area. Radical Left, as you can hear, is voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151555	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151559	After all, we saw in the election campaign how the Radical Left has really found a gold group in promising gold and green forests to foreigners... the king of the ghetto is probably more like Mr. Morten Østergaard. That is why I would just like to ask and ask the radical rapporteur to confirm that 80%. of the people who might benefit from this proposal are people who are not citizens of Denmark. These are foreigners, and there are, of course, very many from what we call third countries. And I am sure that the rapporteur will then be able to confirm this and that it will bring great joy out in the radical catchment area. So it is just to get in place that this is only one fifth of what benefits Danish workers and 80% that benefits foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151646	The abolition of this residence requirement benefits a great many parties. This benefits the Danes who go abroad and work, improve their skills, take back important international experience and networks. It benefits the foreign colleagues who come to Denmark and work here. It benefits Danish industry, Danish employers, that they have access to international labour, including Danish labour force, which has become internationally skilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151718	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151719	I don't even understand why you talk so much out of it. This is a good day for the Radical Left; it is a bad day for Denmark, but the two things are typically connected. I can only refer to the answer given by the Minister to Question No. 109, in which the Minister makes it very clear that about a fifth of those who benefit from this proposal are Danish citizens, so four fifths are foreigners. I just think that the Radical Left should take ownership of this. It's a really good day if you're a foreigner and you want free access to the public services that Danes through, I don't know how many years have gone by and saved up. So congratulations to the Radical Left. There's no need to go with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151759	Thank you for your congratulations. If I'm standing here looking a little upset, that's definitely not the point. This is so thank you for the congratulations and a huge smile from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151822	There is one more brief comment, and that is from Mr Beazley. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151826	Thank you. The rapporteur said that Danish companies would like people to go out and improve their skills so that they can get skilled employees back home. But is it not true that the Danish companies who say so would like to have some skilled employees? When they get home, they'll hire them. Well, then they don't have to be on cash benefits. Then they get employment in a Danish company, and then they don't get hit at all by this bill, even the earlier one. 'Cause they're gonna get a job. This means that the Danish companies say that it is desirable to get the employees back home so that they can work in Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151900	It is clear that there are no guarantees that you can get a job on the day you return to Denmark after having had a stay abroad. There are no guarantees of that. So that's the way things are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151915	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151917	I think the rapporteur is talking a little bit about it, because it is said that it is after all coveted employees who come home. Thus, if Danish companies send out their own employees, they are not subject to any bill. But there are Danes who go out into the world to improve their skills. The vast majority of people who go out into the world to improve their skills have already started searching for a job in Denmark when they return home. Because if they have the qualifications that the Danish companies demand, it should also be easy to get a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107151951	There is absolutely no one who can guard against unemployment, not even temporary unemployment, and certainly not if you come from abroad and just come home to Denmark. After all, this is about being able to receive a daily allowance, which is a system that has been paid up on an equal footing with all other cashiers. So there is a great deal of reason in that, as a Dane who has stayed abroad, you are also entitled to unemployment benefit at home in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152018	The next question is Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152022	Thank you. We very much agree that Denmark must be an attractive country to work in, not least in order to attract foreign labour. However, the Radical Left, together with the Conservative People's Party, could not help to consider whether to attract foreign talent, for example. could do so by reducing taxes and making them more competitive and by extending the green card system? What does the Radical Left think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152057	Thank you. We're gonna get around this a little bit. There are many very good ways for companies to attract skilled foreign labour. After all, we have had some of this through the Financial Law Agreement, where it will be easier for companies to obtain professional labour from countries outside the EU's borders. So there are a lot of measures that can be taken. This bill is important because there are some members of the cashiers who are paying into an allowance system but who do not benefit from it, and it is highly unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152136	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152137	So the Radical Left believes that we should open the treasury wide open to the labour force of third countries. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152148	No, that's not correct. The correct thing is that when they are in Denmark and do not have a job, people who pay for the Danish benefit system can also benefit from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152203	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152211	Again today we feel the winds with more fairness from the new majority in the Folketing. A secure benefit system and efficient cash-flows are the cornerstones of both the labour market and the welfare society. It is a good day today when we are removing a law that discriminates against people who have been abroad. We are removing purely symbolic and signal policy from Mrs Inger Løjberg and Mr. The Martin Henriksen regime. With a snap, the right wing stole the security insurance and made membership of the A-Cash worthless. These people paid for insurance, but got a long nose. I visited Netto's large warehouse at Aarhus a little while ago. It is a workplace where you have approx. 140 persons employed, 10 of whom are refugees. Your shop steward, Michael Jørgensen, is strongly opposed to this law on so-called residence requirements and would like it abolished as soon as possible. He met me with the question: I simply do not see what you are waiting for. And today I have the answer to him: we are acting now. In the workplace I spoke among other things. with Renas Haif and Mohammad Alayoubi. For the last three years, they've been working full-time and paid a quota to the cashier. The law retroactively rendered their membership worthless. The quota money was lost. They did everything right, but they got cheated. Learn Danish, find a job, contribute to society, integrate yourself, join the a-box and join the union. These people did everything right, and as a reward, they got a kick in the back. As the Vice-President of 3F in Aarhus, Knud Rasmussen, said exactly to me: this is purely a convict. The right wing hit the unemployment benefit system with hopeless, unfair and meaningless symbolic policy. It is simply stupid, and the law is also completely impossible to administer. With the law, many people will opt out of the a-box. We need the opposite, namely that more people work and insure themselves. It strengthens individuals, families, businesses, the labour market and society. It's a good day today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152506	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152509	One senses how the socialists here see the international revolution really spreading across the continent, and then one must sit up here in the cold north as an anxious and trembling taxpayer and just accept that I do not know how many millions of tax dollars are to be thrown into the European continent with Mr. Karsten Hønges always clinging hands. It is quite reasonable that, as a socialist, when you have won a majority, you should also use power. Whether you can call it fair or not is probably another question. I think, sir. Karsten Hønge, in his rapporteur's speech, used the expression that we now had more fairness. I would just like to ask: to whom? Is it to those who pay their taxes with the assurance that the children can go to school, that the sick person can go to the hospital and the unemployed person can get his daily allowance? Is that where the faire is? Or is it to those people who no longer need to have paid significantly to the Danish Treasury in order to get the trunk into it that fairness lies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152614	I simply find it difficult to recognize the picture that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is painting here. As I told you, I spoke exactly with these two people who have worked full-time for three years, have contributed to the welfare society, have learned Danish, have taken care of their work every day, have shown up at 8:00. 7 in the morning and has worked with unskilled jobs, hard physical work. For three years they have not made any use of the box, but they have paid it because they think that it should be done when integrating into Denmark. So I think it is fair to them that they are treated like everyone else who is doing their job and paying their dues, namely that they have a security insurance, because that is what it is for them; for they have not actually needed it, but they have a security for themselves, for the family. They strengthen the business they are in and they strengthen the labour market and society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152701	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152703	Well, I'm sure Abdud and Wahil, and what all Mr. Karsten Hønge's other friends in Danish society had to be called, feel that this is a really good day for them. There is no doubt about that. What I am aiming for is what is this fairness? So, today there is a rule, until this bill might be passed, which says that you should have been in Denmark and paid for 7 years. Now Mr. Karsten Hønge saw that it must be after three years that his friends have earned the court, or is it 1 year that is in the bill? But what is more fair, that is, that we Danes, who have been born and raised here and who, in generation after generation, have fought to build up the welfare society that we now have, are now going to pay for much more foreigners who come after a short stay to have access to the boxes? Which is fair, sir. Karsten Hønge?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152747	The fair thing is that we treat people equally if they meet the demands we make of them. We place legitimate expectations on people who come to Denmark that you work, that you integrate, that you also contribute through tax and through fund membership to the welfare society we have, and Renas Haif and Mohammad Alayoubi did so; they have done so for 3 years, and they have not pulled a penny out of the a-box, but they have contributed. Why should one reward it with a kick in the butt by making their membership of the bank worthless and letting their quota money be lost? What we are doing is fairness to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152823	The next question is Mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152826	Thank you. I just have one specific question. When the rapporteur mentions that many people have resigned because of this residence requirement, and it is true that we discussed it during the legal proceedings back in 2018 I would just like to ask, since the parties behind the Finance Act have actually written into the legislation that those who have resigned must be able to get back into the benefit system, how many we are talking about, because I find it difficult to find a figure in the bill. How many have volunteered to date because of the residence requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152915	That's why I didn't mention it either. I stand here with my speech in which I said: with the law, for a great many of the people I have talked to have waited for what would happen to the law. Many have, of course, heard the signals that one would probably make the law that it might even be removed, which is what we are doing now, and therefore has maintained their membership. The people I spoke to at Netto's warehouse at Aarhus were in the same dilemma: Should we resign or should we maintain our membership? That is why, for good reasons, we do not have any figures now, but there is no doubt that that is what it would lead to if we kept the law. And the fact that it is being tightened up until 2021 by up to 7 years out of 12 years will mean that there will be more and more people who will resign. But we don't have the number of it yet, as well as we don't have a number of how much money you might have saved by this law, which also seems to be zero.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152957	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107152959	This means that the parties behind the Finance Act have been sitting and agreeing that they want to help those who, yes, may have resigned because of the residence requirement, but that they do not know how many it is. So the whole story that there were thousands who would resign because of the residence requirement has nothing on it. For now the rapporteur cannot answer how many people have resigned, nor can he answer why there is no concrete figure in the draft law. So is this not merely an expression of a fear that has been voiced, which we must, in fact, observe has not been present?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153041	That is a completely justified fear. In other words, if you see no reason to join because you simply cannot get anything out of the security insurance that you pay for, you would hardly sign up. Well, that's pretty logical. Well, I know that Mr. Knox... Hans Andersen also strongly believes in financial incentives. And why, if you can see that it is going to be 7 years before you might be covered by it, should you join an unemployment fund? Then you would wait until a year before, so that you could live up to the current rules, namely 1 year's work and 1 year's membership. So it is no wonder that the figures are not yet there, but it is equally obvious that they will come. And the reason we haven't seen the big slip is clearly that there has been uncertainty as to whether the law would survive. And neither did it. We're in the process of removing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153120	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153126	Thank you. The Enhedslisten can support this proposal, and so we will also take part in the credit that it has become a reality. For us, the existing legislation was a strong expression of hoofsa legislation, which did not solve the alleged purpose and which brought with it many new problems, including a great injustice and discrimination against people who in all possible ways fulfilled the conditions of unemployment insurance, except one: that they had remained outside the country's borders for a period of time. There have been many grotesque examples of people who have come into contact with the previous legislation, and it should also be noted that the residence requirement has provided considerable extra work in the cashiers with the collection of documentation and guidance of members, which has not been easy. We also welcome the fact that a withdrawal scheme is being put in place for those who inadvertently lost the right to cash benefits and therefore resigned from the cash register. They will have the opportunity to re-enter, and that is good and fair. If there were to be some wormwood in the cup, this is due to the failure to abolish the residence requirement per year. 1 January 2020. This right now means an extraordinary bureaucracy and a lack of guidance in the cashiers, where you first have to explain to Members that in January the residence requirement will rise to six years, and then it will lapse completely per year. February 1. But we must then live with that in joy at the fact that the system has succeeded in abolishing it. As I said, the Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153300	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and so we go further in the rapporteur's line. It is now the Conservative People's Party and the rapporteur is Mrs Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153319	In the Conservative People's Party we regard it as common sense. It is common sense that one must have contributed and been closely associated with Denmark before one can enjoy and make use of the benefits that we as a society have. That is why we introduced a rule that at least 7 of the last 12 years must have been spent in Denmark, Greenland, the Faroe Islands, the EU or Switzerland in order to be entitled to benefit. The government now wants to abolish the residence requirement for entitlement to benefit so that a high transfer income can be obtained more quickly as a foreigner. Unfortunately, it is now becoming more attractive for unemployed foreigners to go to Denmark, and it is also becoming more attractive for foreigners who are here today not to take a job. At least that's what we're afraid of. The Conservative People's Party wants fewer unemployed foreigners to come to Denmark. We want everyone to contribute to the society we have. Denmark should not be a new paradise for foreigners who do not want to work. In Denmark you have to speak Danish, take responsibility and take a job. It is a sensible foreign policy. Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the Social Democratic Party promised in the election campaign to maintain the strict immigration policy, but now it is easier for unemployed foreigners to obtain unemployment benefits. This is not the way to pursue a strict foreign policy. We fully understand if there are some Socialist voters who have had a desire for a strict immigration policy that is disappointed. The Conservative People's Party regards this bill as a step backwards. We want due care in foreign policy and we cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153456	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153502	I have no doubt about that, and I fully understand that there are some members of the Conservative People's Party out there who have a company and who are deeply disappointed that the Conservatives in this way are helping to reduce the daily allowances for their people when they go out. I have no doubt that they cannot understand that the Conservative People's Party is doing just that. Then I just have to ask: is it common sense that in this case, as an ordinary Dane in good faith, you are insuring yourself in the benefit system, that you go out in good faith and pay for insurance all these years, and then when you come home, you lose that right because there are some politicians at home who say that there is nothing to do about it, because we have removed it? Is that common sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153547	Yeah, that's common sense. It is true that there are Danes who work abroad for longer periods and thus also lose the right to benefit. But here the principle of having a firm link with the labour market in order to receive public services must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153605	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153607	So this means that we have a member of the Conservative People's Party who is usually very company friendly, who says that they do not agree at all with the Danish Employers' Association, that they do not agree at all with any of the companies who believe that this is devastating for our social model, for the flexicurity model and for the benefit system. Here the Danish People's Party and the Danish Employers' Association and others are completely opposed to each other; there is no agreement. That's how I get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153635	I think that is a very great exaggeration, because that is not the case. This has been said several times in the Chamber today by the Danish People's Party and the Left. Very few Danish people work abroad, it is going to hit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153651	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I do not see the rapporteur for the alternative, so that is why we move on to the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, who is present in the Chamber, and that is Mr Beazley. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153714	Thank you for the floor. I am here as an alternate for our rapporteur, Lars Boje Mathiesen, who unfortunately had no opportunity to come today. I will briefly outline the immediate position of the new citizens, and that is that we are very critical of this proposal and we will be asking a number of questions in connection with the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153742	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I hear that Enhedslisten has a greeting from the Alternative saying that they support the bill. The next rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153804	Thank you for the floor. The many greetings almost remind us of the late radio program Giro 413 - so we were also allowed to think about it. Bill L 85 is, after all, a legislative proposal which relaxes foreign policy. This means that it will be more attractive for foreigners to buy a ticket to support Danish taxpayers than it is today. We in the Liberal Alliance are in favour of a strict immigration policy, and that is why we are pleased that, over the last five years, the Social Democrats have joined the circle of parties which support that policy. But with Bill L 85, you can see that there are limits... the trees don't grow into the sky. Social democracy has been pressured by its support parties and by the trade union movement, and this kind of double pressure cannot stand, and therefore foreign policy is now being relaxed. We do not support a relaxation of foreign policy, nor do we support the extension of the right to put the straw in the treasury, which is why we do not support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153918	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153922	I simply have to respond to that. You make it sound as if the Social Democratic Party has been pressed by all sorts of trade union movement and everything else. I do not know whether the rapporteur was in the Chamber when we had it under the bourgeois government. But can the rapporteur confirm that, at the various readings, both at the third reading, at the debate on questions and elsewhere, I was actually actually saying that we would roll this back when we came to power? That's exactly what we said back then. To stand there and say that afterwards we were pushed into something is perhaps just gross enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107153954	I didn't say anything about how far this pressure goes back in time. So the rapporteur may well have been under pressure at the time when he made the statements I did not hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154005	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen? No. The next person to speak on behalf of the rapporteur is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154006	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he is aware that the benefit system is currently making profits and is therefore a blow to the Treasury and not a straw in the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154024	There are all sorts of strange calculations in circulation. I don't have much scam on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154034	There are no further comments to the rapporteur. It has now become the Minister for Employment's turn to take the floor. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154048	Thank you for the floor and thank you for a lively debate so far. I would like to start by thanking you for the treatment that the draft law has received today. The bill abolishes the residence requirement for entitlement to unemployment benefit and cannot go too fast. That is why we are calling for the bill to come into force as early as 1 February, only two months after we concluded the agreement. Let me say straight away that the bill does not change the government's policy on foreigners. We are in favour of strict immigration policy, but we say stop when initiatives become too symbolic and harm more than they benefit. The residence requirement is neither good for Danish employees nor for safety in the labour market. Many Danish employees have been affected. Danes go abroad to work for a few years. This weakens the support for the benefit system, which is one of the pillars of the Danish flexicurity model and also a major reason why we have a flexible and secure labour market. I am also sensitive to the fact that both workers and employers support the abolition of the residence requirement. Now it is also not the case that, without the residence requirement, you can just come to Denmark and receive the daily allowance from the first day. There are already rules which ensure that, as a starting point, you have to have some connection with the Danish labour market in order to be able to obtain any benefit at all. There are, for example: a requirement that you must have been a member of an unemployment insurance fund for at least one year and that you must meet an income or employment requirement which it will take at least one year to meet. This means that third-country nationals who have not previously been in Denmark can, as a rule, only receive daily allowances when they have been a member of a Danish unemployment fund for at least one year at the same time as a certain amount of employment. If anyone believes that the residence requirement alone deprives non-western immigrants of the right to unemployment benefits, they are wrong. For example, about one fifth of the 3,200 people affected are estimated to be Danish citizens, and it also affects people from, for example, Denmark. United States, Canada, non-EU and EEA countries, New Zealand, Australia, etc. I would also like to stress that we are introducing a transitional regime for those who have been able to withdraw from an unemployment insurance fund as a result of the fact that the residence requirement deprived them of the possibility of obtaining unemployment benefit for up to several years. In normal circumstances, these persons will have to start afresh by earning the right to cash benefits. It will therefore require at least 12 new months' membership of an unemployment fund, while at the same time having a certain employment before they are again entitled to benefit. We do not think that is fair in the contract circle. Therefore, we will provide for the possibility for persons to be able to restore membership from the time of withdrawal if they have been withdrawn and affected by the residence requirement during the period during which the residence requirement has been applicable. It is only fair that they should not start over with earning the right to daily allowance. The abolition of the residence requirement is a small but important strengthening of the benefit system. Again, I would like to thank you for the consideration of the draft law and I look forward to a good committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154358	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154404	It must be assumed that, when you are Minister for Employment, you are in favour of employment. And with the government we have, it can be said that if you are a foreign minister, you must be of benefit to foreigners. But the question is, is there any change in the roles in this situation? Because when you hear the Minister for Employment explaining the matter here, you would think that this was something that Danish employees and Danish industry benefited from in a broad sense, and something that really was battling in that direction. When you look at the written answers, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard has given, you clearly get a different impression. Then you almost get the impression that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard has for a while become Minister for Foreign Affairs, with 80%. of those who benefit from this proposal, you know, people from outside are... even more who can come and draw money out of the treasury, which means that we are still fewer trying to fill up. I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Peter Hummelgaard as a minister will stand up for this. This is a weakening of foreign policy for the benefit of those who want to come from outside and have access to Danish public services.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154508	To be honest, I strongly disagree with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. This has nothing to do with foreign policy, and there are many reasons for this. In the Social Democratic Party and I believe that this is the case with a large number of parties, we believe in the right and duty, and we also believe that we must do our duty before we can demand our right. In fact, that is what we are doing with the safeguards that we already have in the benefit system. We ask people who come to Denmark and who have been legally resident to train, that they learn Danish, and that they should also organise themselves and join an unemployment fund, so that they are guaranteed if they become unemployed one day. And that is what many of the citizens who have been affected by the residence requirement or will be affected by the residence requirement have done. That's why this has nothing to do with foreign policy. This is not something I can see for myself, either, because we already have requirements that make it impossible to obtain cash benefits. There is a requirement that you should have been a member of an unemployment fund for one year. There is a requirement that you should have been in employment. And that's why I don't see any connection between foreign policy and this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154609	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154611	Yes, there is no wonder that the Minister does not agree with me. What is strange here is that he does not seem to agree with himself either. So, here I am with the answer to question 109, which was given by the Minister on 16 December 2019... it is not a month ago... and there you can read on page 2 that of those who benefit from this one fifth is estimated to be Danish citizens, and the rest, which you must assume is four fifths, are people who have citizenship in a third country. Well, 80%. of those who benefit from the bill put forward by the Minister are foreigners. It is not Swedes and Norwegians, but people from third countries. How, then, can the Minister come to the conclusion that this is not a weakening of foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154655	Firstly, because the citizens have a legitimate right to work in Denmark on the basis of the very strict rules that we have laid down and which we also have in the Social Democracy and in the Government a target for and, secondly, because they have done their duties before demanding their rights. It is not a matter of being on passive support when you receive a daily allowance. Then you have a link with the labour market; you have been in work and, moreover, you have helped to pay for a collective insurance model, which is also a strengthening for all other unemployed people, including Danish citizens, including people who have been part of the insurance system for years. In this way, I see no link between immigration policy and this. I think it's an insult to say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154739	The next question is Mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154743	I just have to understand that this means that the Social Democratic Party is no longer in favour of the principle of profit. For before the elections, the Social Democratic Party was in favour of an income principle, even as far as the benefits were concerned, it was just a question of whether the model was right. I fully agree that the Social Democratic Party did not want exactly this model, but the principle of income in relation to daily allowances was something that the Social Democratic Party was in favour of before the elections. Now I understand that it is no longer a position that the Social Democratic Party has and wants to stand up for, so it has now been opened up to the fact that there is no profit principle to be applied in the area of unemployment benefits, and then we can ask ourselves whether we are also looking at the other areas, for example. cash assistance and integration benefits should see government proposals to remove income principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154837	No, in the government and in the Social Democratic Party, we are still very much in favour of profit principles for various kinds of services, but the reality is that and Mr. Hans Andersen would like to confirm that we already have an income principle and protection rules as regards daily allowances. Isn't that right? Something else that I think is part of the discussion is now Mr. Morten Messerschmidt left, but I think it is relevant both to Mr. Hans Andersen and Mr. Morten Messersstyrelse is that according to Danske A-kasses, the reality is that when it comes to third-country nationals who are in employment in Denmark, the figure has risen by 60%. from 2010 to 2018, and during the same period there are 35%. fewer third-country nationals receiving daily subsistence allowances. On the other hand, it is different when it comes to EU citizens, and fortunately in a number of parties we have a joint discussion, among others. on Regulation No 883, as to whether protection rules can be strengthened in the case of EU citizens, because here the number of people drawing daily allowances has increased by 140 per cent, and I will come back to that. What really was the problem that the parties who made the agreement at the time were trying to solve? After all, there is no indication that there has been an abuse or a problem. On the contrary, we are dealing with a number of citizens who have come here working and actually doing their duty before demanding their right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154951	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107154953	I fully agree that there are safeguards and that you have to work one year to have the right to daily allowances, but I thought that we were agreed that the principles of profit were something that the Social Democrats and the Left had about the same approach to. But there we have to say that the water divides, because now the principle of profit no longer applies as a principle for the Social Democratic Party. After the elections, the opposite is felt in relation to the daily allowance, and I fear that we will have to see a number of proposals that remove profit principles in the other areas in which we have it. I just have to say that the Left isn't in on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107155036	Thank you to the questioner. It's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107155038	Well, that fear needs sir. Hans Andersen didn't have to. In general terms, however, I think that things should always be linked and that the damage a specific proposal does should be balanced against the effect it has. And the numbers I read to Mr. Hans Andersen before from Danske A-banker, who actually shows that there has been a 35% fall in unemployment, while there has been a very large increase in the number of third-country nationals employed in Denmark. The opposite is true, as far as EU citizens are concerned. The second is, as I have to say here in conclusion, Mr President. Hans Andersen, that I think it is rather paradoxical that one experiences the Left on the one hand strongly arguing that we should open up cheap labour from third countries by lowering the threshold, but on the other hand would make it harder for organised workers who pay into the collective unemployment insurance scheme to be able to work in Denmark and draw on the insurance that is if one were to become unemployed for a shorter period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107155140	The Minister was given a little extra speaking time here at the end because the President was very large. I would like to thank the Minister for Employment and note that no one else has asked to speak. That is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200107155201	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 8 January 2020, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
