ParlaMint-DK_20200907100016	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100026	The debate is open and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100041	Thank you very much. Never be insecure about going to work. This applies, of course, every day, but especially at this time when we are all affected by the corona. Fortunately, most people are not worried about going to work and just taking extra care of themselves and others, as we have gradually learned, since this started in March. But there are people where it can be disastrous for them or their relatives to become infected and where they can become seriously ill. We must take care of these people and ensure that they can continue to feel safe. Therefore, the employer, together with the employee, must try to set up the workplace so that the infection can be avoided and, if it is not possible, another task must be found at the workplace or work from home. And if none of this is possible, as there are plenty of examples of this, you have been able to stay at home on sickness benefits since 20 May. This arrangement expired on 1 September and, as everyone knows, corona is still among us and nothing has changed for those people with a high risk of becoming ill if they become infected, even though the country is opening up after the crisis. Like many others in here, I've probably talked to a lot of concerned citizens who can actually breathe relief. We still have to look after each other. That is why the government is proposing to allow the scheme to continue until New Year's. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100216	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100227	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the previous rapporteur and perhaps clarify that it is not the government, but a broad circle of parties that is proposing that we extend this regime. Back in May, a unanimous Parliament decided that persons who were not sick should be covered by the sickness benefit system in exceptional circumstances. It was simply because we were in a very special situation with covid-19. Society was to be gradually opened up, and we therefore had to protect those people in jobs who, for health reasons, were in a particular risk group by possible covid-19 infection. What we did not know was that 110 days later there is still a need for exceptional help for this group, but we now know that. That is why we in the Left are very pleased that this bill extends this protection year to a group of people who are particularly vulnerable at this time; that is to say, we continue to give the helping hand to those who have not had the opportunity to come to work because of the risk of infection and where homework or other work has not been possible. It is meaningful, it is responsible, and it is true. The Left supports this bill and the Left is pleased that we have been able to stand behind this bill by consensus. Thank you for the floor. And then I should like to welcome the new citizens and say that they support the draft law as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100412	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100425	Thank you for that, President. After all, this bill is a bill that we can all support, because people who are at risk and who are ill and can easily be exposed to covid-19 must of course be guaranteed so that they do not bring the disease home to those who are particularly at risk. That is why it is quite fine that the scheme should be extended. I just think that there is a little salt in the wound, and it is, of course, that the scheme here should have been agreed before the previous regime expired, but I think the government is aware that it was a bit of a blunder that came there because it was only started to put this in place after the current regime had expired. But better late than never, but it should have been negotiated before the existing system expired. In those words, the Danish People's Party supports the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100523	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100530	Thank you. Corona is still among us, and although Denmark on many stretches starts to look so small again, for many people it is just as dangerous to have corona today as it was when we shut down society, and we must protect them. Therefore, it is appropriate to extend the temporary sickness benefit scheme for persons at risk compared with the covid-19 as well as their relatives. Radical Left backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100605	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100612	The Corona has hit the whole community, but it hits differently. However, insecurity has hit some people harder than others, for just as the disease affects some people more accurately. And the uncertainty and insecurity are great in families that are particularly vulnerable to corona. It is therefore a good thing that a large conciliation group agrees on a safety net for risk groups and extends the previous regime. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100644	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100650	Thank you very much. I'd like to follow up on what Mr. Hans Andersen said in his speech. I would also like to take responsibility for and part of the credit for the fact that there is even a law that we can extend. We are, of course, pleased that sickness benefits for workers at risk will be extended until 31 December. It is also good, we should remember that this also applies to people who are relatives of people who are at increased risk. However, we are concerned that this is a rather bureaucratic way of doing it. We agree that there must be medical evidence that an employee is in the risk group, but we do believe that the employer's declaration is superfluous and that this condition, as well as the case in the municipalities, may be the reason why employees have not been very keen to use the scheme. We will, of course, vote in favour of the proposal, as we are very pleased with the extension.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100749	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100759	Thank you. For the Conservative People's Party, it is quite clear that you should not, of course, work if you cannot do so in a sound health way. This is still true. That is why we are also pleased that this bill extends the right to sickness benefit for people in the risk group who fulfil the other conditions that apply. In addition, in the Conservative People's Party, we welcome the fact that employers who pay wages during their absence will also continue to be entitled to sickness benefit refunds from the first day, because we saw a number of companies at the start of this crisis, which is very well taken into account by workers in the risk group. We therefore welcome the fact that they can continue to receive sickness benefits for these employees. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100852	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100900	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance agrees with the positive words that have been said about the bill. We are also voting in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100909	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. All the rapporteurs who wanted to speak have been given the floor, and so it has become the turn of the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907100923	Thank you very much to all the rapporteurs from Parliament's parties for their comments. I am pleased that we have again agreed to hold hands under some of the most vulnerable families in the labour market. Denmark is almost fully reopened. Most Danes meet again physically at work, but there are still people in society who, for health reasons, are in a situation that makes them particularly vulnerable to corona infection. For those people it is as dangerous to have corona today as it has been all along. Of course, they should not feel pressured to go to work and risk becoming seriously ill or resigning their jobs in the difficult situation we are facing right now and in the next few months. Similarly, their loved ones should not be insecure about the risk of bringing home infection after having been at work. That is why I am pleased that we are now extending the scheme which gives employees with increased risk entitlement to sickness benefit throughout the year. Employees who are relatives of people with increased risk will also, of course, be granted an extension of the right to sickness benefit. The present system is being extended. This means that it continues to include persons who, according to the Danish Health Authority, potentially have an increased risk of a serious illness if they become infected. These are persons whose work or workplace cannot be arranged so that they can carry out the work in accordance with the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority. Of course, employers who pay wages to employees with increased risk or their relatives continue to be entitled to sickness benefit from the first day of absence. With the bill we are dealing with today, we thus ensure continued support for both the employees with increased risk and their relatives, so that they can stay home safely from work while Denmark is reopened. I think this is important and I very much welcome the very broad political support for the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101112	Thank you to the Minister for this. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101127	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101209	In addition to limiting the infection of corona, one of the most important tasks for the government has been to maintain as many jobs as possible to avoid company owners having to turn the key and that thousands of employees would become unemployed. We have made a number of aid packages together with a large majority here in the Folketing, and it has to be said that much of it has made a huge difference. If you just look at the wage compensation scheme, you will see that there are more economists and researchers who point out that it has averted thousands of layoffs. And that's good. Now it is a question of moving forward and fighting unemployment all we can. Therefore, the Danes can also increase 60 billion this autumn. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which is a very good one, and I would like to thank him for his excellent report. But there will still be some companies that will experience fewer customers and a thinner order book this autumn. That is why we must also, wisely, help them to maintain the skilled employees they have, so that they are ready when the orders start to come back in. And we must ensure that those who experience a less busy everyday life on the job will keep it and still have a decent income. That is why I am very pleased that the social partners have again taken a great deal of responsibility and made an agreement with the government on the distribution of labour • an agreement where employees can share the job; where they get a daily allowance rate which is 20%. higher than usual when they go home and their colleagues work; the companies pay most and the employees share the job and go a little down in pay to avoid getting fired and losing their colleagues. And I would say, as the chairman of FH, Lizette Risgaard, said in the press release: that is what I call solidarity. The scheme will apply until 31 December of this year and may enter a maximum of 4 months into 2021. Once again, I would like to thank the social partners for once again taking a great deal of responsibility. That's great. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101412	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101423	Thank you. This new temporary scheme is intended to provide companies that are still challenged by the Corona crisis with a tool to avoid redundancies. This is something that is clearly needed, as we are still in a serious economic crisis, and that is why the Left supports this agreement. But it would have been a good idea if the agreement had been concluded sooner, because then it could have been a welcome direct replacement for the pay compensation package, which expired on 29 August but better late than never. However, I am a little puzzled at this time when, from what is read in the government's economic report, employment is expected to fall by 68,000 people this year. After all, it is difficult to see the very same government's employment and growth priorities in its financial legislation. There are simply not many measures that contribute to increased employment and growth at this time, and that is what we need if it is to the Left. The government sits a little on its hands when it comes to restoring the thousands of jobs that we have lost during the crisis, and this means that even in 2025 there will be more unemployed than there were in 2019 if the projections in the government's economic statement are followed. In the Left, we want a responsible economic policy that contributes to growth and job creation, so that we do not share the priorities of government and social democracy. Another element of this, however, is the draft law on social security, and we are pleased that non-insured self-employed persons and others, who have been on temporary wage compensation schemes, can have access to unemployment benefit in this exceptional situation. For this purpose, the existing system is extended to allow self-employed workers in forced sectors to stop temporarily and receive daily allowances. This is something we in the Left have fought to get into the agreements, and we are pleased that we are now implementing it in a legislative proposal. As I said, the Left supports the bill. And then I shall announce and greet the new citizens and say that they also support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101726	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101733	I understand that the Left is disappointed that the government is not putting forward any other legislative proposals or a financial bill that increases employment and prosperity in Denmark. We in the Liberal Alliance are very disappointed about this too, but the Left could not vote in favour of the government's proposals which reduce employment in Denmark, such as Denmark. This. After all, no one is forcing the Left to take part in this agreement which reduces employment in Denmark and passes a bill on to taxpayers. You still do. Can the Left explain why the Left does not just stop voting for steps that go in the wrong direction, rather than stand on the platform and trouble over the fact that the government is not doing something that is going in the right direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101819	This agreement has been concluded between the government and the social partners, and we have great respect for that. What I was puzzled about was the fact that it was supposed to come in so late that many thousands of people in August have actually received a note of fire, among other things. here in Copenhagen in the hotel and catering industry. So we would have liked it to have been concluded at a much earlier stage. It is true, then, that, in isolation, this agreement does not contribute to increased job creation, but it contributes to the security of the many employees who are currently out on export companies, who are currently in a very precarious situation, and the Left also wants to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101906	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101908	Now it is the case that there is a significant degree of cofinancing in this state bill, which means that the social partners cannot agree that the state should spend money. The government doesn't have any money either. Every grant granted must be given by the Folketing, and here the Left stands as a large member of the Folketing saying: we want to help give this money. This is a decision of the Left. There can be no saying that this is something about the social partners and the government, because they cannot decide to distribute money for purposes if they do not think it is good. So why does the Left support spending money on this? It is not enough to say the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907101948	The social partners and the government have concluded this agreement, but, as I also said, the Left also supports the creation of security and security for thousands of employees currently employed, among others. export companies which are in a very uncertain situation. And then there is no doubt that the Left would like to see initiatives set in motion in Denmark that create further job growth. There I think we are completely in line with the Liberal Alliance that they are totally absent from the government's proposal for a Finance Act. And that is where I think we should stand together and press the government to ensure that there is actually a job growth. Because this can't be alone, we totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102035	The next brief remark is to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102039	Thank you. It's actually not that much for this, as there's a debate on the Finance Act tomorrow. But now the rapporteur mentioned it himself. Well, I am completely confused, so I hope the rapporteur can help me. On the one hand, the Left and the opposition are opposed to the government pumping 9 billion. kr. I think it is a good thing that we should be able to achieve growth next year and, on the other hand, we do not think it is good enough. I don't know if everyone else is confused, but I'm confused. So can the rapporteur tell us again what is up and down in this whole situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102110	We do not think that the government's financial law proposal, as it stands, contributes to a new high rate of job growth in Denmark, and that is what priority should be given in a situation where unemployment has risen enormously. There, then, we need to take initiatives to increase growth and optimism. It is true that we support the tripartite agreement. It creates security, but then we need to take further steps, and what we have heard the most about is that the government is discussing how to finance the early retirement pension for Arne with rising taxes and taxes in the order of 3 billion. kr. This is not the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102159	In the almost 13 years I have been in the Folketing, I have not helped spend as much money as in the last six months to help businesses and others get started, that is to say, to create growth. Of course, it has been because of the whole corona part, and we have done so most of the time with the Left. I do not know whether the Left does not think that is good enough and that we should have spent many more billions. I think we are up to a few hundred billion. I do not know the exact figure. But now the rapporteur also says that it is not good enough to spend 9 billion. kr. Next year on growth. So that means how much money will the Left spend? It is quite interesting to know here: How much money will you spend on growth next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102236	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102237	The rapporteur will be able to see this when the Left presents its draft budget, and we are also looking forward to tomorrow's debate on the government's financial bill. It has to be said that part of this is also about financing the early retirement pension for Arne, and this will be done by the government if it is up to the government to increase taxes and taxes. There we say in the Left: that is not the way we want to go. We do not want to send a huge bill now to businesses, and then it will end up with the landowners. That's where the water partes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102315	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102324	Thank you. It may well be that tomorrow it will be an interesting debate with the financial law negotiations, because the bill always ends with the citizen. Whatever you call it, it is always the citizen with whom the bill comes in one form or another. But we'll let the financiers do that tomorrow. After all, this proposal on the division of labour and the bill on the increase in unemployment benefit comes from an agreement negotiated by the social partners and, as has been said, they are probably a little late. It had not been put in place before the other arrangements expired, as is the previous draft law. But let it be, better late than never. I do not want to repeat everything that has been said, but some of what I have come across in the proposal for a directive on the division of labour is a direct question to the Minister, to which the Minister may address himself in the chair here. It is, of course, whether the companies that have been engaged in a division of labour which expires and where there has been a stay between can make use of a new division of labour. And question number 2 is: If they are in the process of a division of labour at the present time, they can then build on the division of labour that they may be doing, i.e.. Does the period of division of labour extend by the four months which may run into the next year? These are some questions that I think are important. There may be an explanation. I just don't think I can figure out if there's that possibility in the bill or if they can't make use of it. It could be important to get an answer to that. Another question is: it says about the division of labour in agreements, but what about the companies that are in the same squeeze that do not have an agreement? Can they make use of the division of labour and benefit from this system here, or is it only for those who have agreed to use the system of division of labour? It is also a question I would like the Minister to address in the platform. It is then planned to increase the level of compensation for daily allowances over the four-month period, and we understand that this can, of course, help to ensure that there is not so much reluctance to go on the division of labour and that we must help each other out in companies. The companies also pay G-days in this regard as their subsidies to the schemes. So far along the way, I think it is reasonable proposals that are here that we can support in the Danish People's Party. But what we are also interested in knowing, of course, is whether the government has any idea or idea that, when these arrangements expire, it might already be necessary to negotiate a new extension if the situation of covid-19 has not improved. We have seen increasing figures, and there is not quite the wild sign that the outside world and the countries around us with whom we have trade have significantly improved the situation. The fact that we are getting production companies going at home has a lot to do with how things look in our trading countries, and there is no guarantee that it will lighten up in the next four months. So the question is whether the government is already considering extending these arrangements when we get to December and whether negotiations on new extensions are going to start, and how long does the government expect to be able to do this, because at some point we are going to get to where the wealth lacks money and there is no possibility of extending the arrangements anymore? However, these are some questions that I really would like the Minister to address here on the platform, but the Danish People's Party supports the proposals because it helps employees, it helps companies to keep the wheels running, and then it is a question of how to combine it and how long you can run with it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102831	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur will not be allowed to leave the floor right away, because there is a request for a brief comment from Mr McMillan-Scott. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102843	I'd like to ask Sir. Bent Bøgsted asked a question because Mr. Bent Bøgsted has a great deal of experience as an employment rapporteur. I'm just standing here as a temp, and that's why I need some consultancy. In fact, I can read from the draft law that, although more people are allowed to go on unemployment benefits and to go on higher daily allowances, there are no financial consequences for anyone in this regard, either for business or for the public sector. - Sir... Bent Bøgsted explains how that can be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102912	No. Of course it's a little difficult to explain that there are no consequences. But it certainly has consequences for temporary workers, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentions himself to be, i.e. they cannot make use of the division of work. But I can't explain how the government has figured out that it has no consequences. Now the Danish People's Party is not included in the overall agreement, but we can support these initiatives, so I would recommend that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen asks the same question to the Minister for Employment and I hope so will receive a qualified answer. But I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102947	There is no wish for any other brief comment, so we thank the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907102957	Thank you. The previous wage compensation scheme expired on 29 August, and although, like the rapporteur on the Left, I would have liked a slightly more smooth transition, it is true that it is possible to say better late than never • now, towards the end of the year, an opportunity is being created for a new division of labour for all employees for up to 4 months. This allows companies to maintain their employees even if there is not enough work for full-time employment. And it is a good solution for both companies and employees. Employees can receive additional daily allowance during the time they do not work and the daily allowance rate in the new work-sharing scheme will be approx. 20% higher, and a good part of the funding contributes to the employers. In addition, there are better opportunities for upskilling during unemployment when you are on supplementary daily allowance, and uninsured persons also have access to supplementary daily allowance from paying to the cashier. All parties must give in, and we have generally been good at this throughout the period of corona. And the social partners are once again pointing the way with the tripartite agreement on a new temporary arrangement for the distribution of labour. Radical Left supports both legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907103123	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907103131	Agreements between the trade union movement, employers and the state provide lasting solutions. This is another example of this tripartite agreement and shows the value of agreements and a regulated labour market. Members of the divisive organizations such as Krifa, the Trade Union House, Ase Employees and Free Employees are now once again receiving all the benefits, but are lurked by the organized employees, who, together with employers, enter into both agreements and in this situation cooperate with the state for precisely sustainable solutions. It is also the social mind to support the organisations that carry the Danish labour market and thus the welfare society on a daily basis. As in all agreements, there are parts that are more attracted than others, but the overall agreement that lies ahead of us is a means of avoiding more redundancies than is absolutely necessary. Unemployment follows in the wake of corona, and in some companies the distribution of labour can help alleviate some of the consequences of the health crisis. The increased daily allowance of DKK 23,000 In the opinion of the SF, better opportunities for retraining in the event of unemployment should be made permanent. I hope that the two provisions inspired the government and will make some lasting progress. The SF can support the Bills.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907103315	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907103330	Thank you so much. It is good that proposals have been made to improve the distribution of labour. It offers some opportunities to make things slip. Then there is also a kind of confession case, namely that the proposal increases the daily allowance rate over the period. The amount of the daily allowance is not sufficient to guarantee an allowance, so it is important that we get an indication here that this is the case. It is a good thing that the agreement also includes officials. There is no doubt that this has been a balancing act, and on one point the balance has broken slightly. It is the case that the Civil Service Act has certain employment security conditions, and so a wording has been included in the draft law which is not in the agreement, namely that employees should automatically see themselves as fired if they have said no to the scheme. This deprives the employee, if I may say so, of the opportunity to argue as to whether the dismissal in question is factual. A firing must never become an automatic, and therefore it is important that it be deleted, and if I am to be precise, it is § 2 paragraph 2. 3, last line, for it is opening a barn gate in relation to an undermining of the civil servant law. So we can't really have that. I'm sorry if this gets a little messy, but these are the conditions with the way in which urgent legislation is going. If I have to deal with L 213, which is being treated together here with L 212, I would say that there are a few ambiguities. However, I very much welcome the fact that it will not be possible to recruit new people in company practice, payroll jobs or the like if such a division of labour has been established. Then there are some things that are puzzling. As far as the consumption of daily allowances is concerned, the reference period runs only until 31 December. It is a little strange when the scheme can run until 1 April, so there is something that lags behind. The whole period during which there is a possibility of consumption should apply until 30 April. Then I am surprised that the youth movement has not been mentioned. I understand that young people under the age of 25 who become part of a division of labour will, of course, also receive the increased rate of unemployment benefit. But there is at least an uncertainty and ambiguity about how the youth rate is being affected by this. I'm going to ask that question, apologize to the Ministry, because it has to be today. Then I would say that we are really concerned about the additional opportunities for training outlined in the agreement, where you can go on training instead of going home on the couch while you are part of a division of labour. I'd like to see what kind of incentives are in this proposal to start these training courses. After all, this requires interaction between educational institutions, employers and employees, and I do not really see that the incentive that should be provided for this to happen has been taken into account. I would certainly like to see an inventory of how much it has been spent when the scheme expires, because it can also give an indication of how attentive employers are to educational opportunities. Then it is with open eyes that we go into it, that one gets the opportunity to have a small shortcut to an insurance fund. It is my hope that the people who are given that opportunity will be aware and really aware that they must be up to their feet, because this is an abnormal situation, but it can become normal and that it is probably very important to be insured in this way. Finally, I would like to say that this whole system will be very difficult to manage for the cashiers and that it will not be passed on to the cashiers, by the way. This applies both to the extraordinary memberships and to the assessment of how many times the division of labour has worked. There is also the fact that employers make four weeks of work in their distribution of work, but it is months that they look at it. All these things are going to be enormously troublesome for the A-boxes, and I really hope that they are aware of it and that there will be a good deal with the A-Kelly or something else to ensure that it does not become completely unmanageable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907103816	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907103827	Thank you. Today, we are cooperating with L 212 and L 213, both of which translate a number of elements of the tripartite agreement on a new temporary work-sharing arrangement in the private labour market concluded by the government and the social partners on 31 August 2020. The Danish model has a proud tradition that we must safeguard. That is why we support that part. In addition, L 213 contains an implementation of the changes that were made to the agreement on better conditions for particularly badly affected parts of Danish business, sports and cultural life, on which a broad majority of the Folketing has agreed. This ensures that self-employed persons have easier access to the daily allowance resulting from the covid-19. It is conservative heartblood to take care of the private sector, which is why we can of course also support that part of the agreement. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907103930	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907103936	Yes, it's for sir. Naser Khaders talks about the fact that it should be part of the Danish model, that if the government, which does not have the right to grant money, and the social partners, which of course also do not have the right to grant money from the Treasury, makes an agreement, then here in the Folketing, which is the body that grants the money, we just have to put the stamp down and say: it is all right that you have decided that you want to spend some money, so we just do that because it is the Danish model. Is it really the Conservative People's Party's view that the Folketing should in this way act rubber stamp with taxpayers' money when others outside the Folketing think they want some money?
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104019	No, but that's not generally the case. We are in a unique situation, and then the employers and the government have reached an agreement, a tripartite agreement. I am listening to employers and they are very pleased with that agreement. Because it will create more jobs, and of course we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104037	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104039	No, it will certainly not create more jobs to increase the daily allowance by 20%. If that were the case, we could do it in all sorts of contexts and get jobs out of it. But that's not true. It costs 330 million. kr. for the public with this scheme, which the Conservative People's Party is now saying yes to, and I understand that is because some would like that money. Because some of the social partners and because the government, which is a social democratic government that wants to distribute other people's money, wants to, it is only that the Folketing is rubber stamp for the distribution of money. And this is the Conservatives' view of what the Danish model is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104112	Isolatedly, we are not in favour of increasing the amount of benefit. But we are in a unique situation where we need specific initiatives, and we therefore support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104124	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104141	Thank you. We are dealing here with two legislative proposals which will increase the level of compensation for unemployment benefits in a special work-sharing scheme in the light of the corona crisis. It has to be increased by 20 per cent, that is to say 20 per cent. higher maximum daily allowance rates in Denmark for people who take advantage of this scheme. Some companies would like to take advantage of this. It's always nice to have access to other people's money, and some employees would like to use it. Again, it's always nice to have access to other people's money. Then we have the government, which puts forward a bill which says "and I acknowledge that it is an urgent legislative proposal, but nevertheless that the scheme has no financial consequences for the public, no financial consequences, and at the same time Mrs Jette Gottlieb was kind enough to hand me a note prepared by the Ministry stating that it costs 330 million. kr. for the public that this is now being implemented. Well, the bill says it costs nothing, and the note says it costs 330 million. kr. for the public with this scheme. Either there is some technical explanation for the fact that both can be true at the same time, and that explanation may be accepted if you are a technician, but for most people it must be stated in the draft law that it has no economic impact on the public sector, if the second note, which shows that it costs 330 million. kr. for the public, is true. We cannot vote in favour of the two legislative proposals. We do not think that Denmark is in a situation where we can afford to increase the daily allowance. On the contrary, we must start to think about how we get more people into employment, how, if a sector cuts down, perhaps over a longer period, we increase the motivation for people to then want to find out how they get into other sectors, instead of delaying that process with different wage compensation schemes and work-sharing schemes, etc., so that there is no development in the labour market where people are looking where they are needed. In fact, that is what makes our society a successful society and our economy a successful economy, that is, that there is the flexibility that, when there is a decline in some sectors, there is a desire and motivation for the employees who are there to go to other sectors where, in turn, you can benefit from the additional labour available. So we believe that this is going in exactly the opposite direction, and we do not understand that our bourgeois friends in the Left and the Conservatives in particular are backing this. One thing is to complain that the government is not doing anything to create growth and employment in this country. We agree entirely with that, but we are voting over and over again for the government's proposals, which go the opposite way, such as the Commission's proposals. This is completely incomprehensible to us. So we're voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104455	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104500	Thank you. Now, sir. Ole Birk Olesen kindly ask me questions about the economy there. I just want to say, when you look at Bill No. L 212 on the introduction of the division of labour, it says that there are no economic consequences, but then you take Bill No. L 213, which raises the amount to DKK 23,000, states that there are financial consequences for the state, municipalities and regions by 2020 of 144 million. kr., and then it drops to 38.4 million. kr., 9.5 million. kr. and 10.5 million kr. So there you see the extent of the economic consequences for the state and the municipalities there. So it is written that there are economic consequences here in L 213, but not in L 212, because L 212 is just about a right to introduce job distribution. But it is in L 213 that the economic consequences are written in as I read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104613	Yeah, and that's what I read in the first place when I looked through the bill. Then I got access to this note, called Economic Review of New Temporary Labour Distribution, and then it says: Public extra expenditure on a new temporary distribution of labour after tax, reflows and behavior, with considerable uncertainty, totals 330 million. kr. over the period from 2020 to 2023. So it is just a mystery how the bill can claim that it has no financial consequences, and the note can say that it will cost 330 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104651	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104652	Well then, I just have one question about understanding: doesn't match it well enough with that in Bill No. L 213 says that there is again the fact that there are two pillars there, but it has been listed that there are economic consequences both for the municipalities and for the state when you look at the inventory. Doesn't match it well enough with the note that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen got? It may be that the figures are not exactly the same, but it is again a question of how to add together the figures in the bill here. It's just to understand if the government doesn't have
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104744	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104745	It does not look like that, first of all, the figures that Mr. Bent Bøgsted mentions from L 213, somewhat lower than the figures in this note, Economic Review for a new temporary division of labour. The figures included here are that by 2020 there is a cost 255 million. DKK, in 2021 55 million kr., then 5 million. kr. and then 15 million. kr. When you go in and look at Bill No. L 212, it is claimed that there are no economic consequences at all. It is strange, of course, that we should extend the possibility of making allowances for more people and increase the daily allowance for these people, and at the same time we should claim that no one should have to pay a bill for it. That'd be great. Has the money tree finally been found? Is it down in the Ministry of Employment's farm?
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104833	The next brief remark is to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104837	You have to be nice to each other at this time, and now I want to be nice to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. I'll try to spell it out: this is two bills. One bill does not say anything about the economy in it, but the other proposal does. So when you have to work together, it's a huge advantage to read both laws. Sir. Bent Bøgsted tried to explain that the last draft law, L 213, says about the economic consequences. Now, sir, he's shaking. Ole Birk Olesen on the head. If sir... Ole Birk Olesen claims that it is not there, I think the rapporteur should sit down to read it and then admit that it is actually there. Then you may disagree that that is what we have to do, but it is in Bill No. L 213.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907104924	But it doesn't work that way. When you make a bill, L 212, and in that bill and in the notes to the bill explain various things and matters and there writes ^ as you now do as standard, so write what the financial consequences of this are for the public and for the business community that there are no financial consequences, then it is not the case that you can then refer to the fact that it is in another bill, which happens to be in conjunction with the first bill in the Parliamentary Assembly. Moreover, the figures do not match the figures from L 213 to the note on the consequences for new division of labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907105000	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907105001	Again, what costs here for working days is the G-days, and that is the 20% increase. in cash benefits, and you can read this in Bill No. L 213. I just have to say quite clearly that the rapporteur has just forgotten to read both legislative proposals before making a statement, and that is fair enough because the party is not big. It was really just to help the rapporteur, because it is exactly what it has to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907105024	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907105026	That is not true, because if there is a cost of 330 million. kr. As a result of a new division of labour, it must also be included in the new division of labour bill. Of course. The co-operation of two legislative proposals in the Parliamentary Assembly does not mean that the information should not be written in each legislative proposal, because that is what we should do. It is quite wrong to write that L 212 does not have any economic consequences when there are
ParlaMint-DK_20200907105054	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thus all the rapporteurs who wanted to speak have made their views known, and that is why it is the Minister for Employment. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907105112	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for your consideration and thanking the many parties that have supported the legislative proposals that we are discussing today. As all of you have also noted, we are back together to deal urgently with legislative proposals that deal with the consequences of the corona crisis. Again, it is a question of implementing an important tripartite agreement in which the social partners have taken co-responsibility, and I hope that Parliament will support this. This time too, there's a lot at stake. It is a question of avoiding redundancies in the Danish workplaces. After several extensions, the wage compensation scheme has now been phased out. This is done on the recommendation of the economic group of experts. The wage compensation scheme has been an important and innovative crisis regime. 275,000 employees have been repatriated with wage compensation, and this has saved a great many jobs. Fortunately, the vast majority of them are back at work again, and this has provided great security in many families over the past six months. The expert group also recommended that the compensation scheme be replaced by a new and adjusted work allocation scheme. The government has listened to the expert group. We have negotiated with the social partners, and on the night of 31 August we managed to reach a tripartite agreement which strengthens the possibility of division of labour. The new temporary work-sharing system makes it easier for companies to establish a division of labour. On the other hand, employees receive higher rates of unemployment benefit when they are not at work. It is a delicate balance between flexibility for companies and security for employees, and it was difficult to land. I think we have succeeded in finding a good balance and replacement for the wage compensation scheme, which can reduce the number of redundancies throughout the year and into 2021. The legislative proposals here also lead to the proposal to make it easier for non-insured self-employed workers, who have been on temporary compensation schemes, to obtain daily allowances, and this extends the existing system for self-employed workers in forced sectors to stop temporarily and to be entitled to benefit. Both changes stem from the agreement on better conditions for particularly badly affected parts of Danish business, sports and cultural life and hold hands under the self-employed and freelancers who have been on the compensation schemes. In the debate here, of course, a few questions have also been raised. Sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party raised four questions in connection with his rapporteur's speech. The first two on whether this system can make use of the new system of division of labour if one has just left the old system, or one has the option of extending or stepping into the new one, as it were, if one is in the process of a current system of division of labour to both questions is the answer yes. The third question was that this applies only to companies with collective bargaining. Perhaps that is also partly an answer to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and to the whole controversy before about Bills 212 and 213. What Bill 212 does, and where it was also a controversial element in the negotiations, is that it gives the employer a one-sided legal temporary right to set up a division of labour, and that is what Bill 212 is all about. As it is today, the division of labour is agreed through the agreements. With this tripartite agreement, during a temporary period, we are neglecting the agreement on work distributions and are today discussing a bill which gives the company a legal right to unilaterally implement a division of labour. I believe that the rapporteurs from different parties can surely figure out why this has been a controversial element. The last question, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted travels, is whether it is already planned to extend this temporary work-sharing scheme into 2021. This has not been decided at this stage, but it is part of the agreement that the parties to the agreement from the Tripartite Party will meet again at the beginning of November and look at the situation we find ourselves in. Is this even being used? Is it the right tool to prevent redundancies of key employees etc. in the business world, which may be experiencing a drop in orders as a result of falling demand from the countries around us that are hard hit by the corona crisis? I think that was some of the questions raised. Of course, there was also a lot of debate. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance raised the issue of funding. If you look up the bill, i.e. 213, on page 21, you can see that it actually starts already on pages 16 and 17 • what the financial consequences are. And there are consequences both for the public as well as for the business community. Maybe that's some of the stuff that's messing with those amounts. As a whole, there is, of course, a sum of economic consequences for the public sector. Some of this is then deducted, i.e. the fact that employers themselves contribute to the scheme by paying with G-days during an initiated division of labour. All in all, in 2020, employers contribute 186.5 million. kr. In 2021 it is expected to be 40,7 million. kr. I think that was some of the issues that were raised in the first place during the debate. Then, of course, there was sir. Hans Andersen from the Left and also Mrs Samira Nawa from Radicale, who raised the question of whether it might have been better if it had been a smooth transition from the end of wage compensation on 29 August, i.e. if there had already been something ready. I think everyone agrees on that. I would have liked the tripartite agreement to have fallen into place earlier. It didn't work out that way. That is why I am very pleased that we will be able to deal urgently with the legislative proposals in this Parliament during this week. But of course it also covers the fact that for both sides it has been very far-reaching and fundamental discussions that have been going on in relation to the elements of this division of labour. That is why, of course, I would like to thank Parliament's parties for the fact that we can deal with these proposals as a matter of urgency. For companies trip after getting started using the scheme so that they can avoid firing their employees. I look forward to further consideration and once again thank the parties for pulling back on your work clothes and taking responsibility and helping to deal urgently with legislative proposals that lead to a truly central tripartite agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907105754	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a few brief remarks, and first it is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907105759	I understand the Minister's argument that, in one bill, the Minister thinks that the unemployment benefit reform is being reformed; in the other, the bill then provides for the possibility of making use of these new and more lucrative benefit rules. And then it is claimed that giving it the opportunity to take advantage of the more lucrative benefit rules does not constitute a cost in itself. I find that hard to see. I'll tell you what. But what I really wanted to ask the Minister, and as we have heard from several, is that there should be a Danish model: if the social partners agree that they would like to have some money, and then persuade the government that they should have it, then the Danish model is that the grant comes automatically from the Danish Parliament, that is, where you actually grant the money, namely in the Folketing, you just take note that someone wants some money, and then you give it. It's the Danish model. Does the Minister agree that this is the Danish model?
ParlaMint-DK_20200907105857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907105858	Well, I don't think it's anywhere that parliament per. We must support the tripartite agreements that are being concluded. Fortunately, there is a tradition of the Folketing doing so, among other things. Because the tripartite agreements often reflect the fact that all parties have delivered something to the agreements, and this has also been the case in this temporary, short-term, improved work-sharing system. It is true that the state, like Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says, contributes some economy to it; so do employers. And what employees are really contributing is to accept that, unlike today, they cannot object to an established system of division of labour, including, of course, the discussion on how it puts employees with employee rights and so on. So everyone has actually defrauded to provide the possibility that you can put employees down in time in order to avoid layoffs in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907105953	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907105955	But the fact that there should be an acceptance in the Folketing of the results of tripartite agreements presupposes that the government that negotiates, as in the past, has tried or calculated that there will be support from the Folketing for the government's position in the tripartite negotiations, and that is to say from those parties that do not, in this process, think that what the government negotiates is their position; that is, the government does not negotiate on behalf of them. And if there were a majority in the Folketing who did not think that the government was negotiating on behalf of them, then this majority would have no duty to vote for it according to some model, as it is referred to as Danish, because the government would have negotiated with taxpayers' money without a real mandate from the Folketing. That is why I think it should be made clear that parties are not obliged to vote in favour of what comes out of tripartite negotiations. It is the Folketing that is over the trialogue negotiations. Parliament is over and the government is under, and so are the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110108	Well, it's quite obvious what sir. Ole Birk Olesen says. It is not in the Constitution or elsewhere that all parties are obliged to support the tripartite agreements that are being concluded. This is also why the government humbly comes to the Folketing and asks for support. Having said that, however, I believe that it is basically a tool which helps to ensure some very, very good balances on the Danish labour market; it is both seen through the spectacles that are the opposition, where another government of another observer, including one in which Ole Birk Olesen participated, has concluded tripartite agreements, and through the spectacles of the government that has concluded tripartite agreements. Therefore, my approach as a Social Democrat, both in government and in opposition, will often be to look favourably on the tripartite agreements that are being concluded, regardless of who is the contracting party on the government side.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110203	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110207	I would like to ask the question about the extension in the reply to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, if you would have liked the scheme to be extended further once there had been this summing up at the beginning of November. I would like to ask the question of the authority contained in the draft law, that is to say in L 212, because there is no authority in L 213, thank goodness, which is quite far-reaching: does this mean that, as a result of some negotiations with the parties, the Minister can decide that we are extending the scheme? Does the authorisation need to be understood so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110244	At the risk of having to come back with a written reply, I immediately remember the draft law in that the scheme runs until 31 December and that there is a possibility of implementing work distributions up to and including 31 December and that they can last for four months. This means that you can actually have work distributions that run 4 months into 2021. However, should the social partners, together with the government, at the time of the beginning of November when we are to meet, find the opportunity to agree with each other that there is a need for further extension, the government will come back to the Folketing and ask for support for such an extension.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110322	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110324	I understand that as a limitation of the authorisation, it does not, therefore, merely include a possible extension. But there are also other points, such as: That special groups of employees can be freed and that you can free special key employees and then I know very well about companies where you free 17 key employees and let 3 go on work distribution, because you want to get rid of them. Is it also within the competence of the Minister to decide to approve such measures, or is it referred to professional treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110356	The discussions which may arise in a frontier case where an employee who himself believes that he or she has a specially protected status for one reason or another, wrongly considers that he or she is assigned to the division of labour, will be referred to the system of professional law. In addition, the parties agree that the trade-union system must also operate in the context of this temporary work-sharing system. In fact, the whole of the work-sharing system agreed reflects the growing desire, particularly from the employers' side at the end of the wage compensation scheme, where it could be seen that there had been more to be ordered at the workplace, but where the wage compensation scheme was geared towards a situation in which much of the output and much of the activity had been closed down. Therefore, this allows for greater flexibility in relation to how much you use it and how you use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110457	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110500	Thank you. Well, it's just that I don't think that Mr. Knox... Ole Birk Olesen must be very sad when he walks out of this Chamber today. I would just like to confirm that when the parties make a tripartite agreement, it is true that then the government makes the proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber and, if there is a majority against them, they cannot be adopted. It's such a help to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, so he can walk a little smiling from here. He's right about what he says.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110537	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. I think that's what I was trying to say to Mr. Kim. Ole Birk Olesen before, but of course I also explained what has historically been my party's approach to tripartite agreements that have been made. These are not all tripartite agreements throughout history where we thought that our priorities were reflected exactly the way we would like to see them. However, when both employees and employers, together with a government, try to find sensible balances and we can see ourselves in it, we are in any case happy to support it. And I can see that there is also a strong history for all the parties in between. But it is clear that there is nowhere to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110619	The next brief remark is to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110623	It is just one question, following on from what Mrs Jette Gottlieb raised in her rapporteur's speech, namely about the daily allowance rate of DKK 23 000. It also includes young people who otherwise go on a youth course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110635	I think I have to return to that in writing, because I simply cannot remember it standing here on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110643	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the two legislative proposals be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200907110659	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Tuesday, 8 September 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
