ParlaMint-DK_20201105100002	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Liselot Blixt (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Request no. F 16 (Will the Minister ensure that in future staff in the psychiatry can use a service number instead of their full name when registering in a patient's file so that staff do not have to live in fear of being visited by a patient in the affected?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100020	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100040	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100052	Thank you, President. Today we are dealing with L 36, which ensures that the Control Directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road is properly transposed into Danish legislation. This has not been the case since 1995, unfortunately. The draft law introduces two provisions into the Road Traffic Code, one of which ensures that the police can withhold or recommend vehicles in connection with their roadside control of vehicles carrying dangerous goods if the vehicle does not comply with the rules. The second provision of the draft law ensures that the Agency can carry out inspections in companies carrying out the transport of dangerous goods. The roadside control task is already in the hands of the National Police, as the operational road control is carried out by the police and as the rules are today, the police can thus stop a vehicle carrying dangerous goods and investigate it in order to check that the transport complies with the rules. In the case of police roadside checks, there are sometimes serious infringements of the rules on the transport of dangerous goods, but under the legislation in force, the police are not allowed to withhold a vehicle or require the driver to recommend the vehicle in connection with roadside checks until the transport is brought in accordance with the rules. The legislative proposal therefore provides for the possibility of effective action by the police when it is found that a transport operation is not in accordance with the rules. The company control is located at the Danish Trade Agency, which has the technical and administrative expertise in the field of road transport of dangerous goods. Today, it is unfortunately the case that companies carrying dangerous goods do not have inspections. There is no legal basis in the law for carrying out such checks, and that legal basis is then introduced by this bill. The draft law provides for company control to be carried out both as reactive supervision on the basis of police roadside checks and proactive supervision in the form of random checks in companies carrying out the transport of dangerous goods. It is an approach that implements sensible EU rules in Danish legislation, so that the right authorities have the opportunity to carry out controls on the road as well as in companies in order to create greater safety with dangerous goods. These are good measures that the Social Democrats can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100312	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100319	After all, the draft law that we are going to deal with here today ensures that the police are given the necessary powers in the field of road control of dangerous goods transport. We in the Left believe it is important that the police should be able to withhold vehicles and require the driver of a vehicle to recommend the vehicle at a location designated by the police. The Left believes it is important that we ensure a high level of safety on our roads and we must ensure that our drivers can move safely and safely. This is what we will do with the legislative proposal, thereby ensuring general road safety. We in the Left welcome the proposal because the Control Directive obliges Member States to carry out checks on the road transport of dangerous goods carried out by vehicles used in the territory of the Member States or arriving from a third country. After all, it is important that we meet our obligations in European cooperation and increase roadside controls so that the transport of dangerous goods does not affect drivers. Road transport of dangerous goods can pose a serious safety risk and therefore it is important that we take action in relation to dangerous goods before it is taken onto the roads. We believe it is important that inspections can be carried out at companies carrying out transport by dangerous goods. This will strengthen effective and preventive supervision, which will help to improve compliance with the rules governing the transport of dangerous goods by road. This proposal for a directive ensures that the transport of dangerous goods is monitored in a safe manner in accordance with the rules governing the transport of dangerous goods by road. That is why the Left supports the bill and we would like to say that we welcome the fact that the proposal here has been included, so that we are fully in line with what is intended by the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100458	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And that's why we can move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100515	As the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, the draft law deals with the control of the transport of dangerous goods by road. Specifically, it is a question of implementing Articles 5 and 6 of the Control Directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road, which obliges countries to carry out checks on the transport of dangerous goods by road. The two articles mentioned have the challenge of not having the Danish authorities' authority today, and this proposal, which in our opinion in the Danish People's Party, is a positive one, is being corrected. Article 5 allows the inspection authorities to retain or recommend vehicles to a location until the vehicle complies with the rules. It's the National Police that gets that power. Article 6 allows preventive inspections to be carried out in companies. If the transport of dangerous goods does not comply with the rules governing the carriage of dangerous goods by road, the vehicle shall not leave the establishment until it is put in order. This is where the Department of Commerce will be responsible for that control and authority task. Both sound positive. One might wonder, however, why we need an EU directive to deal with it. Do we really need an EU directive to deal with common sense? Could the nation states themselves not have handled what powers of control the individual governments should have properly in order to ensure that dangerous goods are in control in Denmark? We in the Danish People's Party believe that this could have been done without the need for an EU directive to ensure that the Holy Grail is well preserved. But peace be with it. After all, the proposal is sympathetic, sensible and wise, and we can also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100702	There are no brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100717	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteurs, the Radicals support the bill, which, of course, is one of them. is an implementation of EU rules. It is so fine when we now have cross-border controls on dangerous goods that we also have similar rules on how it is handled. So radicals support the bill, and I should like to say from the Socialist People's Party that they also support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100737	Thank you. There are no brief comments, which is why we have now come to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100749	Thank you. As our rapporteur in this area, Mr. Henning Hyllested, who cannot be here, I have promised to put forward the views and can say that the Enhedslisten is very pleased that there will now be a stronger control over the transport of dangerous goods, and it is common sense, as a rapporteur has just said, to get it going. We have a few questions for parts of what we want to raise in connection with the work of the committee, but the Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100815	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then we have come to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100828	The Conservative People's Party also supports the bill, which is, of course, the implementation of some EU rules and, incidentally, some sensible decisions to have more control over dangerous goods, and we agree with that, as do the other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100844	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we have come to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100900	A lot has been said about this bill by the other rapporteurs, so I will not tire you of it. I would just like to say that we in the New Citizens' Party also support this bill and that we also have some attention points which we need to clarify in committee. But we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100918	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why it is now the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105100929	First of all, thank you for the positive words and positive expressions of the parties of the Folketing. I have, of course, noted that there will be supplementary questions from the Enhedslisten and from New Citizens, and we will, of course, endeavour to answer them as best we can. However, with the excellent reviews that have been made by the rapporteurs, I should not think that there is a need to add further, and I look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105101001	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105101015	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105101026	There are a number of heavy-duty tricycles and light four-wheel motor vehicles called trikes and quadricycles. ATV, i.e. all terrain vehicle, is also a so-called quadricycle, and they are today categorized as a car under the Road Traffic Act. As vehicles are categorized as a car, there is no obligation to wear a crash helmet when riding them. Such an obligation applies today only when driving on a motorcycle or moped, and several of the heavy-duty three-wheel and light four-wheel vehicles are constructed with saddle and without bodywork to protect the driver. This is therefore equivalent to riding a motorcycle or a moped in the event of an accident. It is clear from the draft law that, in this context, it is proposed that the obligation to use a crash helmet should also include drivers and passengers of a tricycle car and lightly four-wheeled car, i.e. what is called trikes or quadricycles. However, if the vehicle is fitted with a safety belt there will be an obligation to use the safety belt. The rules for the use of personal protective equipment for tricycles and light four-wheel vehicles will thus be the same as for mopeds and motorcycles. Certain ATVs are currently registered and categorized as a tractor under the Road Traffic Act and this is because some ATVs are approved as a tractor, and they are designed to pull another vehicle or work equipment and are designed for a speed of not more than 40 km/h. These vehicles will therefore not be covered by the proposed helmet liability. When it comes to the use of safety equipment, I think it is obvious that the same rules should apply to the three-wheel and light four-wheel vehicles that apply to motorbikes and mopeds. That is why I believe that the draft law is good for road safety. Compared to a single point contained in the draft law, it is also an extension of the existing exception on the use of handheld microphone by police and rescue teams connected to fixed telecommunications equipment while driving. This derogation is extended by the draft law to all types of handheld telecommunications equipment and other handheld communication devices. The draft law will therefore allow the police and rescue services to use such equipment while driving when necessary for specific operational interventions. Enlargement means that, among other things, the police and the rescue services. It will also be possible to use handheld mobile phones while driving, but that is to say only if this is exceptionally necessary for the specific police task or emergency response. Since the ban on the use of handheld telecommunications equipment while driving should not hinder the tasks of the police and rescue services, I believe that the proposed derogation is quite reasonable. Finally, the draft law clarifies the authority of the Minister of Transport to prohibit the use of a vehicle for road safety purposes. The draft law specifies that the Minister of Transport may restrict the area in which a vehicle may be used if it can be justified by road safety considerations. I think that clarification makes really, really good sense. They are all good measures that help to increase road safety, and that is why social democracy can support them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105101350	There are no brief comments. So, thank you to the rapporteur, and then we move on to Mr Seligman's report. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105101357	Thank you. After all, the legislative proposal that we are going to deal with today helps to ensure road safety. Technological development means that new vehicles are gaining ground and, of course, we as legislators must follow that trend. For many years we've gotten used to, one way or another, riding a moped or a motorcycle, you're wearing a crash helmet. All accident statistics show that this is the right thing to do, which is why it is quite natural that we should now regulate the law to suit existing vehicles. If you drive a light four-wheel car, an ATV or a heavy tricycle car, it is physically equivalent to riding a motorcycle or moped. Technically, the rules governing the behaviour of a car must be complied with, and when crash helmets are only a legal requirement for mopeds and motorcycles, there is no obligation to be sure of these types of vehicles, and that must be changed. If one of these vehicles is in an accident, it is like riding a motorcycle without a crash helmet. No one wants to imagine an accident on a motorcycle where the crash helmet is not excited. Security is the key word in this law. And safety on the roads, but also safety in society, the police must be given the best conditions to ensure, and when they demand the possibility of using handheld telecommunications equipment and equipment in certain situations, they must be allowed to do so. These are deeply professional people who are trained in handling stressful and dangerous situations. We can leave them to use phones in special situations. Handlerum and flexibility are two concepts that are important in order to be able to act quickly. That's what the minister gets with this law. When an area needs restricted use of a vehicle, it makes sense that the Minister can act quickly. It is important for the Left to make it quite clear that traffic selfishness must be stopped, and selfishness is also understood by people's own safety. That is why we will be in favour of increasing road safety at all times. That is also why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105101546	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105101600	The bill contains a few different elements. The first concerns requirements for the use of a crash helmet if you drive on tricycles or some four-wheel vehicles without a cabin. What we are doing here with the initiative of the Minister of Transport is legislation on the logic of guinea fowl. It is totally absurd that you can drive around on an ATV, registered with license plates on the highway with it in principle and then you should not wear a crash helmet. On the other hand, the rest of us are going to have to pay if people turn to lirties and end up in a 24-hour institution because of brain damage. That is what often happens when people do not behave properly in traffic, that is to say that it costs our health apparatus very much, and that is why it is logical for guinea fowls that you should of course wear a crash helmet when you drive a tricycle or a four-wheel ATV, for example, without a cabin. There has not been any legislation on this until now, which is why I would, of course, like to commend the Minister for doing so. In the Danish People's Party we think it makes sense to use a crash helmet on all types of vehicles where there is a clear and obvious risk of injury. So we support that. The second part is about extending the exception of police and rescue services in relation to the use of telecommunications equipment while driving. Here it changes so that the derogation will be wider in the future and includes new technologies that have emerged since the legislation that is in force today was implemented. This is what we in the Danish People's Party think makes a great deal of sense, so it is not the law that should set the pace for smart ways of coming after criminals, for example in the traffic. No, it is the case that the technological tools that are available to our officers and authorities should of course also be able to be handled. So the bill is quite reasonable, and the Danish People's Party naturally supports the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105101818	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105101832	Like the previous rapporteurs, the Radical Left naturally supports the proposal and, of course, there must be a duty to wear a helmet when driving a motorcycle-like vehicle. So thank you to the Minister for putting forward this proposal, which we think is quite natural to support. I should like to welcome the Socialist People's Party and say that they also support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105101854	Thank you to the rapporteur. We can then move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105101904	Thank you. Our rapporteur is still absent, so that is why I am presenting the views and I can inform you that the Enhedslisten supports the proposal. We think it makes sense to extend the use of the helmet to include the three-wheeled and open four-wheeled vehicles. It's also common sense when we know how many head injuries are avoided with a crash helmet I think it's 70%. Or something around there. So that's amazing. With regard to the increased use of handheld equipment by the police, it would be desirable to have an ex-post evaluation of whether there have been various types of accidents or the like. And I understand a great deal of it, but I just don't understand it. However, we will be able to clarify this in the course of the committee's proceedings. I would just like to add that the last part, namely the extension of the right to prohibit various forms of transport and such things, is also in order from the point of view of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102006	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102021	I can tell you that we also support the bill. I feel a little difficult myself with all the laws we make to protect citizens from their own behaviour. However, I would say that there must also be some consistency in the way in which the legislation is designed and, since there are now instructions to use crash helmets in other contexts, there must be that in this situation too. And we also think that there has been a reasonable argument as to why the police should have some extended opportunities to operate some equipment in their vehicles, and we can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102058	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We then proceed to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102116	Now it should not be so boring that we all agree. As you well know from previous legislative proposals, we in the New Citizens' Party, as a previous speaker quite rightly said here, believe that it is quite common sense that if you drive, you also wear a crash helmet. That is why we also believe that the Danes remember the crash helmet and that we do not need to legislate on it. As a previous speaker also said, many of these three- and four-wheeled people are being used in fields etc., and we see no reason to make further legislation on something that we basically think the Danes can find out for themselves. On the other hand, there is that part of the bill that applies to the rescue vehicles and so on. We can support this, which is why we would naturally want the bill to be split up. Otherwise we will have to vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102215	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102218	Thank you. I'm just a little puzzled. You can travel around in reality in the Danish summer country. I, for example, held. one week's summer vacation in the great circle of the rapporteur. There I saw several ATVs driving where the driver wasn't wearing a crash helmet. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: has the rapporteur never seen an ATV driver drive without a crash helmet?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102244	Yes, I do. I have seen plenty of Danes doing something that was not necessarily very conducive to their own safety or to their own health for that matter. That is why I do not necessarily believe that we should go in and start to legislate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102259	Thomas Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102301	But that is precisely what the rapporteur says in his rapporteur's speech, that is to say that we expect people to put on this helmet, even of their own free will. But now the rapporteur stands and confirms me that the rapporteur has actually seen people who did not live up to the hopes of the rapporteur and they simply drove around without a crash helmet. And as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said earlier: if you have a road accident, if you drive without a crash helmet, then it can also be a burden on society, in addition to the obvious burden on the individual, in relation to the damage you incur, but it is also an economic society that is really, very much to blame. Would the rapporteur's party not like to contribute to our having proper rules in this area so that we do not have any increased costs for the individual and for society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102346	I think this debate shows a very clear and clear difference and thank goodness for the Social Democracy and New Citizens. In other words, we are not a party either which believes that, because it is bad for one's health, and that if one, for example, thinks that it is bad for one's health. smokes and can be hospitalized with some lifestyle diseases and everything else, so must go in and legislate that people should not smoke or that it should be more expensive. We haven't been a part of that. It's kind of the same with this. I mean, we should not make more paternal legislation. We have thus been confident that people can do it themselves and that, moreover, they are aware of the consequences of it if they choose to do so. And that is the case in many areas. By the way, I myself was in North Jutland this summer and actually drove on ATV with my children, and we were wearing a crash helmet, because we thought it was probably very sensible. However, I do not think there is any reason to introduce more legislation in this area, more restrictions. I think it is time that we in general at Christiansborg have more confidence in the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102451	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, we go further, and then it is the Minister for Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102502	Thank you, President, and thank you for the parties' support for the proposal. As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party put it, it is logic for guinea fowl, and the rapporteur even praised the Minister for bringing forward the bill. It's not every day you experience it. So, of course, I also accept that and the general statements of support. The Enhedslisten mentioned that there were questions concerning the part of the draft law dealing with telecommunications equipment in the police, and it is of course noted that such issues will arise. In general, we are following the development of accidents in accident statistics, etc., and this will of course also be done in relation to this area. There's a special attention on the police driving at all. You are very often in some sharp situations, especially when you drive out of the car faster than the normal speed limit, so there is special attention to police driving at all. But, of course, we answer the questions that are in relation to it. I understand from New Citizens that you do not support the part about the crash helmet. Of course, you are welcome to say so. I am not immediately inclined to divide the bill, but we must take that into account in the further process. Of course, it is also the case, as the Socialist rapporteur has also said, that it is quite common to see that there are ATVs being conducted without the use of a crash helmet, and that is of course also why it has come to our attention in the first place that there is a risk here. Of course, one can take the view in principle that there should be no legislation whatsoever. Then, of course, one can ask a little rhetorical whether it means abolishing the presence of airbags in cars, that there are seat belts in cars, that you have speed limits on the roads and such things, because if it is still the case that everyone is being completely rational and wise, then there need be no restrictions on it. This is not a view which I support, nor is it something supported by professional knowledge. On the contrary, there are ongoing assessments by the Road Safety Commission, which also has representatives of the Danish Parliament, of how to ensure as good a road safety as possible, as few people as possible get hurt in traffic. We also have the Council for Safe Transport, which is working on both campaigning and road safety analysis. It is an area where we have to say that we in Denmark are in the world elite in relation to ensuring as few serious accidents as possible. It is clear that we still have too many people who are seriously injured or dying in road accidents in Denmark, and therefore it is not the case that we can put fly bones in the knowledge that we have done enough. But it has to be said that if we relax too much on road safety, we risk that this will cost lives, hospitalizations and therefore also cost society dearly. With the excellent indications that have been made by the parties' rapporteurs and also the review of the draft law, I do not want to say any further than that, just to say that I am very pleased with the very broad support that has been given to the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102916	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102932	The debate is open. Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105102950	Thank you for the floor. Today is a very good day for equality. Today, we are going to deal first with a legislative proposal aimed at ensuring equal treatment for children and young people, individual income escalation of child and young people's benefits and equal sharing of the supplementary green cheque. Equal treatment for children and young people is part of the agreement on a single family law system back from 2018 between the then government and all other parties in the Folketing. As it is now, children's and young people's benefits have, as a rule, been paid to the child's mother, and it is not exactly possible to call that equality, and it is a rule that dates back to 1987 that it is time for us to update. The history of equality in Denmark is long, and with this bill we are taking another step in the right direction. We do this by proposing that child and young people's benefits should, as a starting point, be shared equally between parents who have joint custody, and that is to say, whether or not parents are roommates, and at the same time have a sharing arrangement with the child. With this proposal, we ensure that parents are treated equally in relation to child and youth benefits and that more account is taken of today's family patterns. Non-bodied custody holders may agree that the entire benefit must be paid to one custody holder. In addition, the benefit may, on request, be paid to one of the custody holders if a court decision or settlement provides that the child must be at least 9 out of 11 days with one of the custody holders. In this way, we ensure that the starting point is equality, but that at the same time consideration is given to custody holders who find it difficult to reach agreement. And, of course, at the same time, there is room for those authorities who can cooperate and agree on a different distribution to be able to do so. The agreement also provides for a transitional arrangement. The purpose of the transitional scheme is to take account of the fact that part-family families, which are basically geared to the payment of the benefit to one parent, can organise their economy in accordance with the new scheme. The bill also alters another discrimination. Today, the income of both spouses is taken into account when calculating income escalation of child and youth benefits, while for unmarried couples the income of the beneficiary is calculated only on the basis of the income of the beneficiary. With this bill, child and youth benefits are calculated on the basis of the individual's income. Finally, the additional green check is also proposed as an equal part. Today it is paid as a starting point to the child's mother, but here too we want an equal share between parents. The proposal, which we are dealing with here today, has largely been welcomed by the consultation parties. We are pleased about this, because we believe it is time for legislation to reflect today's Denmark, where equality is one of our fundamental values. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105103300	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see that there is any desire for short remarks. That's why we're moving on, and if I haven't missed anything, then we've come to sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105103328	Thank you. The background to the bill is the agreement on a comprehensive family law system, which all parties entered into before the last parliamentary elections, and this is about the payment of child and youth benefits. Today, it is the case that, as a starting point, they are paid to the mother, and it is also true, even though there is a 7-7 scheme in which the child is as much with the danger, and the experience has often been that it can give rise to confrontations, but it has also been part of the debate that it was a challenge in terms of equality, as the Socialists have already mentioned. In future, parents will have to receive half each, and that is whether they are roommates or not, and at the same time have a sharing arrangement for the child. There has been the assessment that all those who do not have a problem can live with sharing the benefit while at the same time it is for all those who have conflicts and cannot together, and then it is good that it is now being resolved. There is also another element in the agreement, and this is about an income reduction of the benefit. In future it will happen individually, and it is a good thing, as it has been a problem for many years, that it has hit awkwardly. In fact, it has been a problem as far back as the 2012 tax reform. Let me end by giving you an example of how crazy this whole thing is. If a man, for example... Makes 900,000 kroner. and a woman 300,000 kroner, they will be set off against the 200,000 kroner that the man earns over the 700,000 kroner.; they will be reduced by DKK 4,000. On the other hand, if they are not married, there will be no set-off simply because it is the man who earns the money. On the other hand, if it had been the woman, they would have been set off. It is illogical and it is legislation that we cannot actually be familiar with, and that is why it is good that it is now being changed. Therefore, the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105103523	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we now move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105103535	Thank you. Today we are discussing the part of the Danish Parliament's broad agreement on a comprehensive family law system from 2018, the overall objective of which is to make the system more flexible and fair, so that it is better suited to the variety of family patterns we see today, and the bill implements the part of the agreement that concerns new payment rules for child and youth benefits. Parents with joint parental responsibility will in future receive half of the child and youth benefits each, regardless of whether they are roommates or not. If there is only one parenting authority, the entire child and youth allowance must be paid to the parent. If the parents are divorced or separated, the equivalence may be waived if they agree and in cases where the child lives mainly only with one. As a result of the new payment rules, the income escalation is also proposed, so that the escalation should be based on the individual income ratio of the beneficiary. The same rules will then apply to married and unmarried couples, and that is very good. The new payment rules will ensure that custody holders are treated equally in relation to the payment of child and youth benefits and that the payment rules take more account of today's family patterns. At the same time, the model takes into account if the child lives mainly with one of the custody holders. Then we will also have a transitional arrangement whereby already divorced families can become part of the scheme by consensus. As a radical, it is a pleasure today to deal with the draft law on equal treatment for children and young people. It is a solid step towards more equality and greater fairness for Danish families who have long sought modernisation of the system. So, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105103709	There are no brief comments. So we can thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105103717	Thank you. From an equal opportunities perspective, it seems to me quite intuitive that child and youth benefits should be shared equally between parents with joint custody, and therefore, of course, the SF supports the bill, which I think is a very important step towards equality in the home. This proposal will support the important premise that parents are equal, just as it is for the child's good when both parents take responsibility for the child's care and support. Today, fortunately, the vast majority of children, whether their parents are roommates or living separately, experience that both share in the child's life, but we can still do much more to push for father to feel like an equal parent. Unfortunately, there is still a perception that mother is the primary caregiver for the child, and that is really a pity. It's old-fashioned, but luckily, we'll do something about it and move on with this bill. At the same time, sharing child and youth benefits can reduce the conflict between parents living separately, and less conflict will be beneficial to children at any time. However, there may be important considerations and exceptions to the draft law. There may be good reasoning that the majority of the child's child's and young child's benefit is due to one parent if the child has more than half the time, even if parental authority is shared. In that case, the majority of the allowance and the cost of the child is with one parent, and therefore there must be exceptions if a court settlement or settlement provides that the child is primarily living with one parent. But, of course, the starting point must be a small distribution, and with these comments I can say that the SF naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105103857	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105103904	This proposal is a necessary modernisation of legislation in the field of equal opportunities, and Enhedslisten was included in the agreement on a single family law system, where the element on equal treatment for children and young people as well as the supplementary green cheque was also included. We therefore support the bill, of course, and we are pleased that, compared to the original legislative proposal, which came shortly before the elections in 2019, last year, a transitional regime has been established so that non-combatants can continue on the current regime, if that is what they want. Overall, Enhedslisten can, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105103939	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105103949	I myself became a father five months ago, and at one point my fiancé mentions to me that there has been a child's check, and then I thought that I haven't heard anything about it, and then I find out that it has gone into her account automatically, and I wonder why it is that way. I do not agree with what the SF rapporteur said earlier that it is unnatural that the mother is the primary caregiver. I think that is how it is in most situations, at least at home, but in financial terms there is no doubt that parents contribute equally to the provision of the child, and in this situation, of course, it seems unreasonable that the money goes to the mother as if financial responsibility is her own. I also talked to a group member here about this bill, and she told me that her husband had never known that she was getting these children's money. So one can obviously go for many years without knowing what the situation is, but that is being corrected now, and I think there is common sense and reasonableness in it. And I am actually pleased that here in the Folketing today we are taking a step which is about equality in favour of men, so that equality is not always just about doing something for women. So thank you for that. We strongly support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105104118	There is a brief comment on Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105104120	Thank you. It was really most to correct and just hear the rapporteur if he does not agree, because it sounds like we should like the fathers to feel more like equal parents in relation to the child than is the case today, and that this is a step towards it, while at the same time we see that many more men take responsibility for the child's life at an enormous early age, and that is what I meant by this with the primary caregiver: that now with this proposal men are moving in the direction of having more equal relationships as parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105104155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105104156	It's not on our agenda that with this bill we're going to change the parent roles and those such close relationships that are between parents and children. But we want to correct the absurdity that exists. Of course, parents share financial responsibility, and then we also believe that financial benefits should follow that distribution and be equal to mother and father.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105104221	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we now move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105104238	I couldn't help but sit and laugh a little down in my seat over some of that, like, sir. Rasmus Jarlov said, and that's about the fact that someone who apparently kept it a secret from his spouse received these child benefits. I guess there's been a bit of an awkward mood over dinner that night. Anyway, joke aside! This is a really good bill. It makes very good sense that the money is, of course, paid equally to both parents when you receive this child and young people benefit, as it is called, whether they are roommates or not, but of course both have custody. So, of course, New Citizen backs up on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105104322	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we now move on to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105104333	Thank you for the floor. This bill is a re-submission of Bill No. L 224 presented by former tax minister from Left Karsten Lauritzen. This is a good proposal, which we still fully support in the Left, because family patterns have changed, and this must of course be reflected in our legislation. Today, both parents take an active part in children's upbringing, where both mother and father are important. Therefore, the state should not, of course, favour the mother or the father when the child and young person's allowance, known as the child's check, is to be paid out. Unfortunately, however, we are doing so today, when in the vast majority of cases the children's check is paid to the mother. It's time for mothers and fathers to be equal in this area. This is what we do with the bill, where parents with joint custody in the future will receive half of the children's check each. At the same time, we ensure that the individual family can adapt as it sees fit, since parents can also choose that the entire benefit should be paid to one. That is both fair and reasonable. However, the bill improves not only the equality between mother and father, but also between married and unmarried couples, because the bill also ensures that the children's cheque and the supplementary green cheque are paid after the same individual income escalation. It is also fair and sensible. In addition, the draft law provides for a slight adjustment compared to the original draft law, L 224. With the new adjustments, we will ensure, among other things, that families who have already adapted to the rules in force will have a transitional period. We support that in the Left. With those words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105104515	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105104526	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for the very positive reception of the bill. After all, the bill is part of the implementation of the agreement on a single family justice system, and the bill is a re-submission of the bill we had, which was called L 224 and which was tabled as early as spring 2019 but which, after all, was cancelled as a result of the discharge of the election to the Folketing. The proposal for a law, as was recently advocated here during the speech by the rapporteur of the Left, has been slightly updated and adjusted and now provides for a transitional regime, which I shall come back to a little later. There is no change in the fact that the draft law is first and foremost important for the sake of equality between parents. The current rules simply do not reflect the reality and family patterns that exist today. According to the rules in force, in the vast majority of cases, child and youth benefits are paid to the mother. In fact, this has been the case since 1987, when child benefit, as it was then called, was introduced. The rules have therefore rightly been criticised in the light of what we have also discussed today, namely an equal opportunities perspective. That is why the time has come to introduce more and more modern rules that take into account the many different ways in which family life is now organised. On the one hand, we must move away from the automatic payout to the mother and, on the other hand, there must be more choice of who the payout is to be made to. And that is exactly what we are achieving with the legislative proposal that has now been put forward. The children's and young people's benefit must be shared between parents, but at the same time, if they agree, parents will have the opportunity to choose to pay the benefit to one of the parents. And if the parents cannot agree, one parent can receive the full benefit if, according to a cooperation agreement, the child must be at least 9 out of 14 days with him. In this way, parents can adapt very much as they wish, but at the same time also take into account cases where they cannot reach agreement. Concern was expressed in connection with the previous draft law that the divided families, which have adapted to the rules in force, should be included in the equal treatment. These families have adapted their finances accordingly, and one parent then receives the whole benefit alone. We are now responding to this concern with the proposed transitional regime. And with the transitional scheme, the child and young people's benefit will, as a rule, continue to be paid to the parent receiving the benefit before the new rules are introduced. However, the transitional arrangements will also allow the benefit to be granted in certain cases on an equal footing between both parents or to be paid to the other parent. The transitional arrangements thus benefit the divided families who have adapted to the rules in force. However, it also ensures that children's and young people's benefits are equally distributed or paid to the other parent if the conditions relating to the child change. The draft law also puts an end to another discrimination: the difference between the income escalation of child and youth benefits for spouses and unmarried couples respectively. Today, the income escalation for spouses is to be calculated on the basis of the income of both parties, while for the unmarried couple the income of the beneficiaries is to be calculated only on the basis of the income of the beneficiaries. There has rightly been criticism of this and this discrimination on the grounds of administrative considerations. As a consequence of this, it is now proposed to equalise child and young people's benefits, and then it is also proposed to change the income escalation so that it is calculated on the basis of the individual recipient's income. I am glad that in this way, at the same time, we will end the discrimination which has also been in the system today between married and unmarried cohabitants. So we're gonna end this. In those words, I would like to thank you for receiving the bill and, of course, I look forward to a good and constructive discussion of the matter in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105019	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105032	The debate is open. Mrs Tanja Larsson as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105102	Thank you. The bill is about attacks with objects against people in public service becoming an independent article in the criminal code and the penalty being increased by one third compared to the current level of punishment. I've taken over this bill from the Social Democrats' Legal Rapporteur, sir. Jeppe Bruus, who unfortunately has been infected with the corona virus. I would like to thank the parties of the Folketing and the Bureau for the fact that, despite this difficult and sudden situation, we can nevertheless deal with the draft law. In view of the particular situation, I would ask the Parliament's understanding that resolving questions to the bill can be answered during the committee procedure. The reason for the bill is that around New Year's last year we saw several incidents in which police and emergency personnel were attacked with fireworks while they were doing their work. Subsequently, we have seen several examples of gangs and groupings using rocks and fireworks to keep officials out of certain residential areas. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. We should not prevent police, ambulance drivers or others from doing their job, and those who look after us all should not be put at risk at their work. It creates insecurity, it can endanger the lives of other people, and it must be stopped. Therefore, the Government proposes to insert a separate provision into the Criminal Code, § 119b, on attacks with objects on persons in public service. At the same time, the penalty is proposed to be increased by one third. It must make it quite clear that this behaviour is unacceptable and it must ensure that the level of punishment reflects the danger to public employees by the totally unacceptable behaviour. At the same time, we will allow the courts to expel foreign nationals who have violated the new provision of the penal code and have attacked public employees with fireworks, caste guns and the like. We have also seen examples of ordinary, random citizens being attacked with fireworks or stone throws. Of course, that is not acceptable. Therefore, the government also proposes that the penalty for not complying with section 252 of the Penal Code on the risk of other people's lives or disability be increased by one third if it has been carried out with an object. You have to be able to travel safely in Denmark. We cannot and will not accept creating insecurity and endangering the lives of others. This is unacceptable and, if you do so, it must trigger an appropriate punishment. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that this bill will ensure it, and we look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105358	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we can go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105409	Thank you. The proposal we are debating today has basically its popular origin in what happened last New Year's Eve, where fireworks were fired in several places, among others. Against the alert. Something needs to be done about that. Not enough has been done about this in the past. Hopefully, we will make that right here. A separate provision is introduced into section 119b of the Criminal Code. In isolation, it doesn't help much, but it does have the signal value that this is something we look at very, very seriously. In our opinion, however, what is helping in the Left is to increase the penalty for the attacks on preparedness that are taking place. I understand that in the government proposal it is increased by one third. I would ask the government to clarify a little more what one third means, because what is the normal punishment in these cases? That's really what counts. According to section 119, we have a penalty of 8 years in prison and, as with all other penal provisions, it is quite crazy what gap there is between penalties and actually sentenced to punishment. So let us be clear about what we are talking about. What can we expect will be the normal punishment after this proposal by attacking the alert? And that is exactly the same question when civilians are being attacked. In this case, it will be section 245 on gross violence that we are talking about. There's a six-year prison sentence. Where are we when civilians are attacked with fireworks? We would also like clarification on this point. So the relationship between penalties and penalties is something that, in the view of the Left at least, we need to focus on and focus more on. That is why, in future, a question will be consistent on our part: what are the courts actually judging in the normal cases, if I may say so? It should, of course, be a punishment which has a certain preventive effect, so that others refrain from similar crimes. In conclusion, I should like to ask whether the Minister has any idea how many more are expected to be convicted in the future, the preventive effect and so on. If the Minister for Temporary Affairs does not have it, it may of course be that we can have it clarified on a later occasion during a later reading. But summa summarum I can say that in every respect the Left can support the proposal, although we have the feeling that the normal punishments that the Minister is coming and explaining are in the low end and we would like to see them increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105704	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105707	Thank you. And thank you for the excellent rapporteur's speech by the Left here. I would just like to ask a question because I understand that the Left, I believe, like the Danish People's Party, is asking some questions to the government about this case and this bill. I guess so, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen thinks of here, is that the punishment that appears to be given in these cases is very, very mild, and if the government then puts one third on top, yes, then it may still be very mild. And if you look at the cases that were after all the riots around New Year, it is the case that there were 80 charges and 13 cases that were specifically about the paragraph that we are focusing on here. In only two of the cases, it gave birth to unconditional prison. In all the other cases there were suspended prison sentences. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether this is satisfactory and whether the Left will support a minimum sentence of one year in prison for firing fireworks against other people and thus putting them at great risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105813	I don't know the specific cases, but if it's a goose-eye traditional case, trying deliberately to fire fireworks against others, then it sounds quite disgraceful with the punishments that Mr. Peter Skaarup explained which I certainly have no reason to doubt and that one can get away with it on that basis. To Peter Skaarup's question of whether we will be involved in higher penalties: yes, we would like to, if so, as Mr. Peter Skaarup explains is the penalty level. In the view of the Left, we must not impose minimum penalties; there must still be room for the courts to be able to decide on the circumstances of each specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105855	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105856	We can discuss this if the courts can always deal with it. The fact is that there is a penalty of 8 years in prison in these cases, but that is to say, we can see that there are very, very short sentences and in most cases conditional sentences. So I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether it is good enough or whether it does not call for us from the Folketing to mark that we want a certain bottom, a certain minimum for the punishment it gives. It is therefore very upsetting for people, for example. around New Year's time that people get fired directly against people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105937	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105105939	As I said, it is punishment that I cannot sympathize with at all. In my view, they have no preventive effect. That is why we need to increase the penalty, and in the view of the Left we do so by adopting normal penalties here. That is why I also ask the Minister for Justice what the penalties are in this particular case. We should not rob the courts of their ability to make an individual assessment of each case. But I can only give Mr. Peter Skaarup is right that it is the Folketing that decides the penalties, and we do not do so without reason. So, yeah, something needs to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105110020	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105110033	Thank you. The bill we are discussing today is that the government announces that it will tighten the law for those who deliberately harm other people. When you read down the bill here and you go into detail about the things that lie in the draft law, the question is whether you can actually talk there about a real tightening up of importance to the cases we are talking about here. We are talking about cases where fireworks of direct fire to other people have been fired. We saw it around New Year's time, and we can now see that the government will tighten up, but how much you want to tighten up is a big question that I think we can ask when we deal with this bill. What the government wants to do is to add a third on top of an already almost insignificant penalty in these cases. We can see in practice, with the cases that have been settled since New Year's, that some very, very mild penalties have been given. The current penalty framework, we should bear in mind, is therefore 8 years in prison, and that is probably very fine. What is then less fine is that, despite this relatively high criminal framework, the courts are not taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the criminal framework. We all remember the inferno of New Year's fireworks around the happy New Year's anniversary of 2019. You'd almost think you were somewhere in the Middle East when you look at the way it was going. There was virtually a state of emergency in certain parts of Nørrebro and elsewhere. It was there, and the fact was that there were people, people with children, families who did not dare to venture out around our country because they were fired directly against other people, and there was of course a great risk of being hit. What happened was, and that's what we've been looking at in the Danish People's Party, that since these riots, 80 charges were filed, 13 of which were violations of section 252 of the Criminal Code, which dealt with the threat of violence. It's on the basis of these events that we're dealing with this bill, L 23. Now the punishments must be tightened, says the government. Of the 13 cases, only 2 triggered unconditional imprisonment. The rest ended up with either conditional sentences or with those concerned being too young to be punished. There we have another reason to reduce the age of crime. We can then hopefully discuss this at another time here in the Folketing. The Danish People's Party would like to see the criminal low age reduced, because we simply have to be able to intervene much earlier in the face of those who do not want to understand our legislation and do not want to conform to it. The person who received the most severe punishment, where it was a bomb pipe deliberately aimed at a couple in which one of them was injured, was punished after the new year of 60 days in jail. Yeah, and then the guy who fired this bomb tube was even punished for five previous incidents of perilous crime. Seriously, Parliament, minister, government! 60 days in prison when you have been convicted five times in the past of dangerous personal crime with a penalty of 8 years in prison? I mean, I'm speechless. I am stunned that we accept conditions where people behave completely insanely and go directly after other people with their fireworks. We give a sentence of 60 days in prison when you have previously been a violent criminal as a citizen here in Denmark. I do not understand anything of that, and I hope that the government will look at this matter on the basis that we are getting these things tightened up thoroughly. The remaining sentences that we have looked at were, as I have said, suspended sentences from prison. But the fact is that while you were previously given a suspended sentence of 30 days in jail, you are now being sentenced to 40 days in jail, because that is what the government wants to add: about a third. Then government! It's quite simply too lax. Should we believe that it seems to completely indifferent to people who are upset by each other and point their dangerous bomb tubes at various rescue workers and civil citizens to increase punishment as a conditional sentence by one third on the relatively mild sentence imposed? Honestly, I don't believe it. Does the Minister and the Government, and I hope the Minister will reply to this Parliament today during the debate, really believe that a third of the very, very mild sentences, which do not fill the penalty at all, will help anything at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105110546	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105110608	Thank you for that, President. The draft law here contains, firstly, a proposal to introduce a separate provision on attacks with objects on persons acting in public service or office, including police and preparedness. It is deeply unacceptable to throw stones at, for example. ambulance staff must, of course, be safe in their work. The proposal does not involve neo-criminalisation, which means that it is, of course, illegal today to commit this kind of crime, throwing stones at ambulance staff or other public servants. In future, therefore, there will be a clause on violence and threats, on violence against people in public service, and now also a paragraph where attacks with objects are specifically mentioned. The penalties are to be increased by one third compared with what has now been practiced by the courts in connection with this type of infringement. Secondly, it is proposed to tighten the penalty for causing immediate danger to someone's life or ability by throwing or firing objects against individuals under section 252 of the Penal Code. 1. It is against the background of the quite unacceptable behaviour we have seen, throwing fireworks at private individuals, which is deeply reprehensible and a very, very dangerous situation to create. What is apparent here is that today's penalty is between 10 and 60 days in prison, and it is then proposed to increase it by one third. That means that what previously gave 30 days in jail is now going to 40 days in jail. It is possible to discuss whether this type of punishment with one third is what is moving something in relation to the big picture, but we are pleased that the draft law has also highlighted the prevention part, which is very important, and since there are no concerns expressed in the consultation answers about parts of the bill, we support it, but we also want to encourage the government to move forward when increasing the penalty mass, as is done here, also to find funding for criminal justice, so that they do not simply impose burdens and make working conditions worse. That is why we must call for this kind of initiative to be financed, as it will place a burden on the criminal services.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105110847	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105110910	I just stepped in as rapporteur at the last minute, so I'm just reading the speech out loud and you're warned! It was violent what we witnessed about New Year's last year at Nørrebro, where dangerous fireworks were thrown after police and preparedness and against random passers-bys. On the television photos it almost looked like street games, and I understand that the local area was insecure to travel in. That is why, of course, it is also appropriate to tighten up the penalties for attacks by objects against, for example. police and preparedness or to cause danger to those who happen to be in a place. But the hand on the heart: we know that it is not the punishment that will make the difference. That is why it is good that the Minister also recognises in the draft law that punishments cannot stand alone, but that it also takes preventive action to stop such incidents. It is mentioned, for example, that local police should cooperate with local actors, and especially young people in the area, to prevent violent incidents. And we also saw how that strategy worked on Nørrebro when the police went into the case, knocked on the door of the families and explained to them the seriousness of the actions. I therefore think it is important that we strengthen the local police force, and we are also talking about this in the police negotiations right now. In this context, it is absolutely necessary, since it is now one of the crunches of the government's initiative, that we also train the local officers for the task, but there we have to have a more detailed discussion in the negotiations on how this is going to happen. Finally, a little bit of an uproar about something that was about to get the SF to say no to this proposal. Criminal services will not be compensated for their additional costs for longer penalties. After all, the police department is already tearing up tasks and inmates, and the employees are about to kill themselves in order to solve the problems. Therefore, we simply cannot be aware to say once again that they have to do this within the framework. The government already estimates that a little of the extra punishment that is now plaguing criminal justice can be attributed to unfunded punishments. So I really think the government should think about it here. In the committee's examination of the proposal, we would like to ask whether the government is going to set aside money for it. However, the content of the proposal can be supported, and that is why we are going to support it overall.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111123	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111128	Thank you to the SF's rapporteur for the speech here. I heard SF said it was good to have this tightening up. But doesn't SF also agree that it's really a very porous tightening? Because if we look at today's level, we cannot imagine a different level after the New Year's riots than that we give a conditional sentence, i.e. no prison sentence. Is that really good enough for SF? Is it really good enough for the SF that, rather than having a suspended sentence of 30 days in jail, a conditional sentence of 40 days in jail is now being given for shooting fireworks directly after rescuers?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111210	I find it difficult to assess exactly what is good enough • I am usually not the rapporteur in this area, and our rapporteur, as you know, is in isolation. I believe that this proposal goes some way, and we support it. And then we'll see what works. However, as I also said in the speech, we are very convinced that it is not only punishment that works, but also these preventive measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111231	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111241	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we do everything in our power to ensure a secure environment for those people who go to work every day and undertake vital social tasks. That is why, like all the other rapporteurs, I would like to start by stressing that I consider it totally unacceptable that people on public service should be attacked when they are at work. Neither does firing fireworks nor throwing objects at other people, which is a danger to the lives and ability of those people. This kind of thing really needs to be stopped, and I think it is important that we have a discussion on how. I think we can all remember the days up to Christmas and New Year's last year, when there was trouble with fireworks on Nørrebro, on West Zealand and on West Denmark. There is no doubt that we need to take action to stop the • question is just how we do it. After all, the government is proposing that the penalty should be tightened up and, in the opening remarks to the bill, the Ministry of Justice stresses that the problem should not be solved by the sharpened penalties alone; preventive measures must also be focused on. And I am pleased to see that the government and the Ministry of Justice have opened their eyes to the importance of preventive work. It is only a pity that the draft law is not about preventive work; that it is only something that has just become room for in the introduction, I think is a pity. In the response from the Crime Prevention Council, they stress precisely that we must take preventive action. For, as they write: "Crime arises in an interaction between internal and external factors, and we as a society have the opportunity to influence them through prevention. I believe, and this is what Enhedslisten thinks, that we should do by strengthening local cooperation with street planners, with clubs and with residential social workers. Because we know from all research in this area that this is something that works. That is why I fully agree with the Crime Prevention Council, which, in its response to the hearing, proposes that we strengthen our efforts and ensure good leisure opportunities with competent staff. I understand that this is a slightly more boring solution, that is to say that we are doing something long-term; that we are doing the preventive work. I understand that it is much easier to say: now we are just raising the penalty. I just don't believe that it works, and what I'm preoccupied with especially as someone who lives at Nørrebro is that we do something here that works. And I do not think that punishments do that. I believe that what will work is to strengthen preventive action. There are plenty of police, social workers, teachers, educators and others who make a huge effort every day to try to prevent children and young people from growing up with crime and to prevent children and young people from ending up in crime. They need clear political support from this, they need resources for the long-term relationship work. When young people are imprisoned, the problem is removed briefly, but with prisons filled to the breaking point and lack of prison officers, young people do not get out as better citizens. There is no time for rehabilitation. Instead, they come out powerless, indebted and are, at worst, more criminal than when they were put in prisons in the first place. So if the government means it when they tell us that we need to create more security in society, why doesn't the government rely on some things that have a proven effect on reducing crime? And if the government really wants to create a secure environment and security for the public employees, why not secure more resources for preventive work and also more resources for psychiatry, which has great challenges in ensuring the safety of staff, such as: In their hearing answer, the FOA points out? And why do we not ensure more colleagues for the police officers who work on the street and more colleagues both for the police officers who are on the alert, but also for the police officers who are in our near and local police? In fact, I think that is where we can make the greatest difference in relation to, for example. to prevent fireworks being fired at public employees at work or fireworks fired at passers-bys. I think we all agree that this should stop. I think one way to do that is to secure more colleagues. Finally, I would just like to point out, like the Radical Left and the SF, that here we park a bill at the Department of Criminal Services, and we simply cannot afford that. And in the Enhedslisten, we are also going to ask questions about this in order to ensure that there is some money in the criminal services, or that at least consideration is given to how they are going to do this task when the penalties are being tightened up, and that is why we have not yet taken a final position on the bill. We will do so when we get the answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111742	There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111746	Thanks for the speech. I just wanted to ask Mrs. Rosa Lund something. If Mrs. Rosa Lund now went to another country and has Danish background, that is to say coming to a foreign country and then there has foreign background, is the first thing that Mrs. Rosa Lund will do, then going out and firing fireworks off against people, right up into their faces, or teaching her children to fire fireworks directly into people's faces? Is this the first thing that Mrs Rosa Lund will do, or what will Mrs Rosa Lund raise her children for?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111822	I can assure you, sir. Peter Skaarup for that I would never do, either in Denmark, or if I went to another country. First of all, I'm extremely afraid of fireworks. Secondly, I think that you should behave properly whether you are in the country in which you were born and raised or whether you are a guest in another country. I think that must be the starting point that we all always have, that is, that we make room for our fellow human beings and that we behave properly. And when it comes specifically to fireworks, I personally believe that it should in fact only be legal to fire it on New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111850	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111853	Thank you. Now I would just like to say to Mrs Rosa Lund that there were 2-3 days around New Year's time in 2019 when we experienced the situation that mainly boys with immigrant background fired fireworks of direct up against other people. We can almost all remember the cyclist driving along, I think it was Nørrebrogade, and get hit by a rocket. So, does Mrs Rosa Lund not see that there is a huge cultural problem here if we do not understand or want to understand our legislation? And isn't there a need for us to tighten the penalties? It should not be the case that we say zero plus a third that is really what the government is doing here but we have to say much harder penalties to those who just don't want to follow Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111936	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105111939	I remember very clearly the events up to New Year's in 2019. Fireworks were also fired off inside a bus. This is completely out of place; I think everyone agrees on that. I find it interesting that Mr. Peter Skaarup knows both the background and the citizenship of the people who did it. Then I'm gonna have to sit down, sir. Peter Skaarup on some other information than I do. But I feel that way, sir. Peter Skaarup, that no matter where you come from, what skin color you have, or what you believe in, you must at least believe that you have to behave properly and make room for your fellow human beings. As I said, I'm interested in how we're gonna stop this, but I don't think we're gonna stop it by just throwing out one high sentence after another. That doesn't have any effect, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112018	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112027	I understand from Mrs Rosa Lund that Enhedslisten does not believe that punishment works against people who fire fireworks after others. This surprises me a little, because in some situations the Enhedslisten believes that punishment works, for example. to banks or others that Enhedslisten does not like. But here, Enhedslisten believes that punishment does not work. Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112049	Because, like the Crime Prevention Council, we are absolutely convinced that this will not have a preventive effect. When it saw, for example. If we come to our banks, we are convinced that this will have a preventive effect. In the same way, in the Enhedslisten, we have also helped to increase the penalty for sharing insulting images, firstly because we thought that the penalty was too low, and secondly we were and are convinced that the fact that the whole parliament has raised the penalty to four years will actually have a preventive effect. That's what matters to us, sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112116	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112120	I understood the point of view, namely that it does not mean that it will have an effect. I ask why Enhedslisten doesn't think it will have an effect to punish people who are firing fireworks in the minds of others when Enhedslisten in other situations... like the Conservative People's Party... believes that punishment has an effect on scaring people from having a behavior that is unacceptable to our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112146	The reason why we do not believe that raising the penalty would have a preventive effect is that it is already illegal in advance. Well, there's already a punishment. That's one. The second is that what we know to be preventive is what the risk of being taken is, and that is why I spent much of my speech saying that what we actually think will work in this situation is to hire some more policemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112205	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112221	The pictures we saw in December 2019 from among others. Nørrebro, where antisocial young men fired fireworks after innocents, was totally unacceptable, and this is not a one-time case. There have been several incidents of firefighters who have not dared to drive into certain areas because they know that those who will meet young inappropriate men who shoot fireworks at them and other similar situations. It must be stopped, and that is why, in isolation, we would like to praise the government for the bill here, because there is a clear need for us to have a fight with the unacceptable behaviour that unfortunately exists in some parts of our society. We owe it to the people who are subjected to the damaging behaviour of society that the perpetrators are severely beaten. In isolation, this is a good proposal. We would like to see the government, in general, taking a more firm approach towards the criminals who should feel that their actions have consequences. In the Conservative People's Party, we take the view that punishment works. We believe that it helps to contain crime, and we also believe that it is important for the sense of justice that it has a consequence when committing harmful acts against other people. That's what we mean when it comes to people firing fireworks at others. We would also like the government generally to have a tighter immigration policy, because it is part of the problem here that there are some ghetto areas where there are too many immigrants who do not work in our society, and if you are going to go to the heart of it, that is one of the main reasons why we are dealing with this type of problem. In isolation, however, we would like to commend the draft law, and of course we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112422	There are no brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112440	Thank you so much. I am a Thursday rapporteur, I am almost tempted to say, today. It is I who have all the legislative proposals today, including this for Mrs Pernille Vermund. I think we all remember the photos from Nørrebro last year. These were pictures that most likely gave us memories of television footage we've seen from conflicts in the Middle East or elsewhere... pictures of a Nørrebro with streets on fire... and completely inappropriate kids rolling around shooting rocket tubes and fireworks. What I actually remember most clearly is a picture of someone who comes bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike-bike. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. Unfortunately, as the rapporteur for Conservatives also said, we have seen this behaviour in very many different areas of Denmark. In New Citizens, we believe that criminal foreigners should be shown consistently and after the first sentence, and this also applies, of course, to cases such as these. People who have been granted Danish citizenship and have been convicted of crime must, of course, have taken away their Danish citizenship and been expelled, consistently. And then we must also stop giving citizenship to people who come from Muslim countries who are over-represented in crime statistics. We can also support what some of the other rapporteurs have said, namely about even stricter penalties. After all, we look forward to the committee reading on this bill, which we naturally support. The rapporteur for the Enhedslisten stated that she wanted something that worked. What will work is that we resolve immigration policy from the bottom up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112654	There are no brief comments. That is why we thank the rapporteur. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105112712	Thank you for the floor. I am a substitute for the Minister of Justice, who is unable to take part in today's legal proceedings. I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the positive contributions we have heard here today. Around New Year's last year, that is, almost a year ago, we witnessed an unfortunately long series of incidents in which fireworks were used to shoot down cops, emergency workers and also random people on the street. We have also seen incidents since then in which police and preparedness have been shot at with fireworks and attacked with stones, while they have taken care of their work, which is basically about looking after the rest of us. This is, of course, totally unacceptable and totally meaningless behaviour, which creates insecurity and, at worst, can also cost human lives. In the government we see it as our primary task to ensure the security of our citizens, and that is why it is also important for us to ensure that this type of insecurity-building crime is dealt with seriously. With the bill we are debating today, we are proposing to introduce a new autonomous provision into the criminal code on attacks with objects, including stones and fireworks, on people in public service or on duties such as policemen and firemen, but they may also be sosu assistants in home care. Our plan is that the law will already come into force this year, i.e. before New Year this year, namely on 15 December. At the same time, we are proposing to increase the penalty by one third in relation to the existing level of penalties. It must send out a clear signal that we do not accept this kind of crime, and at the same time it must help to ensure that police, preparedness, caring staff and all other public servants can be safe wherever or when they move out. In criminal proceedings relating to a breach of a number of provisions of the Criminal Code, expulsion may take place today, regardless of the duration of the stay of foreigners in Denmark and regardless of the duration of the unconditional sentence of liberty imposed. With the bill, we propose to introduce the same possibility of violating this new provision in Section 119b of the Criminal Code, thereby ensuring that expulsion will be possible as far as possible when a foreigner is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of liberty for attacks on persons in public service or occupation, i.e.: fireworks or rocks. In addition, it is proposed that the penalty for violating the criminal code's provision on the cause of danger to someone's life or disability be increased by one third when the provision is violated by firing or throwing objects against others. It also appears from the bill that punishment cannot deal with this alone. Therefore, at the same time, the police will increase their presence and preventive action up to and in December of this year, so that the police are visibly present in the areas particularly affected. The police will, with a searching effort, among other things. Attention is drawn to the fact that firing fireworks against other fireworks can have major consequences in terms of punishment, even if you are a foreign national or if you are exposed by your home. The bill must therefore help send out a strong signal that the behaviour we saw last New Year and unfortunately have seen in other cases too is totally unacceptable in Denmark, because of course everyone must be able to walk freely on the street without fear of being shot at with fireworks or the like. This applies to private individuals, home care, police and everyone else. I look forward to the debate and thank you for all the contributions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113041	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113051	Thank you. I would ask the Minister to explain in more detail what the normal penalties are in this proposal............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ What kind of punishment are we talking about? At the same time, the Minister can also comment on whether he believes that it is a level that has a general preventive effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113122	Thank you for the question. Today it is the case that in attacks with fireworks and the like, for example. In this context, it is important to stress the importance of the European Parliament's role in the fight against terrorism. This means, in concrete terms, that 6 months of prison are being given today, and in future it will be charged to 8 months instead. The Attorney General has also stated that if we talk about private individuals, the penalty will typically be measured in prison between 10 and 60 days. Specifically, that means 30 days in jail, and that will then have to be charged to 40 days in jail in the future. That is what we are talking about when we are talking about a third.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113201	Thank you. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113208	It's just to follow up. These are the normal penalties that we are now setting if we adopt this legislation. Does the Minister think that this is a level that has a preventive effect, 40 days in prison, which, I am now talking about attacks on civilians, can be served through an ankle bracelet, it can usually up to 60 days in prison or does it have no effect at all when it comes to the matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113231	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113235	We have the expectation that it will have an effect. And compared to the fact that the police will be more present and that preventive work will be carried out, that is clearly our expectation. You might also ask: Does punishment work? Yeah, I think it does. It is clear that one can always discuss whether that is enough. And if there are amendments, for example. from the Left or from other parties, we will have to discuss it, and I would ask the Minister for Justice to take a position on the specific amendments. So our bid is one third more than the penalty that would have been imposed today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113306	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113315	I would like to follow up on my colleague, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen's question, but I would like to start by asking the Minister: is the Minister of Justice of the view that 40 days is a fair punishment for firing fireworks against innocent civilians on the streets? Does the Minister think that's fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113338	It's a rather different penalty if it's about people in public service, then we'll be up in about 8 months instead. However, as I said, our bid is to go from the 6 to the 8 months when it comes to people in public service and from the 30 to the 40 days when it comes to private individuals. It is, of course, the typical measurement of the penalty, and when we present it, it is because we think it is the reasonable level. But I fully agree that the purpose here is to prevent rocks or fireworks being thrown off, both against people in public service and against individuals. And when we put it forward as both a punishment and
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113424	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113427	Thank you. The Minister thinks this is fair; I think we can have some long discussions on that. To follow up on Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen's question: What effect does the Minister think this will have? Does the Minister think it will have the effect of fewer people firing fireworks on police officers, firemen and civilians next New Year's Eve? So, what specific effect does the Minister expect this proposal to have? There are, of course, many strong words about the fact that the penalty is now being tightened up, and we in the Left think this is fine and good, but what effect does the Minister honestly expect this to have next New Year's Eve?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113459	I cannot say that we are actually moving from the number of charges to that number of charges. However, it is clear that we have an expectation that punishment combined with preventive work, also only combined with increased police presence in the particularly vulnerable areas, will have an effect. The object is not an empty blow to the air. The aim is to be able to work in home care or ride down Nørrebrogade without fear of what happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113522	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113531	Thank you. I have to admit that I have little difficulty taking seriously that it is believed that 40 days in prison, if someone has shot fireworks directly at other people, is in any way a deterrent. It may well be that in a meeting the government has found out that this is a huge deterrent, but I think that such a mass hysteria on the part of the government has been seized at that meeting. Because if you look at it as a citizen of this country, your sense of justice is seriously threatened when we see the series of judgments that have given virtually nothing after New Year's fireworks this year. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether he will reconsider whether 40 days in jail, if it should end up there, is really enough to give a deterrent effect to people who are completely indifferent to other people when they fire bomb tubes directly against individuals, for example. on a bike or on a street, as we saw on Nørrebro around New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113636	Unfortunately, it is not a new phenomenon that fireworks are fired, not even directly against people. At least I have been able to read about this in the media for years. The level of punishment that we have taken over from the previous government has been called 30 days, and now we are proposing a punishment cut. We are always ready to discuss whether people have other ideas. It can be both in relation to the level of penalties, and it can also be in relation to the preventive action. If specific amendments are tabled, I am quite sure that the Minister of Justice will deal with them. Our bid is that we are now sharpening it by a third and it is with a clear expectation that it will have a preventive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113708	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113713	That is a good thing if there is sensitivity, if you can see for yourself that your proposals are too weak. I would like to ask if you would support the Danish People's Party's proposal for a minimum of one year in prison in these cases where someone fires fireworks directly against other people. Will the government support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113740	We believe that our own proposal is strong and we have a clear expectation that it will help deal with the challenges we saw on New Year's Eve last year and, with the same arguments that we also heard from the rapporteur on the left, we are not in favour of introducing minimum penalties in this area for one year's imprisonment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113748	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113821	The debate is open. Mrs. Tanja Larsson, the Social Democratic Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105113835	Thank you. As in the case of Bill L 23, today I am replacing Mr. Jeppe Bruus. We know that drug abuse and crime are linked. Drug abuse increases the risk of people committing crime, and treatment for drug abuse is important if you are to get out of your crime again. Therefore, there is the possibility that you can receive treatment for your drug use when you are in Danish prisons. The draft law here proposes that it should be extended to prisoners in detention houses as well. It must ensure a more coherent and coordinated treatment of the abuse. The draft law also provides for a better link between offers and treatment for drug abuse in the criminal services and the treatment that occurs in the municipalities after the release. This bill is important because we must do everything we can to prevent and prevent crime for the sake of those people who, after an appropriate punishment for their crime, need a hand to find a legal path in life, for the sake of social security in general and, in particular, for the sake of future victims who can avoid being exposed to crime if society intervenes early and correctly. This is incredibly important for us in the Social Democracy, and I know it is also for my colleagues here in the Things, so I look forward very much to the continued consideration of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105114006	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105114015	Thank you for that and thank you for the proposal to the Minister. I'm not gonna make the speech long. I can say that the Left can support the proposal. Of course, there must be drug abuse treatment for the inmates. This applies both to those who are in prison and to those who are in custody in prison. So the Left can fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105114037	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105114040	Of course, we in the Danish People's Party can also support this proposal. The more rehab we can get started when people are in prison or in a prison, the better. For it is the root of all evil if you are in such an abuse circle as some of the people who come past our prison system, unfortunately, are. So we can be satisfied in all possible ways that this is also going to be an option. During the committee procedure, we would also like to ask a little more about what is actually going on with rehab in prisons. For it is clear that one thing is that we are giving an extra opportunity here, but that something else is, of course, whether it actually works satisfactorily. Because if we can ensure that it gets even better, that is to say, that even fewer people get into drug and hashish abuse when they get out of prison, then it is very good, and it is also important to keep people out of the criminal path, and we can look at the connection that often exists between it. Those who do crime, especially young boys and young men, have often been out in an abuse of drugs or hashish, often starting with hashish, and there we in the Folketing can of course discuss why there are some who want to liberalise hashish and such things, but that is probably a different discussion. But basically it is the root of all evil, and we must ensure that when you are in prison, whatever form it takes, you are treated and that you then hopefully get out of it so that you can get out properly on the other side.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105114229	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur, sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105114239	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, there is an over-representation in the institutions of criminal justice in the case of people who have an abuse, and it is therefore gratifying that the draft law extends the current offer of social drug abuse treatment to prisoners who are serving in detention houses and who have carried out motivation and pre-treatment, and that it is also laid down that this applies to detention centres. Because if we are to ensure that they return to society in good health, it is also important to ensure that those who can and have the motivation to do so get out of their abuses. Thus, the bill also means that in custody and inmates in detention houses can be offered a more intensive social drug treatment than today, so that it matches what we know from section 101 of the Service Act, unless essential safety and order considerations do not justify it. for safety reasons, cannot have an individual course with a single person, or if there are individual persons who, like injure the course of others in a group course. It is also proposed that enlargement should not apply to remanded foreigners, who, for example, are in the process of expulsion, and it is clear that if you are about to be expelled next week, it does not make sense to start a major process. However, incarcerated foreigners are nevertheless covered and this is important if the detention can be expected to be of a longer nature or if the health of the person concerned justifies it. That is why, in the committee's proceedings, we will be asking what is meant by this long-term period of time, so that we can make that clear. The Radical Left is also pleased that there has been a general strengthening of the coordination of the continued course of treatment for prisoners, in view of the fact that, fortunately, at some point they will have to leave either the detention centre or no longer be in custody; then the treatment will have to continue in local government when release takes place. And there it is very good to ensure a more coherent cross-sector and cross-sector transition to ensure that this abuse may finally come out of it. So there are a lot of good things in this bill, and that is why we support it. I would also like to thank you very much for the support in the hearings from among others. The social educators, the Council of Social Affairs Vulnerables, Gadejuristen and others.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105114546	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105114632	Thank you. Mrs Mette Thiesen said just now that she was the rapporteur on Thursday. I have ended up with this, which is why I am once again replacing myself as rapporteur, and now this bill. We know that there is a link between drug abuse, social exclusion and crime. That is why there is an open window to ensure that, when we have committed crime and have to serve, we are equally able to ensure that the inmate is offered appropriate treatment for abuse while doing so. If we succeed in doing so, getting out of our drug prison can lead to quality of life for the individual, but also to lower costs for society when the person concerned does not return to abuse and crime. The treatment of abuse in our prisons is important, and this is seen in a study of drug abuse among inmates and supervisory clients before they come into contact with criminal services. It shows, among other things, that 56 per cent. of the entire clientele of the criminal services is abusers, and that there is often a large degree of mixed abuse. Therefore, it is difficult not to be enthusiastic about this bill, which ensures better treatment options. But I hope that this is not the second time today that we have had to deal with a proposal that is not funded in a criminal justice system which is already under pressure from cuts and too few employees. The draft law does not say that money has been set aside for better treatment. And when you look at the cost of abuse treatment in the draft budget, you see that the cost of treatment is falling by 2020. After all, this is badly linked to a high number of inmates and a financing requirement of 4-5 million. kr. annual. We need a good explanation for this in committee work. If no money has been set aside, it is a little hollow that this right to abuse is to be guaranteed, because that right will hardly be improved by less money. In those words, however, I would like to say that the SF supports the proposal, but is anxious to receive answers to these questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105114828	Thank you. No one has any comments. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105114836	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that as a society we have a responsibility when we put people in prison. We must ensure that the people we imprison are better prepared to build a future and become part of society when they leave prison. They must have a better future when they leave prison than when they entered prison. The point of punishment is of course both that we want to care for the sense of justice, but also that we want to ensure that people stop committing crime. That is why we have a responsibility to ensure that the people who go to prison have better chances when they have served their sentence and come out of prison. Giving inmates access to free social treatment services will create better conditions for the important rehabilitation work that is going on in prisons, and so I can say right away that we in the Enhedslist support this proposal. Abuse and crime are, unfortunately, closely linked, and this points out both the Gadejurist and the social educators in their hearing response. That is why action against drug abuse in prisons is important, and stronger action can help reduce crime. But a drug addict does not get clean with a snap, it is a long and tough process that requires sustained motivation and a tailored individual course. Therefore, it is important that inmates with a drug abuse are not alone when they leave prison or change department, but that the offer is followed by a coordinated effort to ensure a good transition to, for example. a municipal treatment offer. Several of the consultation answers highlight that coordination is precisely the alpha and omega to ensure that the good work being done is not lost on the floor. It is important to ensure both that the inmates are forwarded in relevant offers and that experience and knowledge are obtained from previous support and treatment programmes. This knowledge can help to ensure optimal treatment for the individual. I therefore take note of the Gadejurist's remark that the terms used in the bill do not correspond to the terms used in the municipal drug treatment offer. It is important that offers are streamlined so that, without confusion, you can pass on the work from one new agency to another when one patient passes from one offer to another. It is also important that the treatments used in prisons are compatible with the recognised forms of treatment used outside When a patient undergoing medical treatment is admitted, the treatment must continue and not be seen as an abuse, as the Gadejurist also highlights in his hearing response. In addition, we wonder in Enhedslisten that the offer does not include foreigners in Denmark. I understand from the comments made by the Ministry of Justice that expelled or administratively detained foreigners do not have a future in Denmark and are therefore not offered treatment. However, as SOS Racism points out in its consultation answer, many foreigners have a future in Denmark. They cannot necessarily go back to their country of origin when they are released; many people end up living in an exit centre for many years, because Denmark does not have repatriation agreements with the countries from which those people have fled it by the minister present enough all about. That's why we in the Enhedslist are surprised that they're not covered by this bill. In the comments to the bill and in the consultation note, the Government and the Ministry of Justice stress that an inmate has the right to social drug abuse treatment, unless decisive legal certainty or order conditions argue against. The safety or order conditions described are related to the behaviour of the inmate towards the staff and to the reluctance to provide treatment. However, it is well documented that prison officers are missing in the Danish prisons, and so let me ask the government: how do we ensure that criminal services do not interrupt, restrict or refuse treatment because there is a lack of resources? I fully agree with the SF rapporteur that we are standing here with another bill that parks a bill at the Department of Justice, and we simply have to stop doing so when the criminal chain is to work. We cannot continue to say: we are just putting more punishment, more police into it and then doing so without taking the last part of the food chain, which is about those who take care of the people who have been punished, namely the staff of the criminal services. With these comments, however, I would like to say that we in the Enhedslist warmly support this proposal, but that we are going to raise some of these issues in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105115328	Thank you. There's no comment, and then it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105115342	The Government proposes, by means of the bill, to strengthen and extend the current offer of social drug abuse treatment in the criminal services institutions and to adapt the rules on the guarantee of treatment for social drug abuse treatment to suit practice. Although it is very important for us Conservatives that criminals should feel the obvious consequences of violating the law, the aim is, of course, to have fewer criminals in our society, and that also applies to those who are being punished for their freedom. We must get citizens out on the other hand in a better condition than they did when they came in, and this also applies, of course, to inmates. That is why it makes good sense to strengthen and extend the current offer of social drug abuse treatment. Drug addicts are among the most vulnerable people we have in society, and that is why, of course, we must offer them good treatment, including in prisons. It will be better for the individual and it will also benefit society, which is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105115451	Thank you. And we move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105115506	This is a bill to strengthen and extend the current offer of social drug treatment in the criminal services institutions. For New Citizens, it is of course also important to ensure that Danish criminals who sit in prison and who have drug abuse problems also have the best possible chance of being resocialised into Danish society once they have finished serving their sentences. A problem of abuse can have very, very major consequences, both for an entire family, but also for the further progress to which this Danish convicted criminal has to go. So we also believe that this bill makes a great deal of sense and, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105115559	Thank you. There are no comments, so that is why the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is acting Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105115613	Thank you. I am also a substitute for this bill for the Minister of Justice, who has no opportunity to participate. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. I am pleased that we agree that crime and drug abuse are linked and that it is therefore important to break that spiral and help the inmates into a drug-free and crime-free life. Against this background, the draft law aims to extend the current offer of social drug abuse treatment, so that it applies not only to prisoners in the country's prisons but also to detention houses. As a result, both prison prisoners and detention centres can be offered a more effective and intensive social drug treatment that is focused and coordinated. In addition, the draft law presupposes a general strengthening of the current offer of social treatment for drug use in the institutions of criminal justice, so that the treatment is, as far as possible, equivalent to that offered by the municipalities today. Finally, the proposal improves the coordination of the continuing course of treatment from the introduction into one of the institutions of criminal justice to the treatment of the local authorities in connection with the release or transfer to another institution in which the treatment can be continued. At the same time, it is important to secure the staff of prisons and detention houses. The draft law therefore presupposes that social drug abuse treatment can be restricted, refused or completely discontinued if essential safety or order conditions speak against it. It can, for example, be done. be when an inmate is at risk to the staff or his fellow inmates. The draft law does not alter the fact that aliens sentenced to expulsion or administrative detention are not offered social treatment for drug use, except in exceptional circumstances. Social drug abuse treatment is aimed at supporting the person concerned in a drug-free and crime-free life after his or her release so that he or she can return to society. On the other hand, expelled or administratively detained foreigners have no future in Denmark, but must return home to their home countries. It is a key priority for the government to prevent and prevent crime by combating and addressing the underlying causes of it, and therefore the draft law is an important step on the way. With those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for their speeches and we look forward to further consideration. I can hear that a few questions are on the way, and of course we will get the answer to them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105115837	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105115843	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. The Minister says, and we in the Danish People's Party agree, that expulsions are not going to start with this drug abuse treatment, which must also be said to be quite expensive for society. When you're deported, you have to go home. Can the Minister say anything about what they might be in some cases? At first sight, I can't see them. Where would the need be for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105115912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105115919	It is true that it is already the case today that the expulsion or detention of aliens is not offered social treatment for drug use unless very special circumstances prevail. That rule we also think needs to be continued, and the very special conditions may be that someone gets a very long punishment. It will always be up to the criminal services and the treatment staff to assess in concrete terms what is a long sentence, that is, a long time, and this must be done on the basis of an individual assessment. However, the starting point is that they cannot now be eligible for free social drug treatment if they are detained for less than six months. So that means that, after a specific and individual assessment, very long sentences can be used to initiate this social drug abuse treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120009	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120016	One can always discuss whether this should be possible in the event of a very long sentence. I would say that we in the Danish People's Party are very sceptical about investing in someone who has been sentenced to expulsion and the so-called long sentence that the Minister is talking about should then be served in the country of origin. If you are not a Danish citizen, it would be better if we had the homes in question to serve and receive drug abuse treatment instead of spending a lot of tax dollars on it. I would like to ask the Minister about those in custody, because the prisoners are not in custody for a very long time, overall. So what is there to suggest that in some cases the government will offer drug abuse treatment to exiles who, as I said, are only in custody for a relatively short period of time? It goes without saying, with the word "retention" incarceration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120114	After all, it is slightly different how long people are in custody, and that is also why we do not have a general rule that, when you get a six-month sentence, it automatically triggers social abuse treatment. It will always be a concrete assessment and it must be about the individual situation and needs of those concerned. I think it makes sense to hold onto both the general treatment of drug abuse, for example. In the form of methadone, but also in the possibility that for people who have to sit for a long time, there may be social drug abuse treatment, also for the sake of the institutions they are at, the co-inmates and the staff there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120155	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120215	The debate is open. And here you go, Mrs. Tanja Larsson, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120232	Thank you. I am very happy to stand here today with the bill for a new internship taximeter grant. This is an area of great concern to the Social Democratic Party. We know that in Denmark we are going to lack skilled workers in the future, and therefore it is also crucial that we train more young people in our vocational training programmes. The internship is an essential element of training in order to develop the skills we need in the labour market so badly. It is therefore also important that we ensure that young people starting vocational training can have an internship. The bill is based on the agreement of November 2019 on the implementation of negative budgetary regulation in 2020 and beyond. With the bill, we introduce a new internship taximeter grant so that the institutions receive an additional internship taximeter grant... a fantastic word... when they enter into training agreements already on the basic course. By introducing an additional subsidy for agreements concluded in the past, we are strengthening the educational institutions. We strengthen their incentive to help young people enter into training agreements with an employer about an apprenticeship. And the aim is for the students to get an education agreement earlier in their education, that is to say already on the initial course. That is a very good suggestion. Many young people in vocational schools experience great uncertainty about finding a apprenticeship. That's not good enough. In this way, we will give young people greater security in their training programmes in the past, which will make it easier to maintain young people, whom we obviously need to complete their education. We can ensure that more young people in vocational training acquire the necessary skills. The system therefore plays an important role if we are to achieve the goal of apprenticeships for all. Most young people starting vocational training are 16 years old. It is therefore not right that we should leave such a major task for society to them. It is a common task for society to ensure that young people are given an apprenticeship. It lies with us politicians, with educational institutions and with companies. It cannot and must not be left to the individual young boy or girl who has just finished primary school. For us in the Social Democratic Party, it is therefore also a core task that we have the code broken so that we can create enough internships for the vocational school students. The legislative proposal here is a step in the right direction, which is why we naturally support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120530	Thank you to the rapporteur, and we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Stén Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120544	Thank you for the floor. I'll try not to say that long word: taximeter... I think that's hard enough already. The Danish Regions forecast for 2025 tells us that we lack 70,000 skilled workers at the time. So all possible steps we can take in order to motivate more people to ensure that young people have an internship, we should welcome it, and with the proposal here we will come a long way. However, I do not think it will stop here; we will have to continue to have a discussion among us in order to get more internships. However, it strengthens the institutions' incentive to find more internships, and thus there is also the hope that more people will enter training, find a apprenticeship and thereby be trained. We think it is a very fine proposal and the Left can back it up as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120641	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120657	The draft law here deals with the implementation of a component of a broad agreement on the co-financing of the same. The specific draft law is an element of the intention to strengthen and support young people's way to vocational training. I think we all agree in here that it is important to do what we can to ensure a good framework. P.t. There are, after all, tripartite negotiations which are also about the framework for internships in vocational training. I would hope that the Minister could perhaps later lift the veil a little bit as to how things are going. One key element I hope will be that the parties will take greater responsibility for securing the places of internship and also providing the framework for young people to find internships, so that some adults will assume responsibility for precisely securing the places and helping young people to be matched with the right places. But this particular agreement is about internship taximeter grants to institutions for the dissemination of training agreements, and it is of course a positive element, according to the Danish People's Party's opinion, and can only support increased efforts by the institutions. So DF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120811	Thank you. Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120818	Thank you. Since our rapporteur for youth education cannot be in the Chamber today, you have to settle for me. The proposal here, as has already been said, is part of an agreement on the FGgu, and it is a very good idea to create a stronger incentive for the internship agreements to be concluded more quickly so that the main course can start directly after the basic course. This creates a much better safety for the individual learner, as the training course is better planned and less uncertain, and therefore Radicals naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120852	Thank you. We move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105120905	I regret the delay, it was a brief speech by the rapporteur of the Radicals. I can start by saying that the SF also supports this proposal. We lack skilled workers in Denmark, we have established this a great many times, and we have a shared responsibility to ensure the best possible framework for more people to choose vocational training and carry it out. Companies, schools, pupils and politicians all have a responsibility. Last week we talked about companies' educational contributions, and today it is the school's. We know that it is quite essential for vocational training to have an internship. The fact that school practice is an option is a good thing, but for the vast majority, it is best if they get an internship in a company. We also know that it can provide security and motivation for the individual student if you get an internship already during the initial course and that it can help to maintain the training. That is why we have agreed to introduce a new additional internship taximeter grant for ordinary training agreements and combination agreements concluded with students who are in the process of a basic course. This also applies to agreements with mercantile eux students concluded on the course of study competence. The schools receive an additional grant when more students get an agreement during the initial programme, and thus also an additional incentive to provide guidance and help students find internships. That's good. For the students, an agreement made during the initial course will mean that they can start on the main course directly after the completion of the initial course. It will mean greater motivation and, I hope, also that more people will carry out vocational training. Of course, we support this in the SF, which is why we also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105121048	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105121057	Thank you. It was nothing more than last week that we had the discussion here on the internship problem in the vocational training system, and today we have one more element. After all, the proposal is based on a political agreement on the introduction of additional internship allowances for ordinary training agreements concluded with pupils in vocational training before the student has completed the second part of his basic course. The aim is, as it appears, to provide an economic incentive to provide internships covering the entire student's main course. I think that this is a very sensible way of promoting the possibility for pupils to embark on a main course immediately following the completion of the initial course, and we must of course say that the proposal also creates a greater degree of security for the completion of their vocational training as a genuine alternance training. I would like to emphasise this, because I think it is so extremely important and a great quality of our vocational training that there is alternance training. And, of course, not a bad word about school practices; I am sure that in school practice you do a very good job on the basis of the conditions, but it now gives something else to an education if it is a real alternance training, where you change between being at school and being out in a business. So it is really good that you do it, and as I said, it is very good that you also create a sense of security for the students. Imagine having gone on a vocational training course, having gone through the first part of the initial course, having started the second part of the initial course, and still not knowing if, when you hit the main course, you are able to complete the training as you might expect when you started. Otherwise, I should just like to say that there is a special structure in the mercantile field, which is being taken into account here, so that the students who go on the course of study in the mercantile courses will be covered by the same provision, and this is, of course, something connected with the application of, or rather not the application of, the very poor application of, basic courses in this field. So all in all, these are two excellent elements to ensure that more young people get an internship in a company, and Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105121343	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105121353	We support the bill, which is, of course, about providing a greater incentive to help students find an internship already during their basic course. I would also like to say that, with regard to the AUB, we also take the view that it is important that no more money is collected than is needed. We are worried that it will be used as a tax screw to companies. That is why we have also tabled an amendment to the second legislative proposal, L 48, which was unfortunately voted down last week. I would like to point out once again that we believe it is important that we do not charge too much money. It has actually become large amounts of money for companies, a considerable extra tax for them, and we are opposed to that. But we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105121457	Thank you. Then we move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105121517	I was quite confused because the Conservative rapporteur said that we had voted on something last week. We have not yet voted on this, but in the new citizens we also support the amendment to which the Conservative rapporteur referred with regard to the AUB contribution. This bill is again a very broad agreement. It's a deal that New Citizens weren't part of for good reasons, but we can really back this up. We also share the ambition that much more people will have the opportunity and desire to take up vocational training. For many years there has been some kind of education snobbery, where a lot of people have been called upon to go to high school, and then there has also been such an attitude that it was almost better to take a secondary education than to take a vocational training course. And it's really sad, because we really, really need skilled people. That is why, of course, we can also support this bill, but I am a little surprised at the wording that is, in other words, the fact that extreme emphasis is placed on the Socialist rapporteur who said earlier that these girls and boys should not be left alone in finding an internship. I think we can put even more emphasis on finding an internship ourselves, so that it does not become such a curling situation, but that you actually take the lead and go out and find yourself an internship before you start the training if you already know where you want to go. But that's just such a small comment, and otherwise, of course, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105121702	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105121713	Thank you. I met a young man out at NEXT not long ago who had applied for 70 internships. He had received an answer to the 10, the others had not even answered him. So before we get too far down the track about young people just having to take some initiative and have to go out looking for all sorts of things... I certainly think they should also... it's just to say that there are young people like the young man who experience having sought 70 places, having received the answer from 10 and still have not gotten an apprenticeship. I don't think there's much nanny about us trying to do something about that situation. I think this is right and proper, both in relation to young people, but indeed also in relation to the fact that industry is screaming for skilled labour. Of course, there is no point in us not doing more systematically than also providing the apprenticeships that are needed. And we are discussing this in three parts right now with the social partners, where fortunately both sides are also very concerned about ensuring that we get the skilled labour needed in the future. I would like to thank the parties behind this bill. As others have also said, it is a broad political agreement that is behind this, because it is about getting the agreement into the law that was made back in November 2019 and correspondingly with regard to the extension of the agreement that we agreed in the fgu agreement circle in January 2020. The 2019 agreement was initially implemented by the Finance Act in 2020 and will now be included here. We still have too great a shortage of internships in Denmark, and at the same time, in my opinion, we leave it too much up to the pupil's own responsibility to find an internship. I simply do not think it is easy for them, and I do not think it makes it easy for our business community to get what it takes. For a lot of young people this ends up being about: Do you know anyone who knows someone who can give you an internship? And if you don't know anyone, then it can be really hard, because the shelves can be empty, and then there's just no apprenticeship for you. This situation is unsustainable and, as others have already said, we have a tendency towards upper secondary education. And it is not difficult to see the difference, if it is, that one place we offer young people, that if they apply for admission there, they can be sure to get both 1.g, 2.g and 3.g and get a completed youth education, while the other place you can start on your basic course 1, you can even start on your basic course 2, you can even finish your basic course 2, and still half of the students are not clarified in relation to having found a apprenticeship. That is simply not good enough. We must have a better flow of education for young people who, after all, wanted to get started with vocational training. We need them to do so, and it is no use that there are so many gaps in education. This is what we are debating in three parts now, and I am convinced that the uncertainty is contributing to the great apostasy that we see just at the end of basic cycle 2, where the gaps fit together, so to speak, so that there is both a gap as to how many people have an apprenticeship, and then there is also a gap in the sense that there is a large group of students who at that time choose to finish their education. In this way we have simply missed out on a lot of people who could have become skilled mechanics, electricians, blacksmiths and all sorts of other things that we really need in the years to come. Of course, this bill isn't going to solve everything. That's one of them. That is why we are now negotiating in Tripartite; it is because there are more things to do, but I think it is a step along the way, and I would like to reiterate my promise that we are willing to go very far in resolving this problem. I fully support the comments that came from the Enhedslisten, namely that it is essential that we have an alternance training system, because school practice can do a great deal now, but the idea that you are out on a company with everything that it also involves learning to be in a workplace, we believe that we are crucial to the education and training of young people ■ both and that we are therefore very concerned that we are keeping to a strong alternance training principle. What we do with this is that we provide an extra internship taximeter grant when providing apprenticeships, already on the basic programme and an additional internship grant for apprenticeships with students on the academic qualification course on the mercantile eux programmes. It should strengthen the institutions' incentive to help young people gain an apprenticeship, and it also rewards the institutions in this regard when they find and disseminate training agreements. Therefore, the system is an important factor in achieving this, that you actually experience having some adults, a system and a school in the back when you want to provide the apprenticeships that are needed. So overall, this is a step in the right direction. There are so many more steps to be taken before we are in place in this area. Some of this we are negotiating in tripartite, and I hope we will soon be in line with that. But thank you to Parliament's parties for the commitment to support the bill today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105122235	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105122304	The debate is open. Mrs Tanja Larsson, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105122324	Thank you. I've been looking forward to this bill a lot. It may at first glance appear to be a little, but it is actually of great importance to the children and young people who are now getting a vote, and it is of great importance to us in the social democracy in principle. This is because the draft law here helps to ensure that children and young people's participation is guaranteed in their own lives, in their schooling. The bill is about the children or young people who, in fine terms, are being discharged from the school if we are to be honest, it would probably be more fair to say that they are thrown out of a free school, private primary school, post-school, free school or a private high school. In the past, it has been possible to throw out students without the individual student being involved. Almost four out of ten pupils in free and private schools were thus neither involved nor listened to when the school decided to throw them out, and in post-schools it was 15 per cent. That, of course, is not good enough. All children have the right to be involved in decisions relating to their own schooling, and with the bill here we guarantee the student's right to be heard. In my opinion, this is not just sensible; it is also only fair. When a student is thrown out of school, it is often a violent and unpleasant experience. We also often have to deal with children and young people who already struggle with other difficult things in their lives. Those children and young people deserve a proper explanation so that we do not leave them with a wrong perception of the situation or with a feeling of being wrong or too bad. They deserve to be heard and withdrawn even before the decision is taken so that their words can be weighted according to their age and maturity. With the bill, we also respond to a desire from the Danish Parliament Ombudsman to introduce binding rules in relation to the inclusion of a student before free schools, private primary schools and post-schools decide to throw the student out. This allows the Ombudsman to use the general reaction options to deal with complaints about the school's printing of pupils. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is important to safeguard the rights of the pupil in that situation. We therefore welcome the proposal and support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105122554	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Stén Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105122608	Thank you for the floor. Everyone must have the right to be heard, and this also applies to children and families in the context of free schools, private primary schools, post-schools or free vocational schools, as mentioned in the proposal here. The proposal ensures that we listen to the child and that we also listen to the family. And it also means that we are living up to what the previous rapporteur said, namely Article 12 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states precisely that we must also listen to children. We will, of course, discuss the proposal further, but we support it. And when I say that we are discussing it further, it is also a question of making it as easily administrative as possible in relation to the execution of these very talks that are to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105122700	That's it, thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105122720	This bill deals with free schools and high schools. It seems to me that this is an attack on the freedom of free schools. It regulates management's freedom to deal with student matters down to the last detail. This bill will open up in the future a barn gate of opportunities to manage the freedom of free and private institutions in detail. Originally, the proposal came from the dissatisfaction of a few parents that their grafts were discharged from the free school. The parents complained to the Ombudsman because in some places the pupils were not consulted and involved, as provided for by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, since the Ombudsman can only deal with cases where rules have been laid down in advance, complaints had to be rejected. But nothing is too small for the Ombudsman. A regular storm race was launched against the Ministry in order to get statutory printing rules so that you could interfere. Reference was made to the Convention on the Rights of the Child in order to convince the parties to do so. We had the subject turned up several times when the Minister of Education was Merete Riisager. The Danish People's Party could not support a change of law. We believe that it is the Danes through the Folketing who should decide this kind of thing, and not a children's convention. On the other hand, we recommended guidance from the Ministry that the children be heard. Now the red majority has decided to increase the paperwork and restrict the freedom of the free institutions, so that in future it is legal how the pupil should be involved when he or she is discharged from school. It should be noted, written down, sent letters to parents and be possible to appeal. If the schools cannot prove that they have involved the pupil, it may even become a matter of supervision by the Ministry. I would like to warn against this desire to regulate and steer down to the smallest detail. It's socialism when it's worst, and it's distrustful, so it's beating up. The only attenuation of the proposal is that it is an offer to the pupil; the duty is only for the school. The Danish People's Party votes against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105122945	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Astrid Carøe with a question or a comment on Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105122955	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not find it worrying that almost four out of ten pupils in the Danish free and private schools will not be heard if they are discharged from school. The rapporteur points out that guidance material should be sent out, but does the rapporteur not think so and ignore the children's convention if the rapporteur does not like the fact that it is a problem that Danish children and young people are not heard in matters which concern them and which are so crucial that one can be thrown out of school?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123032	Good management always involves the learner... the poor management doesn't. So when bad management doesn't involve the student, then suddenly we have to legislate. Well, there are many things that often go wrong because of management. If we are going to regulate and manage every thing that does not work, we cannot order anything else. We have to show confidence because they are free schools; and because they are free schools, we have said that they have greater freedom than others, and therefore we expect them to fulfil that responsibility. There have been some problems here. We have issued counsel, and that counsel takes some time to deal with it. But it is clear that we in the Danish People's Party want the students to be involved. We're not against it. We are just opposed to the fact that it should be regulated as violently as it will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123125	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123127	It is simply a management responsibility. But then when we can see in this study from EVA that it's in 37 percent. In the case of students who are not heard before they are released, is it not a right that the Danish pupils should have, but do not actually have, that is, when it is so large a share in the private schools, in the Danish free schools that are not heard before they are discharged? And when you have sent out guidance material in 2015 and 2017 and it hasn't worked, according to the evaluations, isn't there a need to ensure from here that these students also have rights on an equal footing with all other Danish school students?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123204	I believe in the authority of the adult and the right to exercise leadership, and I believe that the child is a child until the child reaches 18 years of age, so it seems a bit like shooting grey sparrows with cannons. I believe that the left is going to do the students a disservice by detailing as violently as they are doing here on a matter that should actually have been dealt with in schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123239	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Tanja Larsson for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123243	Thank you. At the beginning of his speech, the rapporteur said that freedom for school management was DF's priority. I'm thinking, what about the child's best interests? What about the child's well-being? I would like to ask the rapporteur: is the school for the school or is the school for the child and the education? And then I would like to point out that the Children's Council, Children's Conditions and even Denmark's Private Schools actually think this bill is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123317	I have seen the answers to the hearings, and I am also surprised that they are saying 'yes' to giving up freedom in this area. We do not know the individual cases in detail. Often it is the case that an expulsion case does not come as a lightning bolt from a clear sky; there has always been a process until the decision is made in the office, and in that course teachers and management always have a hold on the student, so it doesn't come as a surprise. This is just about whether the student has the right to be in the office with the management when an expulsion is to be made. This is where the water separates. I think it's the adult's right in a free school to decide that kind of thing. We recommend that they involve the student, but we just think it's too much to legislate on tiny details, so we can go on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123418	Mrs. Tanja Larsson.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123421	The rapporteur says that it does not come as a lightning bolt from a clear sky. Now I have taught myself in primary school, and at one point I received a second-class boy who had just been expelled or thrown out of a private school. I talked to this boy, and he didn't actually understand why he was sent away. He thought he was a bad child, and that it was probably because he behaved too badly, maybe he was too bad to read, or maybe he generally behaved too badly. Then I'm back on the question of the child's well-being. I cannot understand why DF prioritises that management should not have a conversation with the learner so that the learner can be clarified. This sits as a trauma to the students and follows them into adulthood. So is the school for the school, or is the school for the child?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123515	Now I am trying to say this for the third time: in the Danish People's Party we give priority to the management involving the child. What we do not give priority to is that we legalize it, that is to say that we regulate every small thing for a free school which has an extensive degree of freedom. We believe in freedom under responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123537	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Alex Ahrendtsen. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123551	Thank you. The government, along with a number of parties in here, has decided, along with the government party, to make this fine little bill, which I have been sighing for a long time, because it has always seemed quite unreasonable to me that pupils who come into a situation and for some reason should not be printed, should not be heard. So this is part of a change in our attitude that children can also be heard in matters that concern them. Of course, you can say that a legislative proposal is unnecessary, because you can just think about and do it yourself, but it does not matter that you have a legislative proposal that shows this direction in the direction we would like to see. So the Radical Left supports it. We do so for several reasons. First, it is realistic to recommend appropriate emphasis on the child's objections or expressions depending on the child's maturity and age. It is entirely relevant, and in this context it is of course also relevant to give the child the support it may be to have a sitter with, because it can be overwhelming to have to sit in that situation with some adults at school. I also think it is right that the school should have written documentation on how the pupil has been involved. This is something that should have been done on its own a long, long time ago, but it has just not been done, and it is therefore appropriate that we legislate on it when we want to have a development of that nature and thus also respect the child's experience of the situation and give the child the opportunity to express it. So it is a fine little bill that involves the child, and it supports the Radical Left completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123748	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123750	Thank you. For many years, or at least a few years, the Radical Left has been talking about a reform of confidence: that it is important that we give more confidence to those who work on behalf of us, because by means of trust we are also convinced that things will be implemented more effectively for the benefit of our citizens. After all, this bill removes some of the confidence by going in and running something that is part of a management's responsibility, namely how to deal with, for example. a banishment. How is the support of the Radical Left for that bill linked to the desire to increase confidence and therefore also freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123845	It is actually very well said by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, that is to say, to talk about freedom. But freedom is also about having responsibility in that freedom, and we would like to involve others in taking responsibility if we believe that something does not work well enough. Now I have dealt with free schools and afterschools etc. etc. for really, very many years, and this is a theme that has been raised many times over those years, and schools have been very uninclined to use this way of working with the child or student. Then I note that they are not dissatisfied with the form it has been given here; they actually accept it and they accept it in a way that is positive, and I think that is a good step in the right direction. And that is also what legislation is involved in. It helps to set out some directions that we, the majority of the Danish Parliament, sympathise with and want to promote, and sometimes it may be necessary to legislate, and so it is when you are radical that you recognise that sometimes it is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123951	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105123951-2	However, the rapporteur does not agree that it is less and that is why I am surprised that the Radical Left was involved in making that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124012	But it hasn't worked before. It has not been a practice that has been used. Whatever the freedom of schools to choose to do this, they haven't. And here I am thinking of the child's best interests, the child's ability to express how the child experiences a situation. I think it is entirely relevant that some people take care of holding that child in their hands and giving that child some opportunities that it has not had before and the opportunities it has now, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124045	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124047	It is just to specify what the previous questioner also mentioned, so this is almost a motion of censure on the free schools. But I am a little surprised that the rapporteur for the Radicals is saying this because it seems that schools have not been able to find out. Can the rapporteur not confirm that very few schools have not done so here, or does the rapporteur on the Radical Left think that it is all free schools that have not involved the pupil?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124122	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124123	I have the impression that this has not been a practice that has been used everywhere, and we would like to spread that practice everywhere. That is also why all free schools are mentioned, in other words the categories in which they are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124140	Thank you. There are no more questions or comments to the rapporteur, so that is why it is Mrs Carøe. No, there was one more question. I'm just gonna be so happy when you push in, because then I'm sure you want the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124154	I'm sorry. It is slightly different from the President to the President if you wish. But I'll remember that. I would just like to follow it up a little, because it was actually mentioned that it was a small number. However, I would also like to know whether the rapporteur does not think that talking to the parents of the child also involves the child, because of course one can expect to find out that the parents themselves involve the child if they think it is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124225	Well, the parents have been able to do that all along when there's been a case somewhere. What is at the heart of the Radical Left now is to give the child some opportunities to speak up for himself and that emphasis is being placed on what the child says, depending on age and maturity. This applies from the youngest in a free school to the oldest in a free secondary school, and there is a powerful spectrum in between between there is much difference between the cases that arise, depending on the child's age and the conditions surrounding that child. That's why we think it's fair to give all children this opportunity in all free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124305	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124312	Thank you. For us in the SF it is extremely important that children in Denmark have some fundamental rights and that children are of course heard if decisions are made about them, especially in a school system that is crucial to their future. So we're really, really happy about this proposal. It is almost four out of ten students in the Danish free and private schools who are not heard in cases where they are discharged from school. I understand that is frustrating for both students and parents. And I understand that there has been a complaint to the Ombudsman, who, unfortunately, has not been able to do very much before we make this legislation. I also understand that you start with guidance; I think that is actually a good place to start. Both in 2015 and in 2017, guidance material has been sent out to schools, but we can just see that it has not moved, and because it is so crucial that children should of course have rights to be heard when it comes to matters relating to them, legislation is now needed. The bill must guarantee the right of children to be heard, and it must help to ensure codecision for children and young people over their own lives. That's great. Moreover, it is a right guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child that a child must be guaranteed the right to express his or her views freely when he or she is concerned with the child. In the SF, we would like to see the whole children's convention and not just one article written into Danish law, but let us start somewhere, namely with Article 12 of the Convention. It is a step in a very good direction. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124459	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten, as the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105124504	It is important that we safeguard the rights of children. We are particularly committed, because we have joined the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, but I do not think that, as one might perhaps hear from the debate, we should regard it as a special yoke under which we have been put, but that it is quite natural for a society such as the Danish one to ensure that children have rights as individuals. That is why I do not see that we are now bent and bound to protect them. We are Conventional, but when we have signed up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is because it is in harmony with the way we think about the rights of children in our society. It is the implementation of an agreement that guarantees the right to be heard before a free school or other private schools decide to print a student from school. This is an issue that has been under discussion for years. It has already been mentioned by several people that it is in particular the Parliamentary Ombudsman who has been active in the matter, because he has received a number of complaints I do not remember how many, if I have ever known it from parents who have experienced that their children have been discharged in an unreasonable manner and that they have not been heard and withdrawn. With the proposal here, we will therefore strengthen the involvement of the pupil when such a situation arises. And I do not think that we should regard it here as a declaration of distrust for the free schools. At least it is not for me. Well, I am convinced that the majority of free schools are able to handle this very sensibly in practice. What is the driving force when you run a free school I often think that is a view that unites you, after all, that you have a desire to run a very good school for the pupils who go there. I believe that basically there is respect for the pupils, even in the free schools, which makes it quite natural that when a conflict arises, you are not only in dialogue with the parents, but you also ensure that the pupil is heard. I guess that's the general respect we can expect from people who run school, and that's definitely my expectation and also my experience based on what I now know about the field, that's how it works in practice. Therefore, I would also like to say that this is not something I imagine will then become a regulatory yoke, we will force down on some schools that will then have to completely change their practice. But, of course, we are taking action where it does not work and where it is evident that there is a need for legislative regulation as well. I mean, take, for example. The disability area, where Danske Handicaporganisations in their hearing answer, which I just found out, writes: "We are aware of examples of children with disabilities against children and parents' desires being discharged from free schools because schools apparently do not want to include the children. It seems grotesque. I wonder what the hell it could be for schools. Nevertheless, in this situation, we are giving parents opportunities to go to the Ombudsman. It is clear from the Ombudsman's reply that, with the current legal design, the Ombudsman has no access to access. So it is just to give an example that in some schools there is, for some reason, an unreasonable practice. So it is not the vast majority that we need to regulate it, there is no need for it, but where situations arise that are quite unreasonable, for example. the one I just described, there must of course be an opportunity for the Ombudsman to act. Finally, I also think it is important to highlight the right to a sitter. The role of parents has been mentioned by some of the previous rapporteurs, but I also think it is very important that we decide here that the pupil should have a right to take a side with him. I'm thinking it's probably relatively normal for the parents to be involved. I have the pleasure of being the father of four. It's not a movie, but reality. And when I've moved around in the educational system, I have generally had the feeling that there were conflicts, it was quite natural that parents were involved. However, we must also take into account in our legislation that in some places it may be because there may be a conflict between the pupil and the school, but also between the pupil and the parents, sensible that we give the pupil a legal position so that, in that situation, he or she has an opportunity to actually involve a sidekick. So freedom and rights are not the opposite of each other. It is very reasonable that there are great freedoms in our private schools, but it is not contrary to guaranteeing rights for pupils where necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125014	Thank you. No one has any comments. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125028	The bill gives children the right to be heard before a free school, a private primary school, a post-school, a free school or a private high school decides to discharge the student from school. It is a sensible proposal that strengthens children's rights and we welcome the fact that children are given a stronger and clearer voice, and by giving them the right of consultation when changing schools they are given the opportunity to express themselves. The draft law also gets positive words on the way in the consultation answers, but there are also some concerns, for example. on whether, in practice, an interpretation of the law will mean that private and free schools will be subject to more restrictive frameworks and more restrictive rules than the children's convention provides. We hope the Minister will reply to that in his speech. Otherwise, we'll back it up. We would have liked to have been part of the agreement reached by the Minister with a number of parties, and we are sure that if the Minister had taken the trouble to contact the bourgeois parties, broader agreement could have been reached, but the broad cooperation was obviously not important to the Minister in this matter. But we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125142	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125151	Thank you. I think we can all agree that it is always good to have a dialogue with parents and pupils if there is to be any change in any way envisaged. Now I have been in the Danish primary school for 10 years, almost 10+ in fact and that is always a good idea. What this bill is proposing is that we should impose something on the free schools that they already have the opportunity to do and, as previous rapporteurs have said, as the good leader would of course do. This is not going to happen with the support of the New Citizen. In New Citizens we want all schools to be free schools. We want the primary school law to be shaved down, so that politicians decide much less and the Danes decide much more for themselves, including for the schools they want their children to go to. There is no compulsory schooling in Denmark. We have compulsory education, and no one has the right to attend a particular school. I must be completely honest and say that my ten years in the Danish primary school have led me at least to the conviction that if it were easier to throw students out of there, it would be a great advantage, because there is by god also someone who destroys it for all the others. Here, of course, we are not talking about the fact that there are some schools that do not lift that responsibility in relation to ensuring that children with disabilities can have the best possible conditions. But we are talking about the fact that there are some pupils who, although they have talked to parents repeatedly and so on. the fact that they do not behave in a way which is particularly advantageous, either for themselves or for the remaining classmates, still behaves in this way. There the free schools have the possibility that they can simply say: do not go here. And so they must be allowed to continue to do so without any further restrictions being imposed on them. This is an expression of distrust of free schools. It is that you go in and legislate in an area that they can easily stand for themselves. And that is the completely opposite direction of what New Citizens want. As I started by saying, we want all schools to be free schools, that as a skilled leader and teacher in schools you can do exactly the best school for your own area, but that you also still have the opportunity to throw out pupils if that is what is necessary. And now it is always convenient, and I simply have to say that one can always pull out some convention if it fits in equally, and moreover there are almost conventions in all areas now. This is about the fact that we in the New Citizens' Party certainly do not want to express distrust of free schools. On the contrary, we want all schools to be free schools and politicians to decide much, much less about schools in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125518	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs Tanja Larsson, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125522	Thank you. In her speech, the rapporteur mentions good governance, and she expects good management in schools. Then I just have to make sure I get it right. Since there's 37 percent. of the students in free schools and private primary schools, who have neither been consulted nor involved when the school decided to throw them out, does this mean that there is poor management in so many schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125552	Actually, I don't know if there's 37 percent of it. is that the school management has had a dialogue with the parents. They must be clearly assumed to have that. So that's why I think it's kind of a weird foundation. I mean, I have every confidence that those leaders in the schools have a good reason if they think there's a student to be thrown out. In the schools I know, it is a question of first having a conversation with the parents and hearing them and telling them what problems there are, and if there is no action and no change, you have the opportunity, which unfortunately you do not have in the Danish primary school to a large extent, in my opinion, that you can then say that the pupil cannot, unfortunately, remain at that school. So no, I have no distrust of the free schools, and I have full confidence that, as parents, you can opt out of a school if you think it has poor management or something else. What is good about free schools is that one can actually choose one more school, but also choose it from, much more than one can in the field of primary education.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125700	Thank you. It's still a little unclear to me about the 37 percent. I do not think the rapporteur is responding specifically to this question, if that is to say that there are 37 per cent. of these schools that lack something in their management system, because these children have not been involved. This is what you can measure and weigh here. What I hear then is that the rapporteur has a great deal of confidence in free schools, so more confidence in them than in the best interests of the child. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125733	I simply think it is such a funny debate, but unfortunately it is very time-typical. These are kids we're talking about. I have no reason to believe that there are some school leaders who just throw children out at will. There is, of course, a discussion with the parents of the minor child who attends this school. Of course, such good management is to involve them, but that you do not also have a talk with the student, and that the student is not also in the room, I will not naturally deduce as poor management. It must be a matter of judgement whether you think there should be a second-class student at a meeting with adults who are discussing whether this student should not go to school anymore, and I have full confidence that the individual head of the school can do much better than the politicians who sit in Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125825	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105125840	The free schools are popular because politicians have not destroyed them to the same extent as they have destroyed the primary school. There has just been an evaluation of the reform of primary school, which fills the news today, and it is an example of how ideological politicians and very world-removed desk theorists have together destroyed the primary school well and thoroughly, so we are further away from the objectives of the reform today than we were in 2013-2014 when the reform was originally implemented. Now a majority in the Folketing will also contribute to the destruction of the free schools, although it is a constitutional right that one can teach and be free from the state and the way the state looks at things, and one then uses that. The children's convention as an excuse for that. But there I just have to say that that argument doesn't stand. The children's convention is subject to virtually all other legislation in Denmark. If, for example, you're gonna have to... separates young asylum couples with reference to section 222 of the Criminal Code, the Ombudsman has absolutely no objection to it, but if you do so with reference to Article 34 of the Children's Convention, which prohibits the sexual abuse of children, then it is a major problem, and that is because the Children's Convention is at the bottom of the hierarchy of legislation that we have in Denmark; that is what any lawyer can tell. So this is just a bad excuse for interfering in the inner life of free schools and private schools and continuing the destructive work that has been so successful in primary school. Of course, good management means involving children and family in cases where you can, but the crucial thing about free schools is, as the name says, that they are free and they are getting less free with this bill. It is just the case that schools also sometimes need to defend themselves against children and young people who are destroying education and who are destroying the community and the balance between children being heard, but that school must be able to defend itself against destructive behaviour is already quite, quite wrong in primary school, and that is a significant part of the reason why so many people are going to go to free and private schools. So here we are undermining the freedom that free and private schools must have and, of course, this is not a legislative proposal that we can support in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105130212	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no questions. Then it's the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105130226	Thank you. These are, however, relatively tumorous statements that have just been made here, for example. That this was supposed to destroy the free schools. So we are talking about giving a right to a child to be heard in connection with it being thrown out. I think it might be an exaggeration to talk about it being able to destroy anything. And let me read from Denmark's Private Schooler's hearing answer to this, just so that we get the proportions right. Denmark's Private Schools write about this proposal... they're the ones who, after the statement, were to be destroyed by this proposal... and I quote: "Children have the right to make their views known on issues that are important to them. This is a possible change of school, whether the change of school is from a public or private school. It has always been the opinion of the association that schools are obliged to include pupils' views in matters which may involve printing, which has been reflected in the opinions of the association and in the concrete advice of the member schools. The association therefore has no fundamental objections to the proposal for the amendment of the law. Fortunately, in Denmark we have a fairly inclusive democracy and a very direct democracy in the form of large and strong organisations of interest that interfere in everything, fortunately for that, I think we should be very grateful for that. I also believe that the Corona period has shown that we should be very grateful for it. We wouldn't have heard from Denmark's Private Schools if they thought that their sector was destroyed by this proposal. So I'm thinking we need to get the proportions in place. Conservatives asked a specific question as to whether we are going further than the Children's Convention. It is not the Ministry's opinion that we go further than the Children's Convention. I'm not a lawyer myself, so I've had to ask the good people in the ministry about that, but the assessment is that we're not going any further than the Children's Convention. Then the Left is asked whether we can look at the possibility of making it as easy and unbureaucratic as possible, so that there is no paper tiger on the back of this. I would just like to give an assurance from the Chair that we would, of course, like to take part in the work of the committee. Then it is said that this is an attack on the rights of free schools. I think it was the Danish People's Party that used that turn. I feel that it is a very good idea to give people rights, and if it is the case that the rights of institutions are contrary to human rights, then the institutions have a duty to give way. So this is a question of being allowed to be heard. I think there were a few rapporteurs, perhaps particularly Liberal Alliances, who made it sound as if the fact that they are being heard also means that as a free school you cannot print a student. But you can do that. What we are proposing here is that we be consulted and that is to say that we have the opportunity to express our own views on the situation. This does not mean that the school cannot still draw that conclusion if it is considered that it is the right consequence to take. It is actually incomprehensible to me, and I have thought of that sometimes, while this bill has been under way, that it has not happened in the past. However, I think that when you hear the debate in this Chamber today, you may still have an idea of why it has not happened in the past. But I think this should be something we could all support, and I think it is very positive that we have the support of the sector to go ahead with this. With the bill, we also ensure that the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament can use his general reaction options to deal with complaints about the school's printing of pupils. Overall, we in the government are very pleased that children and young people in free schools and private primary and secondary schools, free vocational schools and private colleges are now being guaranteed the right, finally, to be involved before a school makes such a decisive decision for their lives, i.e. a possible disclaimer of the pupil. The Danish People's Party says that they believe in the authority of the adult in making the final decision, and yes, so do I. However, in relation to what precedes that decision, I think it is a very good idea that the child has been consulted, of course on the basis of the child's age and maturity, but that as a child you have both been allowed to express your views, but in fact have also been explained what is going on around your ears. So of course it is the adult who has the authority. Of course it is ultimately the school that decides. However, I think it is a good idea that children and young people have the right to know what is going on around them and the right to make their views known as well. Thank you for the debate that has taken place so far and thanks to those who have expressed their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105130703	There are a few questions. First, it's from Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105130706	After all, it is no secret that the Minister is conducting an ideological crusade, both against private day-care institutions and against free choice in the field of high school, and I am sure that he would also like to spread it to a great many other areas and therefore cannot see why this bill is seriously mistrustful of these free primary schools and free secondary schools. That's what it is. I think the Minister owes us an answer. Because the hearings do not indicate that one disagrees with the point of view that I think none of us is there, namely that it is always a good idea to hear the child or, at least, to take the dialogue with the parents. It is not the case that you can read from the hearing answers that these people are screaming for legislation now. They simply state that this is a good idea. Wouldn't the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105130802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105130803	In other words, it was a secret to me that there should be the ideological crusade that the rapporteur is talking about. Now I am just reading out a few sentences from the consultation answer from Denmark's Private Schools, because I believe that the rapporteur is completely wrong in his analysis of the consultation answers that have been received. Denmark's Private Schools writes: "The Foundation therefore has no objection in principle to the proposal for the amendment of the law. That is to say, it is not just a matter of them thinking it is a good idea for the child to be involved. It is simply a matter of thinking that it is a good idea for there to be a change in the law on it. And then they write: "The service is particularly pleased that the bill tries to balance the consideration of the child's possibility of involvement with regard to the child's best interests, since these considerations can often be contradictory in the specific cases. It's just to say, it's not like they're bringing in some kind of courtesy thing. They go into the bill and say the things they now do in their hearing response. And I think that perhaps the rapporteur himself should take the discussion with Denmark's Private Schools about it too. I really think it is quite clear from their consultation answer that they take a relatively detailed position on it. So, in a long consultation answer which gives a good insight into what they think about it, their conclusion is that they have no fundamental objections to the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105130917	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105130918	They do not have any objections in principle, because they have to deal with the fact that there will be a legislative proposal on this matter. So that is essentially just what they have to deal with. This is, of course, about the fact that it is an area that should be quite natural, at least for bourgeois parties, to think that we should not legislate. It is quite natural if you have confidence in free schools and free colleges and, moreover, want to promote their ability to run the best school. And then I can completely agree with other rapporteurs that much more should be done to set the primary school much more free. But there's just nothing in this that's something that a good leader wouldn't do on his own. That is why it makes no sense to legislate on it at all. And it's a mistrust of the free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131004	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131005	Right now, I would say that it is the rapporteur who is distrustful of the private schools and the free schools. The rapporteur is now saying for the second time in this Chamber today that a good leader would do this on his own, but 37 per cent. Of them, it doesn't. New citizens set the standard that if you're a good leader, you do this by yourself, but 37 percent. Don't do it, and then I don't know how else to see it, because I can't understand it any other way. The Social Democrat rapporteur asked about this twice without really getting an answer. I believe that there have been and are good leaders out there, but that the framework has been as they have been, is a political responsibility, and that is why we are changing that framework now, because we believe that children should be involved. So the thing about jerking off the leaders in this way seems to me simply to run away from its responsibilities as elected representatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131059	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131100	I'm gonna have to straighten out the minister a little bit. I said in my speech that this is an attack on the freedom of free schools and not on their rights. That's pretty crucial. Then I also said in my speech and in my answers that the Danish People's Party supports the inclusion of pupils when they are to be printed or expelled, but that it is too violent and a major intervention and a detailed management of the free schools, and that therefore it should not be statutory, because then we can go on. Will the Minister then moderate his comments on the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131145	I am, of course, sorry if I have quoted the wrong words, because that was certainly not my intention. But the sentence applies in the same way. If you put the freedom of a school or an institution on the one hand, and that is contrary to a student's freedom on the other, then I believe that in that situation the institution has a duty to give way. I believe that when you are a child or a young person you should be able to be heard in connection with these things that are so crucial to your relationship. There is no doubt that it is extremely intrusive to remove a child from its ordinary school day, which means that the fundamental thing in this context is that some adults go in and do something about the child's freedom to be in the place that the child would like to be, and in that situation I think it is absolutely fundamental and reasonable to be heard. Then it may well be that the adults do it anyway, because the adults are the ones who have the authority and ultimately have to decide it, but of course the child must then be heard, and of course the children must have an explanation of what is going on around their ears. I think that is quite fundamental. I do not know whether the rapporteur saw it as a moderation of the statements; I have a feeling that the rapporteur does not, but at least it was an attempt to correct it if there was any quote that was wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131257	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131258	One might also fear that this is the first step on the road to a major frontal attack on free schools. In the election campaign, the Socialists proposed reducing the number of free schools to 10%, and that is why we are a little on guard in this Chamber. So the minister can actually just say on behalf of the government that the frontal attack on free schools has been abandoned, and then just accommodate the Danish People's Party by saying that yes, this bill is an interference in the freedom of free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131335	I don't recognize those ghosts being vilified here. So I find that difficult to answer, and I simply do not agree with the Danish People's Party about this bill; then I would not have tabled it, by its very nature. I think we have found a really good balance in that, as a school and as an adult, we should be able to make decisions, but vice versa, of course, we should also be involved as a child and as a young person, depending on how old we are, in relationships that concern you, that is to say that we should be heard and we should have the opportunity to understand what is going on around your ears. And there we do not think that the situation is satisfactory as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131414	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131430	The debate is open and the first to speak is Mrs Tanja Larsson, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131501	Thank you. Now we have to go to the whole of three proposals together in one. It may be difficult to find the common thread, but all the proposals are nevertheless sensible proposals, and they lead to an agreement in the public school circle from March 2020. I will start with the first part, which is also the largest, and which concerns the possibility of taking out a course other than sport for pupils with long-term disability or serious illness. Fortunately, the bill only applies to a very small group of students. On the other hand, it's a group for whom this is incredibly important. Today, the primary school's graduation examination is a prerequisite for obtaining a legal requirement for admission to an upper secondary education, and you cannot pass the graduation examination if you have not completed all the exams. This is, from the outset, very good, but for a small group of students who have a long-term disability or a serious illness, it can have major consequences. They cannot participate in sports education. For that group, we now make it possible to draw a different subject from sport, in the natural bloc, so that they can pass the primary school's graduation examination. It is only right that this group of children who already face difficult challenges should now have a real opportunity to receive youth education on an equal footing with the other classmates. One thing that is good about the proposal here is that it does not only help those who are unable to participate in sport. At the same time, it places a responsibility on schools to do all they can to involve a student in sport education. It must never be the case that pupils are exempt from sport because the school has not done enough. It is equally important to offer an alternative to young people who absolutely cannot participate, because it is equally important to ensure that all young people who can participate are also involved. I am pleased about this, because it also requires schools to be better able to incorporate disability sport. The second part is about privateists. They must have the opportunity to audition at the eighth grade in the practical and musical subjects, in the same way as you can do in the ninth grade. It is quite reasonable in my view that they should, of course, have that opportunity if they so wish. Their possibilities should not, of course, be limited by the school's range of subjects. The third and final part is a technical thing. It is about the process of school reunification. I will not delve into the specific technical adjustments here. It's gonna be too long and probably a little too boring. Instead, I note that the current process is inappropriate, hasty and bureaucratic. Now we're changing it to make it easier and less bureaucratic. We remove a link, so to speak, so that you do not need to set up a temporary board, but so that you can merge and create a new management in the same round. So a total of three different laws. However, it is common to them that we in the Social Democrats support all three of them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131818	We thank the rapporteur. And I just want to say that, of course, nothing is boring up here. It may be too far, in relation to the speaking time, but of course nothing is boring in here in the Parliamentary Chamber • not very often at least. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Stén Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131837	Thank you. Let me make it clear right away that the Left can back this very fine proposal. And, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, it consists of three elements. In other words, if you are exempt from sports, religion, German or French, and thus cannot take a degree in those subjects, then you can also have difficulty in entering youth education. With this proposal, we will ensure that we can then draw some other subjects into the science bloc or in the humanist bloc, and that makes a great deal of sense. As far as sport is concerned, at least the Minister knows that if someone cares about sport in primary school, then it is the rapporteur here. And this must not be the case that even more people are, what to say, put aside when the others are doing sports. And I think we also have a common obligation to be able to hold each other up so that this does not happen in our primary school, even after this proposal is adopted. It also extends access to primary school rehearsals as a privateist. We can pay tribute to that and then it is a regulatory simplification, which we also think is a very good idea, so we think it is a good proposal and we support it, as I said earlier. And I should like to greet the Conservatives and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105131959	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105132006	Thank you, President. It was an excellent little deal we had made in the time, and of course the Danish People's Party can continue to support it. And that is, of course, what other rapporteurs have also said, a quite simple arrangement. That is to say that there are some students who for one reason or another, among others. long-term physical impairments or a serious illness, as it says, have not been able to take part in the teaching and which should nevertheless have undergone the examination; they could not be exempted. They will now be able to go to another subject in the future, and that is, of course, a good solution to things that have been a little mysterious. After all, we were somewhat surprised when we were presented with it in the conciliation circle: that cannot be right, we thought. But it could be right, and then we changed it. It's when the people's government works best. It is actually a pleasure: we have all agreed on this. Then there have also been some problems with pupils who are exempt from French or German because they have learning difficulties or other difficulties. And the students who have been exempted from Christianity because the parents are asking for it now have the opportunity to go to another subject within the humanist bloc, which is quite reasonable. Then we are also pleased with the small changes regarding the musical-practical subjects The technical simplifications I will not go into in this speech, so overall this is a fine little bill, which we in the Danish People's Party of course continue to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105132149	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical, and it is as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105132205	Thank you. It is a useful little proposal • or small it is not; it is relatively large • for it helps a group of students: If the education of sports is drawn up as an examination subject, then there are children who are so disabled that they are not able to take part in the education of sports, and then they should be able to get another offer. And that is what rules are set for. We are very much in favour of this from the Radical Left. It is very sensible what is described here. Then there is another small proposal, which is not so innocent again, namely how to take over the tradition of rural areas in Denmark, namely that the small school and the small daycare centre can have joint management if both the parents' group of the two institutions agreed on this. And it makes sense to try to find a solution to it today, where it is more complex and where we may encounter more schools being added together because of changes in population, etc. and so on, and where one can then be tempted to join a day-care institution with them. And there needs to be a set of rules for that. We are very much in agreement with that, but it is a little complicated to explain this from the platform, so I will avoid that, but just give notice to the Minister that we would like to focus on that and find out how to see it, that is to say what is going to happen here. We are positive about the idea and would like to contribute. But I don't see the model here working quite as well as I could wish for it. So I merely give notice to the Minister that we will return to it in the course of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105132344	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105132352	Thank you. Our school and education system in Denmark must of course be able to accommodate all children, and children with disabilities must have the same opportunities as their classmates to complete primary and later secondary education and higher education. That is why it is very important that we amend and correct legislation when we become aware that barriers arise which lead to unequal opportunities for all children and young people to receive education. Parents of children with muscle loss wrote a letter to us rapporteurs, and they've also been in here in the deputation about this particular problem and this desire, and now we're gonna change this for the benefit of those children. It is a bill that is of great importance to a small group of children who, because of their severe disability, cannot complete the exam in sport. Because you have to have the primary school's degree in order to have a legal right to be admitted to an upper secondary education, it is crucial that they can be allowed to go to the exam in another subject instead. At the same time, however, it is also important for us in the SF to emphasise that exemption from the examination of sport must not be an end in itself. Equal opportunities for all children also means that all children must have the opportunity to face challenges in sport and be part of the community regardless of their disability. Children must be presented with and aware of their opportunities for sports participation, both in parasport and in association sport. Both schools and association sport have a responsibility to ensure this. With that I can say that we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105132521	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105132529	Thank you. The draft law here is not least the result of the strenuous efforts of a group of parents for students with muscle loss who, several years ago, set out to change the rules for the testing of sports for students with extensive physical disabilities. The parents in question experienced that their children were exposed to, or at least had a potential risk of being exposed to unfair discrimination by not being exempt from trial in a profession in which they obviously did not have real opportunities to participate. This was the case with the parents, and I agree with them that the changes to the primary school law in 2016 made it a condition for the admission of a student to a youth education course that he had completed a full graduation examination in the primary school. We have been in agreement with the parents all the way through, and that is why we are very pleased that the bill is here. I think it is worth highlighting some of the comments which are also made in a number of the consultation responses about the importance of organising sports education in a way similar to all other teachings, so that the vast majority of pupils with physical disabilities can participate in the teaching. As several speakers have already pointed out, this is a proposal aimed solely at a small group. I believe there is broad support for the fact that the need to have an inclusive approach to pupils with disabilities, even when teaching sports, is extremely important. But this is a small group of pupils who, although they have access to compensatory aids, are not actually able to participate in the teaching. It has been mentioned that it is a small yes, it has varied a little bit of a bill, but I would at least stress that it is extremely important for this group of pupils and for their parents, because they find that something that was unfairly pressured on them, and because it is in itself a strange situation that they have to go to exams in something where they have not participated in the teaching, and also the potential pressure that could be on the pupils concerned in relation to their admission to a youth education. For the sake of order, I must say that I do not want to make any further comments on the fact that we also support the other elements of the proposal here and that therefore Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105132834	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105132842	I would agree with the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten that it is not so often that this happens. It's always good when you can meet about something, and I think we can certainly do that with this bill; that is, the very thing that may well be that it's a small bill, but it's actually something that has an incredibly important meaning for those to whom it relates. As I have also tired the rapporteurs with earlier in the day, I myself have been many years in the Danish primary school. And I would just like to welcome how amazing I think teachers and, by the way, students generally take care of those who have some challenges, both physical disabilities and others. I don't think there's anything as spacious and as flexible as children. They meet with curiosity, and then they find out things together and together. That, of course, is also what needs to be done, i.e. this flexibility when it comes to the exam. I would say that this is simply a common sense of sport education; because, of course, if you cannot take part in the teaching for physical reasons, then of course you do not have to take a degree in it either. I myself attended a primary school where there was a boy who was physically handicapped, but we never thought of him that way. We decorated, and we found flexible solutions for exercise days and everything else, so that he was part of the community that was in the class and that, of course, it should be. Of course, we support this bill, and I would also like to welcome the fact that we are concluding a day of many legislative proposals with a fine legislative proposal which allows for something that should be quite common sense but good, we are getting it right now at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105133037	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105133047	Thank you for the floor. The German philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel says somewhere in the phenomenonology of the Spirit that Minerva's owl flies in dusk, and it's like everything Hegel wrote, such a somewhat enigmatic quote. What does it mean that Minerva's owl flies in the twilight? Yes, it means a little the same thing Winston Churchill said about the Americans, namely that they always do the right thing when they have exhausted all other options. The quotation must therefore be understood in the sense that wisdom waits for itself to walk on the wings, but eventually, when there is nothing else to do, wisdom nevertheless goes on the wings. And so it is with the Folketing. Because when we simply can't come up with anything else, and when all the possibilities are exhausted, we sit down and make pragmatic and sensible legislative proposals, we must of course also be hard-pressed, but we do it and we have done it in this case. I do not know how to measure whether legislative proposals are large or small, but this is enough, with all due respect, not a bill drawing the big headlines, at least not today, and probably not tomorrow, and perhaps not in reality in a year like 2020. However, this is a good legislative proposal and, as most other rapporteurs have also said, it is quite full of common sense and pragmatism, which is why we naturally support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105133240	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. And I have to say, for the sake of good order, that a small bill is sometimes more important than a very big bill. That's the way it is in general. It may well be that the big legislative proposals fill a lot in the pile, but a small bill can be of great importance. Then it's the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105133302	Thank you for that, and it is as true as it has been said, because for the individuals this affects and for their families, there is no doubt at all that this is a major legislative proposal. Then it is true that, unfortunately, this is not going to draw headlines, but it is doing so for the lives of the children and the families involved. That is why I think it is extremely important that we do this and I welcome the fact that we stand together and share it in the Danish Parliament, and when we succeed in unifying Enhedslisten and New Citizens, the world is almost out of the picture. Fortunately, when we have these very broad assemblies behind it, it is also something that we can see for many years, and that means that we have somehow created a newly-acquired right here. I do not think we should ignore the importance to them of this. Thank you for the debate that has also taken place. It is true that this bill is a rather cooked dish. We have that from time to time. Here we had three different things, but in the same area that we put together in this bill. But it's clear that the dominant ingredient in this bill is the possibility of taking out a profession other than sport for the students with long-term disability or illness. That is also what most rapporteurs attach importance to. The aim of the proposal to draw up another subject is, of course, to ensure a fair and proper solution for the small group of pupils who, due to long-term disability or serious illness, are unable to participate in sports education. You can't graduate from primary school if you haven't taken all the tests. Those are the rules. And the elementary school's graduation is now a starting point and a prerequisite for admission to a youth education. These may then include children who are paralyzed from the neck down, or children with severe muscle loss. It is, of course, a small group of pupils that we are talking about, about the year and at national level, but although it affects only a few, we need to get the legislation done in a way that is fair and proper and that is not going to stumble out of some people who we basically want to have the best possible lives and, as far as possible, have the same opportunities as all other children and young people, including in their education. It is not just a question of the students not being tested in a practical test in sport. The group we are talking about here cannot even participate in the sports classes, because sport education often takes place outside, and the unreliable and sometimes stubborn Danish weather can in fact also be a problem for some in this group in itself. Therefore, it is not always possible to sit in the classroom and therefore, in our opinion, they should not be tested by a theoretical test either. The draft law allows them to draw a completely different subject from sport into the natural bloc, so that they will have the opportunity to pass the primary school's final examination and thus actually have the opportunity to apply for admission to the various upper secondary educations. It's only fair and fair. There may be some who think that every time there is a student who is bothered with sports classes or has a slight disability, they will let them draw another subject • SF's rapporteur mentioned it and asked about the group which is actually able to participate • but there are schools unchanged obligations in the way they have always been. It is therefore not intended that a broad group of pupils may be allowed to take another course. The schools have a duty to organize the teaching so that everyone who can be involved can attend. What is the challenge here is that some people actually cannot be involved. That's why this amendment of the law. In the bill we have also made it possible for privatemen to take the 8th grade exam in the practical-music subjects, and they can take the 9th grade tests. I do not really think there is so much more to add than that, that they must of course have the opportunity if they want to. Thirdly, the draft law provides for a simplification of the rules governing the aggregation of schools. We ensure that schools can be put together and have joint management with another form of institution, for example. day care, leisure and youth school, in an unbureaucratic way. Basically, we want to make the merger less difficult by doing so in a round rather than in several stages. There is no reason to make it more troublesome than that, but I could understand that in the context of the committee work, the Radical Left will have some comments on it. I am, of course, fully committed to this and look forward to receiving input from Mrs Marianne Jelved. I think we should certainly discuss this. All in all, it is a bill with three very different ingredients. It is common to them that I think it was New Citizens' rapporteur who said it, and it is not often that I can quote the rapporteur and agree with her, so we should welcome the days when we agree that it is common sense that we change the law in this way. I think we should welcome this together. Thank you for the commitment to support, and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105133814	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201105133829	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 6 November 2020 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
