ParlaMint-DK_20201204100017	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 103 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the age limit for fertility treatment). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). With the consent of the author of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 103 is referred directly to the Committee on Health and the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The Minister for Education and Research (Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen) has informed me that she wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the research and innovation area 2020. R 10). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204100100	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. The consent is granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204100151	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 8 December. For the explanatory statement it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204100217	Thank you. This autumn, for me, will clearly be the autumn when it was chiseled in stone that we have not solved the problem of sexual harassment in the Danish labour market. Extensive petitions, calls and testimonies across industries have documented that sexual harassment and sexism are a widespread and serious problem. Studies have shown the same. Thousands have called out. Now we owe it to listen, now we owe it to act, because there is a rotten culture that we must have done away with. When so many come forward with experiences of condescending speech, unwanted touch and direct abuse during their working lives, it must be clear to everyone that we are far from achieving real equality in Denmark. It is especially young people who are low-paid and women with a loose link to the labour market who are at particular risk of being subjected to sexual harassment. Student assistants, trainees, pupils and apprentices, newly trained and new employees and people in short and insecure employment are among the most vulnerable in the labour market. These are some of the ones we need to protect, and it cannot be right that such a rotten culture should be so badly affected. This problem cannot be reduced to a single workplace or a single industry. It is clear that it is a social problem, a structural problem. In his opening speech not long ago, the Prime Minister said that the uprising that is under way must not end up being an update of the employee manual, that this time culture must change. I very much agree with the Prime Minister here, but fine speeches do not do so alone either. If we are serious about sexual harassment, yes, about the lack of equality in general, we need political action and legislative initiatives. That is why I have called for this debate on the question so that we can have a political debate on what we can do to ensure that there is now the change in culture that many people are sighing for, so that we do not have to be harassed in the future at our workplace, and so that we take those who are still seriously. We have been in the SF for a long time fighting for change. Yeah, we've been yelling at them for years. And now we have an opportunity for real political change, and we hope that the rest of the parliamentary parties will be involved. If it were up to the SF, we should both prevent sexual harassment in working life and support the victims better. Employers should have so-called indirect objective responsibility so that employers can be held responsible for harassment which they could have avoided by preventive initiatives. Then we must support victims of sexual harassment and raise the level of compensation. That's our take on what we can do. I can't wait to hear yours. The time has come for cultural change and for action. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204100511	Thank you. That was the explanatory statement, and then we get the answer, and that is the Minister for Employment and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204100523	Thank you very much for calling this inquiry debate. This is a discussion with the Folketing, which I have been looking forward to very much. And, of course, I do, in particular, because of the very important and serious nature of the issue. As you all know, today's question debate is about how the government and the Folketing together can help prevent sexual harassment throughout society, including in particular at the Danish workplaces. And thank you for giving us the opportunity to have that debate. A number of studies have shown in recent years that particularly young women, but also men, are subjected to sexual harassment at the workplace. Sofie Lindes's call for sexual harassment in the media industry at Zulu Comedy Galla in August really sparked the debate in Denmark, and it was both needed and necessary. A number of women got the courage to come forward and tell about their experiences. After all, the many women and their stories clearly show that abuse and sexual harassment are not only a problem in one industry and in one workplace; it is a problem in many industries and in many jobs. Some women have kept it to themselves in fear of the consequences if it came out. Others have experienced that it had no consequences for those who had violated them, and there are women who do not feel that there is any help at all. We must, of course, act on this, because this is not the way it should be in Denmark. It is also important to me that we now spread the debate to some of the groups of employees who have not filled so much in the media. Because we can see from studies that it is the low-paid and those with the shortest education that are most severely affected by sexual harassment. These are the waitress at the restaurants, the secretaries of the offices and the apprentices at the construction sites. They also need help. First of all, cultural change is needed in individual workplaces and educational institutions, so that we have a safe and respectful workplace culture. The government will support the necessary cultural change with 14 initiatives, which I published on 25 November. Here we focus on both strengthening prevention, detection and consequences in cases of sexual harassment both in the labour market and in educational institutions. Among other things, the government will: form an alliance with relevant organisations, NGOs and social partners to ensure a sustained focus on sexual harassment and the necessary cultural change. The Alliance will be able to share knowledge and make recommendations to support cultural change. In addition, we will enable all employees in Denmark to tell about sexual harassment and violation through a new whistleblower scheme to be set up in connection with the implementation of the EU's whistleblower directive in Denmark. In the future, the work of the Labour Inspectorate must also be an integral part of measuring and assessing how individual jobs find and deal with sexual harassment cases. And then the government comes up with a series of initiatives in the field of education aimed at raising the awareness of teachers and pupils of sexual harassment and, above all, of pupils' rights. As a key issue, I would like to call the social partners for tripartite discussions on the prevention of sexual harassment. I do so because I have a very strong belief in the Danish model and in the value of the social partners finding solutions together when there are challenges. The model has proved its worth in recent difficult months, when the parties have managed to find answers to challenges that neither of us has been able to foresee, and I note that there is a great deal of agreement between employers and employees that there is a need for very significant changes. I expect that agreement to be translated into concrete results in the trialogue discussions. With the amendment of the Equal Treatment Act in 2019, it was agreed that the level of compensation in cases of sexual harassment should be evaluated 2 years after its introduction. That work is starting now with the trialogues where we intend to hold the first meeting before Christmas. I will discuss with the parties their experience of increasing the level of compensation and whether it has had an effect on the number of cases of sexual harassment. And I would ask the parties to contribute knowledge and data to elucidate the impact of the increased level of remuneration. And if it turns out that there is a need to increase the compensation further, the government will of course look at it. I will also discuss with the parties how best to ensure that employers use existing employment law tools if the infringement has occurred, so that it has the necessary consequence. It can, for example, be done. be through a code of conduct that can help to ensure that the right and necessary decisions are taken. Because it must have a noticeable consequence if an employee has been subjected to sexual harassment. The need for increased responsibility from the employer is also one of the themes that I expect to address with the parties. And I am well aware that the parties do not agree on this point, which is why I am also looking forward to hearing the employer's proposals on how to ensure better prevention and more consistency in individual jobs. SF also wants answers to which legislative initiatives the government will initiate in order for the Folketing to contribute. I fully acknowledge the honourable Member's wish to participate in and contribute to the necessary cultural change, which we all agree must and must take place. Because it is an essential point that each of us can help to change the patterns and behaviour that, unfortunately, can lead to sexual harassment being tolerated and not being consistently stopped. At the same time, I hope that there will be support in the Folketing for the important discussions that I want with the social partners and which I will, of course, inform Parliament's parties about on a regular basis. I am, of course, open to hearing Parliament's input into the trialogues, and I look forward to today's discussion. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101120	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. Now there is the possibility of one brief remark from each of the general rapporteurs. First it's Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101129	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine speech. Sexual harassment is totally unacceptable; we fully agree on that. What I would like to ask the Minister is whether the Minister, on the basis of SF's presentation about indirect objective responsibility and we have also seen that the trade union movement has been out of it, may be concerned about the proposal, i.e. whether indirect objective responsibility is too far-reaching and would mean stricter demands on the employer for proof that harassment could not have been avoided by preventive action.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101206	When we are dealing with social problems, which are very big, the Folketing is of course an essential and crucial tool, but one of the best instruments we have for some of the issues relating to the labour market is our tripartite institution, and I think that this very question is something that it is very, very important to have a thorough discussion between the employer, the worker and, of course, the government, so that you have a common understanding of what this concept really means. So, I can listen to in the debate that there are slightly different definitions and also slightly different types of fear or expectation of what an indirect objective responsibility will entail. I hear some people say that it is primarily about securing measures that take into account the prevention of sexual harassment, and I hear some people have a conceptual understanding that goes even further. I think it is important that there should be agreement between the employer and the worker if it is a tool we need to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101311	Then it's Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101312	Thank you. I'm just wondering if we'll see eye to eye on a little point. After all, the Minister for Gender Equality is also the Minister for Employment, and in the Left we are pleased that the Minister has called for tripartite negotiations. We just want to make sure that the Minister agrees that this is primarily a health and safety issue, which is why we have a clear expectation that the health and safety partners, i.e. the conciliation parties, will subsequently be called into the circle there. Is that something the Minister is also looking to the left?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101347-2	It is clear that there are a number of initiatives which are also included in the 14 government initiatives, which simply relate to the working environment, including the Factory Inspectorate's activities, and there may also be more to the question of involving the Factory Inspectorate further. It is clear that this concerns and must be done with the involvement of the health and safety committee. Then there may be other conditions outside the occupational health and safety circle, in other contexts, and then you take it there. But Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard is quite right that this is a very, very important question of health and safety at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101433	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101434	Thank you. And thank the Minister for taking this issue really seriously. I'm really glad. I would like to ask you about this with a raised level of compensation, because the Minister says that if there is a need, you would like to look at it. But I want to hear what the Minister thinks about the fact that a great many of the women who are successful in their case and get through the judicial system end up losing their jobs afterwards because they simply cannot stand at the workplace where they have been subjected to sexual harassment. Does the Minister not consider the average amount of DKK 33,000? is very low, since a lot of people are losing their jobs on the basis of these cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101507	I think that several parts of the statistics on sexual abuse and harassment in the labour market have made a great impression on me. The first is the extent to which the number of cases is much greater in the lower income deci sions. You get a look and I also had it in my introduction that this is essentially a huge problem among those groups in the labour market that have low wages and short courses. The second is that very, very few cases are brought forward at all and, as Mrs Carøe says, the few cases that are then brought forward either result in reports of illness or, for that matter, completely cease to work. Of course, these issues also need to be discussed when we discuss reimbursement, but I also think it is important that we have an evaluation of how the increased level of compensation has worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101619	Then it's Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101620	Thank you and thank the Minister for a very good speech and for taking this issue seriously. In the Radical Left, we are quite concerned about this increased employer responsibility, and we are also concerned that the compensation should be increased. However, another aspect of the matter is that there are shop stewards and occupational health and safety representatives in the workplace, and it may be that the Minister will put a few words on how he expects it to enter into discussions with the social partners as well. Finally, I would also like to hear whether the Minister will put a few words on these very famous silence clauses that are being used. Is this something that the Minister expects to be part of the discussion with the parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101707	I would like to start by saying that the first part of Mrs Samira Nawa's question relates a little to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard's question, because right now there is work going on and work needs to be intensified around a new and strengthened working environment organisation in the workplace. It's something that, among other things. is an offshoot of the working environment compromise, and in this way it has a relation to the whole of the health and safety policy. Therein lies the government's desire for a strengthened role for health and safety representatives and shop stewards, etc. And that is also true in cases where colleagues have been sexually violated and where they must be protected. In relation to these silence agreements, I would say that this clearly, I think, is also an issue that will be raised under the tripartite agreements. In other words, it is not something that is, as it were, written down in some places where there is a decision on it, but it is still something that is going on out there, and that is why, I expect, it will clearly become part of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101817	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. We shall now proceed to the debate and therefore to the general rules for short remarks. First of all, Mrs Astrid Carøe, the rapporteur of the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204101831	Thank you. I am really pleased to hear that the new Minister for Gender Equality now has 14 initiatives in the post to combat sexual harassment on the way. In the SF we have long fought for change and we are so for me and for the SF it is important for employers to be responsible for preventing and for raising the level of compensation for victims. We hope that the government will take this to the next trialogue negotiations. Let me start with the responsibility of the employers. Here I am asking the government to work to introduce so-called objective employer responsibility by law so that employers can be held responsible for harassment by colleagues, managers, customers, clients or others if it could have been avoided by preventive initiatives. Today, the rules are simply such that the employer can only be held responsible if he has witnessed the sexual harassment or knowledge that it took place without acting. With indirect objective employer responsibility, we increase employers' responsibility for making binding efforts to prevent sexism and sexual harassment. This will mean that policies will be developed in the workplace and that initiatives will be taken to counteract and prevent sexism, sexual harassment and rotten culture from arising. Policies against sexual harassment must be known to everyone in the workplace and must be an active tool in discussions on culture at the workplace. It should not just be an employee manual that is stored in the closet; it must be followed by an active action for a healthy culture and well-being, and it is best ensured by giving employers responsibility. It is quite obvious that this action against sexual harassment will lead to a better working environment and thus have a positive effect not only for the individual but also for the workplace and for society. Because degrading treatment does not help to give it an extra shell in the office, that you do your very best on the construction site, that you want to use all your skills when you are on duty at the hospital. The whole of society wins by a good working environment without cross-border language and inappropriate touching. Let us now get rid of guilt and shame, especially for the young loose and low-paid women who are subjected to sexual harassment and sexism in the workplace. Let us now place responsibility with the employer. However, it is also important that we take the victims seriously and ensure proper compensation if you are still subjected to sexual harassment. In January 2019 we increased the compensation to victims of sexual harassment from an average of 25,000 DKK. for 33,000 kroner. That doesn't seem to be enough. 33,000 kroner. is an enormously small allowance if you have come all the way through the judicial system and have been successful in your case. After all, it is often the victims of sexual harassment who end up having to leave the workplace and thus take the fall for the bad behaviour of others. It is not because money makes someone who has been harassed whole again, but the level of compensation in cases of sexual harassment is today so low that it does not give the victim a real chance to get back on his feet, especially if you lose the job, as many do. A concrete proposal that the government can take with it is that we triple the level of compensation. It will be a level that makes it easier to get back on your feet after you have been subjected to sexual harassment. As I said at the outset, there must be political action and legislative initiatives to put an end to sexual harassment in the Danish labour market. I am pleased that the new minister will act and I would ask the Minister to include the introduction of indirect objective employer responsibility and a significant increase in the level of compensation in his initiatives. Finally, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption by the SF, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten: Proposals for adoption The problems of sexism and sexual harassment are a widespread and serious problem in the Danish labour market. The Danish Parliament notes that a number of studies make it clear that it is especially young women and women in vulnerable positions or with loose links to the labour market and low-wage groups who are at particular risk of being harassed. Parliament notes that the government is planning a series of initiatives to combat sexual harassment, including the convening of trialogues, which include: are to be discussed so-called indirect objective responsibility so that employers can be held responsible for harassment which could have been avoided by appropriate measures, as well as an increase in the level of compensation for victims. The government must involve the Folketing in the work on the initiatives and the outcome of the trialogue discussions. The Danish Parliament stresses that preventive and cultural-altering initiatives are necessary if the problems of sexual harassment are to be addressed and that a special focus is needed on sectors with precarious employment conditions and low-wage groups. • V 30).
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102338	Thank you. And that will now be part of the further debate. Then we have brief comments. The first one's from sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102344	Thank you. I find it interesting that the SF believes that there should be higher benefits for the victims. That's a good thought. Does this also apply to victims of violence? We're gonna have to raise that, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102359	I'm not aware of how tall it is for victims of violence. But if it isn't comfortable either, given that you can get back on your feet after the case you've had, then I'm sure that's something we need to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102411	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102412	Thank you. Then I can inform you that it is actually historically low. What level does SF think this compensation should be on? Now they mentioned what the current one was on. What's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102425	We have proposed that the compensation granted to victims of sexual harassment should be tripled.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102432	Then it's Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102435	I would just like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on having taken up this important debate. Of course, I also have some questions. Because I understand that what you are interested in and what you see as one of the ways to solve the problem of sexual harassment is to look at the employer and their responsibilities. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur cannot tell us all what kind of responsibility the employer has today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102506	As I also mentioned, it is the case that the employer can only be held responsible today if you are a direct witness and thus experience the sexual harassment taking place, or have been informed of it and are not acting on it. What we are saying now is that we want to prevent, so that the employer will have to take preventive action in the future. So if there is sexual harassment in the workplace and this is something that could have been avoided by preventive initiatives, then you can also hold the employer responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102534	Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102536	I do not quite think I agree. I mean, I'm an educated lawyer, and that's where you learn about the basis of responsibility in yourself. And what employers really do have today is an extended basis of responsibility for what is called an objective responsibility. This means that they are liable, whether they are guilty or not, whether they have acted culpably or otherwise. I just think we should bring that. And we have just to mention that there is a much wider basis of responsibility already with an employer today, and that is exactly what I wanted to make sure the rapporteur knew.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102611	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102612	Obviously, that is not good enough. Not enough preventive initiatives are being taken to change this culture, which is widespread in our society. So we are proposing that there should be this preventive indirect objective responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102627	Then it is Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102630	Thank you. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on raising this important debate. It's important. What worries me a little on the part of the rapporteur is how much legislation it takes before the rapporteur is really satisfied in this area. And does the rapporteur believe that legislation will change that culture? I think that is really what this is about, that is, a change in culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102658	This is certainly about a change in culture, and I believe that legislation can contribute to that. I am not satisfied until loose workers, young people and low-paid groups no longer experience this sexual harassment, as you look at a great many jobs. And that is why legislation is necessary and we need to be able to place more responsibility on the employer for the culture that we must, of course, have changed. But this is a step on the way to changing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102725	Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102726	In relation to this proposal for indirect objective responsibility: how is this to be done in practice? Is the rapporteur not nervous about that? Well, in Denmark we are allowed to reverse the burden of proof. It is not because I do not want to see more people behave properly in the workplace, but I just think it is fundamental in our legal society. So, with regard to this issue of indirect objective responsibility, does the rapporteur not believe that prevention is the right way to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102806	Yeah, that's right. I believe that prevention is the right way to go, and that is why we are saying that employers should do so. And if they don't, they can be held accountable. So it is basically about saying that you have to do it in advance. The rapporteur asks how this should be done. It is, for example. to hold some meetings about what policies are at work • that you have some policies, that you actively talk about these things instead of just having it standing in an employee manual. So this is a preventive responsibility. And I am not concerned about the legal situation, because the employer must prevent it, and you can then prove in a court case that they have not done so, but it is not because you turn it over in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102848	Then it's Fatma Øktem, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102850	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for raising this debate in a very important debate and I think that very many places in Denmark have really taken it in. We are debating it and companies are thinking about it. Does the rapporteur not believe that this will help to change culture? Because I can be a tiny bit nervous when we say to employers: if something happens, it's your responsibility. The responsibility lies primarily with those who commit the act. That's what we need to get rid of. We should not start to monitor each other in our actions, but ensure that people behave properly. Because I guess that's what this is about. I can get a little worried when the rapporteur says that I am satisfied first, and I will use the legislation for that when it no longer takes place. Can the rapporteur not be concerned about what it will also put out of pressure in companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204102949	First of all, in relation to this talk we have had over the last few months, it is not enough: unfortunately, I do not think so. This isn't the first time we've had this talk. There has also been a song in the past that we do not find ourselves in sexual harassment, and there was a metoo in 2017. And we see that it is still taking place. So there is a need for us to do something more. And we can already see that it is not as exciting for the media and that it is not as exciting to be here today as it was a month ago. So, in order not to forget this book, we need to make legislation, some initiatives, so that there can still be a change in culture. Then I do not remember what the rapporteur asked about that any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103028	Here you go, Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103030	Well, we also want to get rid of this, there's no doubt about that. It is not because I say that it shall die; it shall not. We need to keep talking about this. It shouldn't be inconvenient to go to work. You shouldn't have a stomach ache when you go to work. And people must behave properly... it must not be a condition on the labour market that your superiors do something or that there is an abuse of power in the workplace. What we just think may be a bit worrying is what is being imposed on employers. Because it is true that it is basically bad governance if you do not catch that there is a bad culture. Culture is the responsibility of management. But can the rapporteur give other examples of this than holding meetings and talking about it, because I think you do that in many places? Can the rapporteur give some other examples of what employers can do that is not enough today?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103125	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103126	I think the rapporteur is quite right in saying that it is being done in many places today, but there are also places where it is not being done. And that's why it's important that we talk about these things, both so that there's a change in culture, and so that attention is drawn to what you can actually do if you're exposed to these things. Well, honestly, it is, as I mentioned in my speech, a gift to society if this does not happen anymore. Because you don't give it an extra shell if you get a stomachache from going to work. And it must also be in the interests of employers to do this preventive work. But now we're just gonna make sure they do it if you get this employer responsibility done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103202	Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103204	Thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur and the SF for bringing this debate up. It's important, even here a month after it had the press's full attention. I very much agree that women in loose and low-wage jobs are in a very vulnerable position, but I would also like to hear whether the rapporteur does not want to say a few words about whether it is not true that we have to tackle this issue in all sectors, regardless of wage levels, because it must be equally painful and equally offensive to experience sexism and metoo, whether you are in a high-paid position or in a low-paid position.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103252	I totally agree. I don't think there's much difference, but there's a big difference between how much you experience it. We can see from studies that these are women in low-wage groups and in loose employment • especially young women and women in education • who are exposed to these things, and that is why that is what I have been focusing on. But, of course, no matter what position you have, you should not be subjected to sexual harassment, and we must, of course, go all the way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103318	Samira Nawa? All right, then we thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for a brief comment. Then we move on, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103335	First, I want to thank the SF for bringing up this important discussion. So far, the debate on sexual harassment has mostly been about the media industry, actors, politicians. We have experienced people with unacceptable behaviour towards women, including in our own industry as politicians, and I also know how my colleagues here are subjected to sexual harassment on the Internet and how they experience condescending remarks about their gender when they take part in the public debate, not least on this issue. It is quite unreasonable that this should be so, and everyone has a responsibility to take it seriously and to fight sexism, and we must continue to focus on the problem, including here in our own ranks. Having said that, it is important not to forget ordinary people in this debate, who often experience exactly the same, and often things that are worse, without having the same platform as well-known people when they want to shout up. Recently, a study by the TrygFonden showed how many women, especially those with low-wage jobs and a loose link to the labour market, are subjected to serious sexual harassment and in several cases have been forced into intercourse. We must not accept this, and we must focus much more on it, and we must fight it together. The Social Democratic Party therefore welcomes the fact that the government has invited discussions with the social partners in order to find common solutions to combat sexual abuse. We look forward to the debate and to the cooperation with the parties of the Folketing to stand together against all kinds of violations, no matter where in society they take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103454	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment to be made about Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103459	I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur himself believes that more legislation is needed in order to solve this problem, or whether it is more that we get to the individual workplace and then change the culture out there and that it is out there that you have to take it. Or does the rapporteur think that we can resolve it in here with more legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103521	I firmly believe that dialogue between the social partners is one of the best. That is why these negotiations have also been called for. My impression is that both the trade union movement and the employers actually take this seriously. But it must also be said that there are some very serious examples and evidence of very serious cases, so I do not want to deny that legislation can be part of the solution, but not all of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103540	Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103542	Can the rapporteur just comment on the type of legislation he is thinking of?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103548	After all, the government has put forward a number of initiatives, and then we have to have a dialogue. But that is what the trialogues are all about, so it should be something that everyone can see themselves in. But no, again, I don't think you can legislate out of it all. But I would also like to say that it is so serious that I hope that both sides of the labour market can see that something has to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103607	Then it is Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103609	Thank you. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is in favour of indirect objective responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103618	Once again, it depends on how this is to be understood. I think it is important that we also do something preventive at individual workplaces. And I think it's a management responsibility to do this. In relation to the question of exactly how this will happen, I think that we should have a great deal of respect for the fact that negotiations have been convened and hopefully we will have a dialogue on this and find common solutions, both with the social partners and with the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103636	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103637	Does the rapporteur agree that the burden of proof will then be reversed, i.e. indirect, objective liability if it is introduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103648-2	Depends on what you mean by that. If this is to be understood, as I also think the SF, which was asked about the same thing, came to the point where you do some pre-emptive things, then I do not think it is. But, of course, it must be able to hold a trial... that's clear. And my impression is also that, in the light of the meetings I have had with employers and also with the trade union, this is taken seriously and that we also want to do something more. This also applies to the employers' side.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103708	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we now move on to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204103726	Thank you. There should be no doubt that we in the Left believe that everyone in Denmark should be able to go to work safely without fear of sexual abuse. But as it is repeatedly made clear, it is far from being the case today. In recent times brave women and men have stood up and have told of experiences of insulting behaviour, a humiliating tone of association and a working culture that can only cause one to shake one's head. We cannot close our eyes to it and tell ourselves that this is not happening, because it does. Sexual harassment is never in order and must never become the responsibility of the individual. We are therefore all responsible for ensuring a healthy and good framework where you can feel secure as an employee. If there is anything we have learned from the debate, it is that we must break the taboo and put sexual harassment on the agenda. There is no doubt that we need to change culture. In the workplace there must be clarity about acceptable behaviour; we must have a good tone and tone. I do not think I am the only one who is shocked by the extent to which the problem appears to be at work by 2020. It is as if we have not completely set the compass at the time we live in, when sexual harassment is both illegal and unacceptable. Sexual harassment is it is stated in the equal treatment law and in the health and safety legislation. During the last government period, sexual harassment legislation was tightened. It was written directly in the Equal Treatment Act that the employer's duty to ensure equal working conditions for men and women also includes the prohibition of harassment. There is an obligation on the employer to provide a harassing-free environment. It was also made clear that no emphasis should be placed on workplace exposure when assessing cases of sexual harassment. This means that a free tour of the workplace can never excuse sexual harassment. The Ministry of Employment is also carrying out a study to identify the extent of harassment, etc. in Danish workplaces, including the prevalence of sexual harassment. This is done as part of a work initiated after a majority with the Left in the lead last year instructed the government to initiate an investigation into the extent of harassment and bullying in relation to trade union issues. I hope that this autumn's debate helps to raise awareness of sexual harassment and to make it accepted to talk about borders and bad behaviour and to make sure of what is good and bad behaviour. The Left would also like to encourage companies to discuss the issue with employees in order to check whether there is a clear policy, that is, one that everyone is aware of, and whether there is clarity as to who to go to. The Danish way, through clear and clear attitude-based personnel policy, is the right way to go. The Left is involved in a proposal for adoption, in which the Danish Parliament instructs the Government to call the social partners, employees and employers for tripartite negotiations with a view to finding a common solution to how to change the culture of the workplace. We think it is sensible that the social partners should discuss whether they have the necessary tools to bring about a change in culture, and the Left looks forward to following the work and hearing the results of the discussions. On behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party and Conservatives, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament has previously unanimously adopted amendments to the equal treatment law to strengthen the ban on sexual harassment and increase compensation for victims of sexual harassment. Parliament continues to have a strong desire to support the necessary cultural change and enforcement of the ban on sexual harassment, as it is clear that recent legislative changes have not had sufficient effect so far. Parliament notes that government initiatives should support the prevention and detection of sexual harassment. The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to convene tripartite discussions with a view to finding common solutions for changing the culture in the workplace. The Danish Parliament shall be informed of the outcome of the trialogues and the Government shall, before the summer of 2021, convene the parties to the working environment settlement to discuss possible issues. legislative change as a follow-up to the trialogue discussions. • • • • • • • • • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104138	Thank you. And that will also be part of the further debate. There is a brief comment on Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104143	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur of the Left for saying that this really is a major problem and that we have not come all the way with the legislative change that was made in 2019. The rapporteur talks about encouraging employers to talk to their employees about this problem, but is the rapporteur not worried about the fact that the media has died out, that the talk in the workplace will also die out, and that we are not talking about it here in the day-to-day course, and that we will not have the cultural change that we are obviously all very interested in?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104222	That is also why we are instructing the government to convene this trialogue. And the reason why we have said that we are imposing it on them is that one thing is that they say that they are doing it, but I do not know whether the questioner has also seen politicians say that they are doing something and then not so much happens. So that is why we are doing it, so that we can continue to discuss this important subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104243	Astrid Carøe, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104244	Thank you. We are also very pleased that these trialogues are being convened, and I think this is a very important step in the right direction. But I also think that the Left must have its own views on what it takes to change this culture. In other words, in addition to what comes out of the tripartite agreement, what does the Left think could be good for us to change this culture? Or does the rapporteur think that we should just let the employers talk for themselves? It doesn't seem to have worked so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104315	After all, it is not so long ago that the rules were changed, and it should be remembered that it has to work out among employers. After all, you have what is called an objective responsibility today, which is what, with a legal term, is the most extensive thing you can actually get. What the questioner is talking about is not something that is in a legal term quite generally, plus that it has been introduced in England, where it has caused major problems. So it's just that we in the Left believe that it should happen out at work. It's out there that you have to take the discussion. We can legislate so much in here and then think it's gonna help. We do not believe in this; we believe that the discussion should be held at the workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104356	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104407	Thank you very much, and thank you to the SF for making this request so that we can have a debate on what to do and what we mean. I just want you to be a little more specific about what harassment is, and about what ordinary attention is when it comes from someone who thinks you're nice, nice, hot, or when it comes from someone who tries to hit on you, as you do if you want a platonic relationship. In this debate that has been going on, I have seen a great many calls, which I fully support, for insulting behaviour which must be stopped. But I have also seen descriptions of something that I just want to call the general attention of someone who's hitting on someone else, or just telling another person that the person looks good. Unfortunately, the debate has been distorted by linking all actions together and calling it sexual harassment, so suddenly it is an offense when a man or, for that matter, a woman notices my choice of clothes or that I have nice eyes. I don't see that as harassment. I think that we have become far too sensitive and that more and more people are being offended by things that are quite insignificant. I also think that the debate is biased when men cannot afford to say the same thing as women. Recently I heard a P4 program. There were two guests sitting there talking about an actor of a different sex than theirs, whom they mentioned very well and was smashing hot, and they were talking about how they would like to jump on the person. There was talk of choice of clothes and the shape of the body. I'm sure if it had been two men who had been talking about this, there would have been a storm. But now it was two women who were talking about a hot male actor. The thing is, we've got this mixed up, and that's why it's important that we find out what's what. Sometimes it feels like this is just to get a few men down, and it's not okay, and it's not okay to make stories that are 10, 20 years old that can be used against a colleague. It seems more like a power struggle on the other side, and now you can easily get rid of a male leader by making a claim that cannot be proved. But when we talk about real harassment, action must be taken. For example, I have. Talked to female doctors who could tell about everything from major violations to rape by other doctors who are further up in the hierarchy, and that's not okay. Therefore, it is important to include it in the working environment that is important to take care of so that you can feel safe at your workplace. That is why we also believe that this should be worked through in a trialogue. However, when I hear others talking about this, no one is really tackling the root of the nettle and tackling where the responsibility really is, where culture can be changed. It's happening at home. It's parents who raise their children. It's parents who train their children to behave with each other when you meet. Whether you are harassing or bullying or criticizing redheads or those with a crooked nose, you might ask: Why should we only start talking about this when we enter the labour market? I wonder why there is not a single one who has begun to talk about parents having a responsibility towards their children. So that's where you should start now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104803	Thank you. I should like to make a comment first. It is the case that on Monday the Bureau will send out information to the groups asking for two things. One is that when you go to the platform, you walk up from the ramp, and when you go down, you go down by the row of chairs. And then, like the other thing, we ask that if there is a need to talk and that is where the political work is going, then you pull out in the sideways. I propose that we start this today so that we are in good shape as we approach a period of very many people in the Parliamentary Chamber. There are brief comments. First it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104839	Thank you. I sense that the rapporteur thinks this is a little silly. I find that a pity when we get one witness after another with thousands of women from all sorts of different industries that this is a culture that is out there in companies. That the rapporteur then talks about flirting and that we should be able to take it and that it is in a friendly tone, I think is problematic. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur something, because the rapporteur mentions that the rapporteur has talked to female doctors who have been subjected to major violations. The rapporteur says by male doctors: what if the male doctors think that the major violations were quite ordinary, good old-fashioned flirting? So what are we gonna do? Typically, it is because there are two sides to one case. And in this cultural change we're doing, it's because something you've thought was okay before isn't okay at work anymore; it's not okay to stick a hand under a younger employee's dress, and it's not okay to put a hand on an employee's butt anymore. But what does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104951	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204104952	Well, I totally agree with some of that is nonsense. And it's something that's just been whipped up. And it is a pity for those women who have actually experienced an abuse that they are suddenly placed in the same category as some women who have had a hand on their thighs. I mean, we've had curling kids... the question is, are we seeing curling adults now? It's sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105020	Astrid Carøe, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105021	I do not think the rapporteur answers my question. But what about these women, with whom the rapporteur has spoken, who say that they have experienced major violations if the men say it's just plain flirting? So where are we gonna stand? Because there are grey areas in this, and it's different how you see things. And then I would say: a hand on a thigh or a hand so high that it comes under a dress, is for SF something that should not take place at a workplace, and certainly not if it is a superior who does it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105051	I do not know if the rapporteur did not hear my speech. When it's rape and assault, it has to be stopped. And that is also why it is important that the workplace has a proper working environment agreement and that it is ensured that it is done together with the staff there is and that you know the framework there is. So don't put words in my mouth saying that all of a sudden, just because a man says that a rape is okay, I've approved this nonsense!
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105117	Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105119	Thank you to the rapporteur. I tried to listen as best I could. That is more what the rapporteur said about it being out of hand. And the rapporteur came up with an example from a radio programme or something like that and, as the rapporteur said, I very much agree. However, the rapporteur believes that the issues which have been raised in general, for example: The figures presented by the TrygFonden in relation to sexual harassment show that it has gone too far, i.e. the cases we are all familiar with are actually relevant enough? So, can the rapporteur give me so much?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105144	Now I don't know what figures TrygFonden put forward, but I have read many of the political comments in here from Christiansborg, which is my place of work and which has been my place of work for many years, for 13 years, and I don't recognize that picture. And I think it's sad that as a woman, too, you can use force against men like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105200	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105204	I myself got into the TrygFonden in my own speech, and I'm also very fond of this place of work. Having said that, the rapporteur says that it is useless to bring something like this 10 to 20 years later, because you may have a personal motive for revenge. Does the rapporteur not think that there can be a situation in which it cannot be put out and therefore it should be possible to come forward later? This also applies to sexual abuse, where we have also made it possible to do so later, not because this is necessarily just as bad. But does the rapporteur recognise that there may be a reason why we might be waiting to come forward with these things and that we should still be allowed to tell them about it, even if it is back years?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105235	I understand that we need to be allowed to tell you about this, but what we see today is that there are some cases that are 10 to 20 years old, which actually involve reprisals for the man who is exposed to being called offending, without anyone proving it. We have a rule of law which means, of course, that you are innocent until proven otherwise, and that should also apply to these cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105258	Then it's Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105301	Thank you. I sense that the rapporteur is calling for some definitions: what is sexual offence? What is abuse? Well, we can ask. And I would like to do a small thought experiment, because I noted that the rapporteur's colleagues in the press a few months ago, among other things. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Mrs Marie Krarup seemed to respond quite strongly to the stories of my and other colleagues about sexual violations at this workplace. Then I would like to get a definition from the rapporteur himself if I give three examples. Which of the examples mentioned are not sexual abuse? Is it when, like me, you've been exposed to male colleagues taking pictures of you while you're talking and sending them to someone with heart-emojies? Is it when you get kissed on your neck at a negotiating meeting when you get greeted? Or is it when you get caught in your hair and get whispered that your perfume smells like sex? Are there any of them that do not?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105412	Yes, there is. I mean, because somebody takes a picture and sends a heart with God. I don't see that as a violation at all. As for someone coming to kiss me on my neck or tearing my hair, I would say that they would never get near that. Well, at least I'd retire. I wonder why it is said about some colleagues in here, because of course there should not be one at a negotiating meeting that kisses you on your neck or pulls your hair. But I guess I just wanted to fight back.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105444	Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105446	As I hear it, we are getting a little closer to the rapporteur's definition of what sexual abuse is. But then I would like to ask: how does the rapporteur think that we should separate the sheep from the goats, if that is the case? Now I'm in defense myself. 11% of the female employees during the defense experience sexual unwanted attention. According to the rapporteur, how do we find out which parts of these studies are nonsense and which parts are real enough, because we have to do something about what is real enough? So how do we separate the sheep from the goats in such a situation? I and the SF do not really agree with that, but perhaps the rapporteur can tell it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105524	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105527	That is why we have to make an agreement with the employers and the staff. I think there is a real difference between working in a blacksmith shop and working in a hospital hall. Sometimes there is a jargon, and I would be sorry if we were so offended by everything that you dare not fire a joke or dare say something that could be thought of as sexist. That's what I think is nonsense. And there are actually young men who come and say: we dare not say anything anymore; we soon do not know how to hit on a girl, because then we can be accused of sexism.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105558	Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105600	Thank you. I notice that some definitions are needed because when the rapporteur sweeps this off with one hand on a thigh, I would like to say that when it is a boss who puts his hand on an employee's thigh, it is not just the thigh that he holds his hand, it is the entire woman's career. Because it means a lot to whether the employee dares to remove his hand and push it away, whether it is his career, or whether it is two equal people. So I really want to follow up on the question that has been asked: where is the limit? Because, as I hear the rapporteur, what is going on at the mild end, and which may be remarks, is to be interpreted as flirting. But what when you read a report from 2018, when staff in the restaurant industry say that they have been exposed to comments such as "Give you a grumbling, 'cause I've got adhd in my dick? Is it just a flirt that you have to pull on your shoulders, or is it sexism?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105703	Yeah, there's a wide range of quotes. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105706	Well, you know what? You can't say "you," I think we've been so offended everywhere. I've been a taxi driver driving drunk people. I can quote from those sentences that could be worse than those that the rapporteur brought. I mean, are we gonna change our whole language, our whole attitude, because we're afraid to say something wrong? I think there's a big difference between you working in the restaurant business or anywhere else. I have also worked with brain-damaged people who have called me the most horrible things because they are brain-damaged. Somebody's trying to make up their mind and say, "Oh, I've been working with some brain-damaged people who've called me something." I mean, for the young generation that we see now, it is completely over, compared to what perhaps some of us who are a little older have grown up with. That is also why I am saying that we must do something about it. Yes, we need to make some agreements on the labour market, find out what the framework is. But raise your children!
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105816	Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105820	The rapporteur asks whether we should change our language. I think we should. I really think so. And then the rapporteur also talks about how inclusive our labour market can be in relation to people with disabilities. It has to be really spacious. But it is just a completely different debate from the one we are having now about a culture in which power is abused for sexual abuse. Finally, I would just like to say that there are probably generations of differences, but how I would like the older generation to support the younger generation as well. At least that is something I will do for future generations myself. I also experience it from present older generations, and there are a few detours too!
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105907	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105909	I have children of 29 and 25 years of age and they have their spouses and all their friends and I think they behave well because they are properly raised. I will not be able to see them in a case where violations were used. So I still believe that what we should do here is raise our children and our grandchildren. At the same time, at work, we must ensure that we find the framework for what is proper tone and behaviour and, of course, we should not go to the wrong way of using our power with regard to employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105940	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why it is now Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204105958	I would like to start by thanking the SF for bringing up this very important debate. Even if it is no longer in the interest of the media, it is extremely important, and I am also pleased that we can take the debate here in Parliament. 2020 has become the year when the metoo and the showdown of sexism have seriously hit Denmark. It's just about time. Although the debate and the showdown may seem violent and unsightly to look at, it gives us, as a society, a unique opportunity that we must and must take advantage of. Finally, we have the opportunity to ensure full and real equality in our society, we have the opportunity to get rid of the remnants of a man-dominated culture which, for too long and without any justification whatsoever, has been allowed to survive in our society and which, in many contexts, has become an ingrained part of our everyday life. With the debate on methodology and sexism, we can hopefully once and for all to make it clear that equality in our society is not complete with equal rights and formal and legal equality......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This requires that we all become aware of what behaviour we will accept and what behaviour we will not accept. This requires us in all parts of society to establish clear rules on how we look at and deal with sexism and cross-border behaviour, so that people who are subjected to violations can always receive the necessary help and support. In far too large parts of our society, there is a lack of clarity and uncertainty about what to do if you experience or are subjected to cross-border behaviour. It needs to be changed and it needs to be changed by common help so that we have a system that can deal with it. This applies to everything from handling complaints about offensive behaviour to the measurement of penalties and sanctions. In short, we need to create a new structure for how we, as a society, deal with sexism and sexual harassment. At the same time, we all need to try to adjust mentally and in our behaviour. The former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher once said that one's thoughts turn into words that turn into actions that become habits that turn into characters that turn into fates. That is really the chain and order in which our battle must take place. Because we need to change as a society and as individuals at all levels and levels. The battle with sexism and cross-border behavior starts in our own thoughts, how we understand and perceive the problem, and it can ultimately be our destiny, whether we handle it properly or wrongly. If we are to change culture, it requires both a significant social and individual transition in our whole approach to the problem. As a society, we must succeed in the fight against sexism, and that, of course, also requires political action, and rather today than tomorrow. This requires discussions with the social partners, with civil society and with other relevant actors who must and must be involved in order to bring about the necessary change. Sexism and offensive behavior are not confined to a single industry. This was shown by Sofie Linde's call, which was quickly followed by one petition after another from one industry after another. I am of the opinion that people with loose jobs and in low-wage jobs are particularly vulnerable. You shouldn't ask many young women in the restaurant business until you start talking to the first person who has experienced sexism. However, I would also like to remind you that a violation will not be less painful or have fewer consequences if the vulnerable party is a person in a high-paid position, and we must not neglect that. Because if we truly believe it, culture must be taken in all sectors and at all levels of society, including politics and Christiansborg. In the Radical Left, we would like to see indirect objective responsibility for employers introduced. We would also like to see an increase in the compensation for the victim of sexual harassment. That is what we have been thinking for years, and now is the time to take action on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204110442	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no wish for short remarks, which means that we can go further. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204110510	Thank you. Today we are discussing the prevention of sexual harassment and the fact that the many incidents call for more legislation. I would like to thank the SF for taking the initiative. It's really important. Let me be clear: sexist behavior is unacceptable. Too often sexist behavior is just called humor and good atmosphere. But everyone knows there's a difference between a compliment and a sexist comment. We must not normalize sexism; we must have an open dialogue on it. We can do that. It doesn't hurt man and woman. It doesn't make being a man any harder. It just makes it easier to be a woman. It's about respect and normal good behavior. This is not a joke; we acknowledge the problem and believe that action should be taken. Over the years, there have been far too many abuses which are totally unacceptable. These are serious matters that are not being hit hard enough. I am very affected by women who feel that it is shameful to talk about. No one should carry these experiences alone. Assaults and bells are the worst. If one thinks that one can exercise some form of devaluement and exercise of power through sexist behaviour towards some others, then one has exceeded a serious limit that we should not accept. As a mother of daughters who are a student and in the process of drawing up their careers, I can be worried. I guess there are no parents who want their children to be subjected to sexism. It's just not right to suppress employees like that. Nor is it right for those who oppress to retain their powerful positions. It has to be over. We just don't want it anymore! Of course, people have to behave. Nor should you drive too fast, cheat on the treasure, or take off the cashier, it goes without saying. Now it is a question of putting the patronage on now and in the future, so that we ensure that it has consequences for those men and women who cannot behave properly, just as we all have a responsibility for ensuring that legal certainty in the process is not jeopardised. Sexual harassment must be combated, but above all it is a cultural change that needs to be tackled. In the main, the Ministry's report proposes to solve the challenge through dialogue, which is positive. This is a more realistic approach than trying to take legislative action, which some might otherwise be tempted to do because it shows action. Here we believe that it is a cultural change that needs to be done. And this must be done in tripartite discussions in order to find common solutions to how culture in the workplace can be changed. We therefore support the proposal for adoption by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204110806	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Astrid Carøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204110813	Thank you. How glad I am to hear that the rapporteur also thinks that this is a really big problem and that the rapporteur can see it here too, that it should be easier to be a woman in the Danish labour market and that it does not make it harder to be a man. I think that's so great. Thank you for that. What I want to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur is not worried about whether this change in culture can happen on its own. Now the talk of it has died out in the media, and perhaps it has also died out around the lunch table at work, so how do we keep these conversations alive if we do nothing from in here, i.e. if you are not going to say that employers should have that responsibility and that we have to make some legislation? What does the rapporteur think about this? Is the rapporteur not concerned that it will die out?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204110856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204110900	Now, after all, the rapporteur has been here for many years and has been very much out in private working life and, as such, only been in here for a year, so I have a lot of experience from the labour market. I'm not worried this is gonna die out. I believe that this is something that must happen in companies and I take note of the 14 initiatives that the government is going to launch, because we have good legislation in this area. So what this is all about is a change in culture. And how do you create it? That's what you do by constantly talking about it. I do not believe that we need any more legislation, but I believe that, as role models in here, we must, of course, continue to talk about it. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204110945	Astrid Carøe, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204110949	A lot of cultural changes in our society have actually taken place over the years through legislation, and it can be a pretty good way of changing a culture, even if it is legislation, because then people are encouraged to talk about some things they might not otherwise have talked about, or did some things they would not otherwise have done. Does the rapporteur recognise that a change in culture can be encouraged and speeded up if legislation is included and that legislation can bring about the change in culture that is demanded?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111019	I recognise that legislation is very important, including in this area, but I also recognise that we have legislation that I actually think works very well. I can be very concerned about the rapporteur's own proposal for indirect objective responsibility, because I do not think that is the way to go. I believe that the way to go right now and here, firstly, is to wait for the study that is coming, but secondly, it is also about having some discussions with the parties out there. It's about focusing on this area, and I think it's definitely there, among other things. through some of the rapporteurs in this Chamber, and we must continue to have that. However, as I see it, we must not have more legislation now and here. Now it is about cultural change; it is about management taking their responsibility, and it is about us as people in jobs around us respecting each other and behaving properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111105	Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111109	Thank you. In the field of defence, you have been a little ahead of us for once. We just had the discussion about sexual abuse in here and in the media industry. The defence started it a little over a year ago and has actually made some initiatives. Among other things: There are many places what they call zero tolerance, and that sounds really good; at least I think so. But then we see, for example. a case such as that in which a female defence employee is subjected to sexual harassment by a superior, goes to the superior, is charged with the problem and is rejected. Then she goes to another superior and is again rejected, and in the end it ends with the said female employee being told that she has to find another place to be. How does the rapporteur feel it is in keeping with the concept of zero tolerance?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111217	I think it is a really, really unhappy case and it is good that it is brought to light. It's time for some cases like this to come to light. This should not happen; something like this must not happen, but this is about management responsibility, and it is about management apparently not taking its task seriously enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111231	Anne Valentina Berthelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111234	I fully agree with that, but it seems to me that this is an illustration of the fact that even if we have zero tolerance and even if we have very fine legislation in this area, it does not necessarily work as intended. And then I would like to hear from the rapporteur: when it is a management responsibility, does that mean that the leader who rejects the complaint and refuses to address the problem should be fired?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111303	Now I can't stand here on the platform and decide who should be fired and not fired. This is something that must be done in the individual companies. Now it's in the defense, and I'm not a defense rapporteur, so I haven't followed that case closely enough. There is no doubt that this is a management task, and if you do not take your management role and responsibility seriously enough, some others, a board of directors or others will have to take the task of dismissing those people if they do not take this seriously. But first of all, it is a change in culture, and such things also take time, and it is good that you as young women are role models, and that we as a little older women are also role models and say that we are enough now that we will not put up with it. But we also need to be able to be in the same room, and we need to be able to be together. We must be able to engage with each other in a way that avoids such situations arising here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111354	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we are moving on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111407	Today we have a debate on sexual harassment, and I have not heard anyone in here who thinks it is okay. So there really should not be much debate on it. Then a debate on sexism is being sneaked in and there we absolutely do not agree. Many of the things we hear and some of the things we hear about are not automatic sexism in my optics, but it can be about much else. It can be about abuse of power, it can be about self-interest, it can be about awkward types trying to take the lead, it can be about lack of self-esteem and lack of trust, education and education. It can be about a whole host of other things. It may also be about sexism, but I think that in this debate we need a clearer framework for what sexism is. For sexism is prejudice and discrimination based on gender. And if we want to get rid of it and I think it would make sense to get rid of sexism we should start here. Then we'll start in here in the Folketing, where we're responsible for the laws of the country. Because there's sexism... legal sexism... from the Danish Parliament. Because there is discrimination based on gender. Take section 109 of the Service Act. Only a few months ago, the Folketing chose to grant women free psychological assistance only at shelters and not men. A bell-clear discrimination: Women need psychological help, men don't. Before you take up a fight with the legal discrimination that is happening in this Parliament, it is a bit arrogant if you want to be moral guardian of all sorts of other people in society. So I would urge that we all ask the Minister to come up with a long list of all the legislative proposals that contain some form of sexism in here in the Folketing. And then we'll have that list, and then we'll end it. Then we take that responsibility and end the sexism that comes from inside the Parliamentary Chamber. I think that would be an important step. Then it may be that people out there will take it much more seriously. Let me just make it clear what sexism isn't. It's not automatic sexism if a boss threatens an employee to ruin his career if you don't want to have sex. It might as well be pure abuse of power. It doesn't have to be about sex at all, it doesn't have to be about discrimination based on sex. It can be about the individual, it can be about the person who exercises it. It is also not necessarily automatic sexism if a prominent, powerful person takes another on the thigh one late evening on a bodega or licks them in the ear for a Christmas lunch. It may just be the awkward man who tries to hit on people and who lacks a bit of discipline and politeness and maybe does not have much experience with it with women. But we should not automatically make it the case that there is some structural sexism. We're gonna have to take these two things apart. So let us start by ending the sexism that is happening here on the part of the legislators in the Parliamentary Chamber. That would be the right place to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111811	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no desire for short remarks. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why it is now the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204111834	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speeches. I think it has been a really, really good debate with a lot of interesting input, which in fact bears witness to the fact that this discussion has only just begun. As I said in my opening speech, today's debate will also be part of the discussions that I will have with the parties on behalf of the government when we sit down in the trialogue. We have not finished talking about sexual harassment. In fact, one can say that we have only just begun. Next week we will be dealing with a resolution from the Enhedslisten on employer responsibility, and I look forward to that as well. However, I cannot quite rule out repeating some of my points from today that we really are hoping that some of the issues are particularly those which relate to the responsibility of the employer and which have also been discussed today, which the parties themselves are also able to agree on a good and sensible framework. In conclusion, of course, I also hope that it is clear to everyone that this agenda is important to me. It is important to me as Minister for Employment, and it is especially important to me as Minister for Gender Equality. And it is also important that it gets out into the corners where there are less or virtually no spotlights and no microphones to stop for the many both women and men who are subjected to sexual harassment as part of their work out among ordinary employees. Thank you for an exciting debate today. And thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112016	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112020	It is because from the platform I called for the Minister to be helpful in drawing up a list of the places where there is legal sexism on the part of the Folketing. We know that, according to Article 109 of the Services Act, women are entitled to psychological assistance, but not men, therefore, a clear example. Will the Minister be willing to make such a list so that the Folketing can put an end to the structural sexism that is happening in here on the part of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112047	Whether this concept is also termed sexism, I simply do not want to be wise about it, but I am quite convinced that when we adopt legislation we always carry out gender equality assessments. And if sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen is asking for concrete knowledge of what has been of legislation, for example, in the last year or longer, where it can be pointed out that there is some form of inequality between men and women in this legislation in one way or another, so of course we would be happy to provide that information.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112130	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112132	Thank you. But then I would like to ask whether the Minister thinks that it is an expression of equality that women who go to crisis homes can get free psychological help while men who go to crisis homes cannot get it? Is that an expression of equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112143	In other words, without having to be completely honest about what that discussion was about, I believe, and as I remember the debate, that it was aimed at women ending up using women's crisis centres in the vast majority of cases, and that is why I believe that this distinction was made. But I simply do not have enough knowledge of why it was decided that the cut should be there. But, of course, I would very much like to ask colleagues in the government about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112217	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112221	Thank you for that and thank you for indicating that you really have a desire to do something about this. I would like a final word from the Minister about giving employers a greater responsibility for everyone feeling safe at work and not being subjected to sexual harassment, precisely by doing this preventive work. So can the Minister put a little more words on that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112247	For me, it is just very important to repeat, because this is already the case in the legislation today and I even believe that Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard also mentioned the earlier one that it is clearly the employer's responsibility to ensure a healthy and sound working environment. It is in our health and safety legislation as it is today. Then I think we need to discuss and face up to reality, at least when we look at statistics. And when we look at how many people, for example, in the study that has been carried out by the National Research Centre on Working Conditions, say that they have been subjected to sexual abuse, in which groups of employees it is and how few cases are actually being produced, then we also have to discuss whether employers are, as far as possible, able to meet the responsibilities they have under the legislation. That is the question we are really going to ask openly and then ask the parties to help us take a position on in the trialogues on which we will have the first meeting before Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112345	Astrid Carøe, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112348	Thank you so much for that statement. Finally, I would just like to ask the Minister for Equal Opportunities because today we have had a debate on sexual harassment in the workplace, but we have also seen over the last few months that it is not just about the workplace, that it is also about the social life and the sporting life • whether there are also some initiatives on the way in those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112413	At any rate, there are a number of the initiatives that we have announced in the 14-initiative package, where the trialogue is one of them, which also looks more closely at our educational institutions. And I am certainly not opposed to the fact that the government will also take the lead in spreading this, in my opinion, very important but also difficult discussion to all parts of our society. This also applies, of course, to our sports life, our cultural life, our social life in the broad sense. However, I think it is important that we keep in mind what I think has been reflected in today's debate that if you want this change of culture, it is also a journey that we have to go through, the whole population, and we are not going to get into these squeezing discussions that something has been marked by.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112505	Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112508	Thank you very much. I will continue where Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen escaped because we hear talk all the time about women being involved, but I want a Minister for Gender Equality who takes care of the men who are also caught. There is sexual harassment against men starting in the social and health professions because there are many women present. There is harassment of men as educators. They're being accused of paedophilia just because they're looking at a child. They can't go out changing diapers on a kid without someone watching. When we talk about being subjected to violence, it is more than one in four who are subjected to physical partner violence, there is a man, yet there are not as many places they can go, nor can they get free psychological treatment for which the government has just allocated funds through the Minister of Social Affairs. Is this something that the Minister will be working on also going into this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112601	I would basically like to join Mrs Liselott Blixt in highlighting a number of examples of the fact that there are certainly many areas on the broad equality agenda where men are not equal to women. After all, we first dealt with a draft law on this earlier this week, and it is quite trivial, but in reality quite crucial, that men have an equal right to gain insight into what kind of post comes from public authorities, about their children. One small thing, however, is quite important for men and, as such, also for men's ability to have proper right of access to children if it should end in divorce etc. There are plenty of areas where men are not fully equal, and this of course also applies to sexual abuse and sexual harassment, to which men are also subjected. I also had that in my opening speech, where I talked about both women and men.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112656	Liselott Blixt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112659	I also hope that it will not stop at digital mail, but that the men who receive regular mail will also be allowed to know what is happening to their children. But what is important is whether you take this seriously too, because it seems that it is always women who have to be put at the centre while forgetting the men. The government then goes out and provides free psychological assistance to women in women's homes, but because men are in another housing called something else, they cannot get help even if they have been subjected to exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112736	I would just like to emphasise once again that, as a new Minister for Gender Equality, I take very seriously all the many very serious issues that exist in our society, where men are not fully equal to women. There are a number of developments in which some men in a number of areas, whether in divorce or in education or other things, are not equal. Again: The specific reasons why there were no subsidies for men are simply not known at all, but I would very much like to dive into it and have a further discussion with the rapporteur on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112813	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112846	The debate was opened. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204112901	Thank you for the floor. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that Copenhagen and other Danish cities should not only be for Danes with high incomes and large fortunes. Therefore, we have an ambition to build 110,000 new homes in the four largest cities by 2031 which are to pay, so Danes with low incomes will still be able to afford to live centrally. Copenhagen and other Danish cities must never become like London, New York and similar cities abroad, where only the richest can afford to live centrally. It may work in Britain and the United States, but it is devastating for a welfare state like Denmark. The prerequisite for our welfare state is a strong cohesion among all Danes. In social democracy, we believe that it strengthens cohesion when we live together across social, economic and ethnic parameters, and not separated from each other. Therefore, we must combat the biased composition of housing and residents in Danish cities. We do, among other things. by continuing to have general properties and thus building more cheap housing for Danes with low incomes. If a housing department wishes to continue to have general properties, the additional purchase price is regularly a stop-point for a given project to be built within the regulatory framework applicable to the establishment of general housing. Therefore, it is often put to an end when a general housing association, for example, wants to add a floor or two to a general property or to continue in other ways. Therefore, this draft law proposes an optional scheme whereby municipalities should be allowed not to charge the additional purchase price by encapsulating general housing units located outside a exposed residential area. As mentioned above, this may have a negative effect on the financial incentive for housing organisations to establish new general or private dwellings in existing general housing units. On the basis of these considerations, I can inform you that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113046	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113051	The reason why it is not possible today for the municipalities to derogate from the additional purchase price here is, of course, that they generally do not like the fact that random majority in municipalities decide to give gifts to certain citizens or interest groups. The rapporteur cannot be unaware of the fact that, for example, there is a risk that the Commission will not be able to take action in this area. is a close link between the general housing movement and the rapporteur's own party. Would it be reassuring if a municipality in which the rapporteur's party was heavily in power decided to give a gift to a general housing organisation? Would that be healthy and democratic?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113153	I have to understand whether there should be any hint of some major nepotist plot in relation to Social Democratic mayors. If that is the case, then the rapporteur will have to elaborate on it, because that is how I understood it. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113206	It is a completely well-known matter, including for the rapporteur, that the Social Democratic Party is doing services in the Folketing for the sponsors of the Social Democratic Party, the trade union movement, for example. As a minister, I was told by the Social Democratic Party that I was not to negotiate with the Social Democratic Party at all, but with the trade union movement in this area. So that the Social Democrats have these links is not unknown to the rapporteur. Will the rapporteur choose to lie about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113234	Well, you don't lie every time you disagree with the Liberal Alliance. I think that's something weird to say. Moreover, the former minister has been responsible and has not taken this seriously with the biased housing mix that exists in some cities. Instead, he comes with all sorts of conspiracy theories that are known primarily from the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113247	There is one more brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113258	Thank you. Could the rapporteur explain why this does not have an economic impact on business?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113308	I do not see what the rapporteur is thinking about. I think we all have an interest in mixed residential areas. I guess it's a joy for everyone, so they can afford to live in the big cities. That should also be supported. I know, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen is elected in Aarhus, where you have some of the same problems as you have in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113328	However, I also believe that the rapporteur agrees with the basic market mechanisms and, if you do so cheaper for some, they will have a competitive advantage over some others. In this case it will be cheaper to build general housing, and therefore the difference between general housing and private housing will increase in proportion to the cost of building them. That is why I wonder why this proposal says that it has no economic impact on business and that it will not affect business at all to make it cheaper to build general housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113402	But that is probably because the calculations are that it does not, and I really think that the rapporteur should concentrate instead on being happy that there are mixed cities, both in Copenhagen and in Aarhus and in other cities, where we have seen problems with ordinary people not being able to afford to live in the city. It does not necessarily have to affect business.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113416	There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Egil Hulgaard of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113426	I'm gonna follow up on the Liberal Alliance's questions. Is the rapporteur aware that there are special links between the general housing sector and the socialist movement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113448	I don't think it's about that. I know it's very exciting about the fact that something special and a little covert was going on. This is about building mixed buildings, and in most municipalities, where the Social Democracy sits in the mayor's offices, you sit there in cooperation with other parties. I know that there are some places in the West, where it is not like that, but far, by far, in most places where there is a Social Democratic mayor, it is in cooperation with other parties, among others. The Conservative People's Party too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113510	So I take that as a clear yes, that is that there are connections.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113518	The rapporteur himself must interpret this. That's not what I said. So I'd rather be quoted correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113524	That is what brief remarks were made to the rapporteur. Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113542	Thank you. The proposal here allows municipalities not to charge an additional sum or parts thereof by enshrining a general housing unit property with a view to the establishment of several general housing, private dwellings or occupations. The Left cannot support this. The proposal discriminates between general housing and private residential areas, between general housing companies and private builders. We do not think this is appropriate. In the Left we stress that we have a mixed housing stock in which both general and private rentals, co-operatives and owner-occupied dwellings must be given priority. Housing is to be seen in a life cycle where the needs of the citizen change from cradle to grave. We feel that we have already helped to ensure this, even in relation to the general housing. In 2016, the left entered into a plan law agreement where we just agreed to preserve the municipalities' ability to set in a local plan that up to 25 per cent. of the housing stock may be general dwellings. The Liberal Group is opposed to the fact that general housing areas which have already been supported by construction are also directly covered by an exemption from the payment of the additional sum in the event of a congestion. This will be a disguised aid that will make it even harder to assess what general construction really costs and transparency is important. We must build the best and cheapest for the benefit of our citizens. In addition, there will be a loss of revenue for the municipalities if there is a pre-distribution of general residential areas in relation to private residential areas. It is neither appropriate nor transparent. That's our word.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113712	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from...
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113726	May I just say briefly that I have promised to greet the Radicals who support the government's proposals. It's from the radical rapporteur, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113730	It was incredibly generous that the rapporteur of the Left, who does not support the bill, nevertheless welcomes from another party, the Radical Left, which supports it. It's noted. I would like to thank the rapporteur and welcome him. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204113741	There are friendly people here in the Assembly Hall, first a grumpy and then a very friendly. This bill gives municipalities the right to refuse to charge extra money if general housing associations want to build on existing built-up land. The additional purchase price, as it says, is not laid down in the law but has become customary because of different rulings in the law. These orders have resulted in the municipalities having to charge a supplement if housing associations wish to continue, either through several floors on an existing building or by building new ones. A similar deduction already exists for general housing in vulnerable residential areas, but this bill does not affect them, as they are regulated elsewhere. I have wondered whether it is desirable to give the municipalities this right. It will be used especially in large municipalities with Copenhagen in the lead. This will mean that more and cheaper housing will be built, which is, of course, good for newcomers, because it has become expensive for young people and low-paid people to settle in these cities. On the other hand, it can reinforce urbanisation, that is, the flight from country to city. The large municipalities headed by Copenhagen will become even more attractive than they are today, thus pulling the curtain away under the province and the smaller cities. Conversely, the bill may mean that the residential areas can become more diverse than today, because the bill also gives the right to allow private builders and business buildings to be established in cooperation with housing associations. I would therefore suggest that we evaluate the impact of the law after every five years, and if it turns out that the law has strengthened urbanisation, then it may be necessary to reverse it. In conclusion, I would also like to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that the European Union can interfere in this and that the municipality must therefore ensure that EU law and the Treaty on State aid are respected when the additional purchase price is waived. There are now no limits to what the European Union can do to interfere in. However, we in the Danish People's Party are looking forward to the discussion in committee, and perhaps the Minister of Housing can consider my concerns about urbanisation, and it is possible that he himself has made some reflections about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114033	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is how we proceed in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114051	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the government for bringing forward this bill, which aims to promote the possibility of building new housing in existing general buildings. This new law allows the municipal council not to charge additional purchase fees in connection with the establishment of new dwellings and occupations in existing general buildings. The current case law requires a housing organisation to pay additional purchase fees to the municipality if it wishes to exploit the full residential potential of the dwelling by, for example, building roofs. This practice may have a negative effect on the financial incentive for housing organisations to set up new housing in existing general housing units, which is very inappropriate when demand for housing in our cities is increasing steadily. In SF we are therefore pleased that the government is working to create more housing in the cities where demand is greatest, and I can therefore announce that SF supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114156	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114212	Enhedslisten supports the bill. We think it is good to give the municipalities freedom of choice with a view to refraining from collecting this additional purchase price. It is often the case in some residential areas that you look at whether, for example, in connection with housing. a roof renovation wants to create more homes, and then such a project can be easier to implement if it is the case that you do not have to pay the additional purchase price to the municipality. The draft law so emphasizes that this law does not apply to vulnerable residential areas, and when I saw it, I was very surprised, but that is why it was made clear by L 38 that the vulnerable residential areas until 1 January 2025 can be exempted from these rules on additional purchases. However, I think it is a disadvantage to the draft law that we are not dealing with what will happen after 1 January 2025 for the vulnerable residential areas. On the basis of the list that has just come, of vulnerable residential areas, it can easily be thought that some of the housing associations are thinking: should we already in 2021 start to work on changing our settlements so that we might get some business into, so that we might get other homes in, and that is to say that we already dealt with the longer term? It is sometimes the case when you start a construction project in a general housing organisation that it has to come from below that the residents first have to adopt something at a departmental meeting, and a construction process is something that takes time. That is why I think it is a disadvantage at this stage that we do not know what applies to vulnerable residential areas after 1 January 2025. So I think that we should amend the legislative proposal so that the derogation from the additional purchase price is something that applies more permanently to vulnerable residential areas. I think that is a reasonable consideration. Since it has already been agreed that it should apply to vulnerable residential areas and has put an end date on it, why not make it a permanent arrangement if it is the case that priority will be given to some residential areas that need to be made more varied? Because it takes planning to achieve something else. So I think that amendment is very important to deal with in committee, and the Minister also has the opportunity to think about it for three minutes and perhaps to include it in his speech a little. Now there seem to be some trends that there are fewer vulnerable residential areas, but we are also in a situation where the lists of these ghetto neighbourhoods are based on old figures. The figures for the population's declining income and rising unemployment, which may affect some groups, do not go through the ghettoists that have just been published, but they will, of course, do so when we reach 2021. Then there will be a risk that there are some unemployment rates that have increased and that there is some household income that has been falling under corona, and that is a concern. After all, we risk that the list of vulnerable residential areas will be longer next year, which is why it could be important for some of these housing associations to start thinking about what they can do not to get on the hard ghetto list and whether they can change their settlement composition. That is why I think it is right that this idea of being able to waive the additional purchase price should also apply to vulnerable residential areas after 1 January 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114612	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114619	Thank you. Now I am burdened with the experience of having been in the municipal council of Aarhus, and there Enhedslisten most often argued against the congestion of the cities, one did not want any more congestion. I know that there is something here that can be built up, but there is also a sealing element in this bill, which I often heard Enhedslisten was against, because green areas and other things had to be secured. How does the rapporteur think this is in keeping with the view that I know Enhedslisten has?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114653	Well, I am very much in favour of democracy, which can unfold in a city council and which can be unfolded in a housing association. If there are housing associations where residents want to go into something to see if there can be congestion in their residential area, then that is their decision. I'm okay with that, also from my 8 years of experience in Aarhus City Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114712	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114714	Then I would like to ask whether the position of Enhedslisten here in the Folketing in general is that there should be more congestion in the large cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114720	I think we could easily get to more congestion in a good way if it was the case that we made cars at street level fill less. So it's not like that either. I think it is very important that we have attractive residential areas where there is room for open spaces where there is green, where there is room for children to play and where there is room for meeting. So there's not such a list for this. I think that over time we have provided too much space for cars, and that is also the dictation of building in the general sector, namely how many parking spaces there should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114752	The next brief remark is to Mr. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114756	I am just a little curious to hear how the rapporteur looks at allowing municipalities to give away values. What is Enhedslisten's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114812	Well we are fine with it, when the municipality makes it better to unfold what is happening in a community, and a housing association is a community where everyone can be written up to stand on a waiting list to obtain a dwelling. And if it's the case that a municipality departs from this supplementary purchase price, you make the economy better in a housing association, and it can then be for the benefit of the tenants who live there today, and it can be for the benefit of the tenants who will live there in 40 years' time, without anyone taking any profit out of it, and we're quite comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114844	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114848	But is it not because the municipality is giving to something that the rapporteur actually thinks is a good purpose? So the municipality is allowed to give to an area where the rapporteur thinks it is a good purpose, but when the municipality gives away for something that is a bad purpose, can the municipality not? Isn't it a slippery path to correct our administrative practices in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114915	No, I think it is quite fine that the municipality, what is to be said, promotes the development which a majority in a city council considers to be essential. And if a majority in a city council thinks that there should be general housing and that one would like to support the economy around it by not using the additional purchase price, I think it is quite fine and a good priority when it comes to establishing that there are more general housing for the benefit of the citizens living in that municipality. It is important that there are general housing so that the patterns of relocation, which are typically there over time, can be really good, and that contributes the general housing super well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114946	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204114952	I should like to know whether Enhedslisten thinks it is a good idea and that it should be allowed if a majority in a municipality and the majority here think it is a good idea to give a municipal land below market price to a businessman who is a good friend of the ruling majority. Does Enhedslisten think it should be legal? Because a majority of the municipality would like to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204115013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204115017	I don't think you should do that. It is not part of Enhedslisten's business policy that we want to promote business in this way. It is then a question of allowing the municipality to promote a general building, and so it is of great importance for a municipality that there are general dwellings available. There are sometimes citizens who come into a life situation where they need a home and where it is an advantage that the municipality can point to a general housing. I think the importance of general housing is much overlooked. I have a mother-in-law who recently became a widow, and she had a 140 m2 parcel house that she wanted to get out of, and it was simply a good thing that in the small town outside Silkeborg there were common homes that she could be written up for, so she could get a home there, and then a family of children could buy her parcel house and move in. It is the kind of moving patterns that are super good of gardens and that we must prioritize.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204115114	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204115118	Yes, and not an eye is dry, but this bill also allows you to build ordinary private homes by way of derogation from the additional purchase price. So the bill doesn't contain what Enhedslisten says. But even if that is what Enhedslisten says, we have thus been shown that Enhedslisten's speech that Enhedslisten thinks that a majority should be able to do anything is not correct; Enhedslisten believes that a majority should be able to give gifts to the general housing movement, but not to a businessman to whom the majority might want to give gifts. We are against both, but Enhedslisten is only against giving gifts to people that Enhedslisten does not like while you are in favour of giving gifts to people that Enhedslisten likes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204115159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204115202	We are very much in favour of communities, and these are the communities that are unfolding in a housing association, where no one is profiting from the fact that the municipality chooses not to get an income from this supplementary purchase price, but rather to give priority to the construction of more general housing for the benefit of all residents of that municipality. We are quite happy about that, and we are comfortable with the fact that we, the Danish Parliament, are strengthening this bill. And then it is up to the municipalities to what extent they want to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204115230	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Egil Hulgaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204115242	Thank you for the floor. We in the Conservative People's Party are not very much in favour of allowing municipalities to give away values. And we think that it is a good principle that the municipality should take care of the citizens' money, including the municipality's citizens' money. In this case, there is talk of a derogation from a supplementary purchase price for an existing non-profit-making dwelling. However, the non-profit housing has been established on the basis of a building right, which has then been agreed on a price for having received it. Here we are asking for the building to be expanded without increasing the payment. And we are against that from the outset. It is also argued that we need to create more mixed housing areas. But that is not what happens when we talk about building more general housing in an already universal residential area. For then it will no longer be mixed with building more general housing. I know that the proposal also proposes that private homes and housing can be built in this context. That's probably not what's gonna happen. It is, of course, precisely as the rapporteur from the platform says, that what is going to happen is the use of rooftops and the like. If it is true that it was still part of the ghetto package at the time, then there was a purpose in it, namely to create more mixed residential areas. It was precisely the aim that private homes or occupations should be created in an area which was burdened with stress which could help to create a mixed area. And we support that. This proposal also has a sunset clause, so that we are precisely defining this possibility for municipalities to write off values. It is the case that the values we are talking about here and the building dishes we are talking about are expensive. There is a reason for this; it is an attractive place to live while ghetto areas are typically not attractive places to build. There you have to do something special. So in those words, we in the Conservatives must refuse to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204115521	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens. It's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204115530	Thank you. I always find it a little funny how social democracy and some of the centre-left parties criticise housing policy in large cities. Well, the fact is that in Copenhagen, Aarhus, Aalborg, Odense and the other major cities there has often been a social democratic regime based on the left. So they must, of course, be responsible for the misguided housing policy that has been pursued in that area. And then you're so busy criticizing all sorts of other people for being too expensive to live there. And now you are trying to build a building like this, where you want to give more to the general housing sector. The general housing sector is basically flawed, because it is not about supporting people who need cheap housing, but it is about a waiting list and you may have been a doctor, and you may have been on the waiting list for many years, and then you have access to a cheap accommodation. So in this way the entire construction around the general housing sector is deeply, deeply missed. In addition, we can see that in many of the areas where they are, they do not lift a responsibility to ensure that there is no insecurity or anything else in the areas. So we are not in favour of the way in which the general housing sector is organised. That is why we are absolutely not in favour of giving them more favourable conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204115644	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204115654	When a municipality sells out for land or other reason, it must be at market price. That is what the law says, because the alternative would be that a municipality could favour special groups with a price below the market price, and that kind of possibility of corruption we do not want in Denmark. That is why we have a law against it. It should not be the case that if you are in a municipality, for example. has a Left Government and the municipality has a land for sale, so the municipality sells the land to another Leftman or a businessman in the region who supports the Left, at a price below market price. That would be corruption. That is why we have a law against it. Nor should it be the case that a social democratic municipality sells a municipal land cheaply to a housing organisation with which the social democratic leadership in the municipality is good friends. That would be corruption. You have to sell at the market price. That is why we have the possibility in the legislation to sell a land at a price which is actually lower than the market price, but justified by the fact that the land may only be used to a limited extent. So, to the limited extent that the ground must be used, the price is appropriate. However, if you are allowed to use the land at a later stage, you will have to pay for the extra use that you get, because otherwise it would be an expression of having received a gift in the first place. This is the mechanism with which this bill will come to an end, and it will do away with it specifically for general housing organisations. For general housing organisations which have purchased a land on the assumption that it may only be used to a limited extent for a specific purpose and have therefore received it at a lower price than if there was more free use of the land, it will be the case that a municipality is free to choose to extend the use of the land without the buyer having to pay any more for the reason later on. In principle, it could be imagined today that a general housing organisation is addressing the municipality and saying that they want to buy this land, but that unfortunately they can only pay half the price. Then the municipality says: Okay, but we actually also have some rules that make the land only half as worth, so you get it at half the price, but you can only apply it in these ways that make the land half as worth. And then the municipality decides a month later to lift the application restrictions so that the reason suddenly becomes much more valuable. This gives the housing organization a huge, huge gift. We then ask some questions to the Socialist rapporteur, who has gone to think that a government party is just letting the rapporteur go ■ whether the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party cannot see the problems of a social democratic municipality being able to favour friends in the general housing movement with cheap reasons, which they are allowed to exploit far more than originally intended. And then the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party just stands on the platform and speaks of conspiracy theories as if the legislation that ensures that municipalities are not allowed to sell land cheaply to people is simply conspiracy theories. This reflects a well-founded fear that municipalities may favour friends of the ruling regime. That is why we have a law against it, a law that will now be undermined by the law coming from the government. It's not a conspiracy theory that we have that law. That's because fear is justified. There is a justified fear that municipalities with certain regimes will favour certain interest groups and certain people who are on good terms with that regime. That's what's going to happen here. We are all in favour of the objective that is stated, namely that it will allow the city to be drained. We are all in favour of dense cities. The city's attraction value is its many people. However, we cannot solve this problem by allowing for corruption-like conditions in social-democratic-led municipalities which can then favour their friends in the general housing organisations. We will not be involved in this, never at all, and that is why we are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204120201	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thus, all the rapporteurs from the parties have had the opportunity to speak, and so I can give the floor to the Minister for Housing. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204120215	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the lively debate in this Chamber. It's a nice change from last week's rather more sleepy atmosphere. This is a small legislative proposal in terms of scope, but I hope that it will be of great importance to the municipalities and housing organisations that want to continue to provide existing general housing services. I would like to mention that the proposal is a revised version of L 118, which was tabled on 26 February 2020 and which lapsed before first reading due to the covid-19, and the difference between the lapsed legislative proposal and what is now under discussion, I will go into in more detail. We can see that there are fewer and fewer building sites, especially in the large cities that are growing at the same time. If we want more housing to be built in the existing neighbourhoods and not just in urban development areas, we need to make better use of existing land, including in the general housing sections. I have met many general housing organisations and municipalities who think that existing general buildings will be better used. Building in an existing neighborhood has many advantages: there are pipes in the ground, there is infrastructure in place, and there are schools and day care institutions. This is in many ways a better way to do it than to develop new land. It is clear that it is not just a matter of covering green areas with concrete, but if you have, for example, a general building that can become a floor higher, or you can make apartments where there are drying ceilings today, it could be an option, and if we succeed in sealing up the general buildings and land, it will hopefully rub off on the denouncing of the private properties. There is no doubt that the sealing potential is greatest in our largest municipalities. In connection with the sale of municipal land, some municipalities have had the practice of agreeing on special conditions for additional purchases. The additional purchase price is an amount which the municipality collects if the property is used for more than or for other purposes than those provided for in the original sale. Where the municipality has the right to charge the additional purchase price, it may not, without legal provisions, decide not to charge the additional purchase price. The bill provides this legal basis. We propose that the municipal council be given the opportunity to refrain from requiring payment of an additional purchase price when building more general housing, private housing or occupation in existing general housing buildings. L 118, which lapsed because of the covid-19, included only congestion of general housing. We have now extended this to cover the sealing up of private homes and businesses. We have seen an increasing interest in general housing organisations and municipalities in awning general buildings with private homes, for example. cooperative housing, and we must support that. In short, we want to remove one of the barriers preventing better use of the land in existing general housing units. This will be an optional scheme so that the municipality can decide for itself in which cases the claim can be waived. Then I would just like to comment on a few of the things that have been turned around here. First of all, I want to go to sir. Alex Ahrendtsen says that, in principle, I can see the challenge of creating increased urbanisation, but at the same time I would also say that when it is there and when you have very high housing prices, I also believe that we have a task in trying to make better use of the land, so that it is not just a type of citizen who lives in our large cities. I really think the proposal to try to do some kind of ongoing perhaps five-year evaluation is fine, and I would ask the people of the Ministry to try to see how it could be arranged, and then I think we can find a scheme that makes sense. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur asked why there are other rules for vulnerable residential areas. It is part of the parallel society package, and the contracting circle behind it has an agreement up to 2025 that these special rules apply in vulnerable residential areas, where, as far as I remember, you cannot build general housing but keep up with private construction, without the municipality having to charge an additional purchase price, and of course we stand by that agreement. I would mention, for example, that in areas such as Folehaven and Cherry Garden in Valby, there has been an interest also in bringing some private housing or cooperative housing into the areas which are very dominated by general housing, and that is why it is one of the housing organisations which has approached between these two legislative proposals to call for us to revise it. And on that basis, we think it makes sense to be able to go that way as well. Then I would like to say to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur and indeed also to Egil Hulgaard, but he must be excused in that he has not been in this field for so long: I think it is embarrassing that we are standing and having to accept a corruption complaint, both because we should be able to keep a better tone than that, but mostly because the rapporteur himself has been a minister in this area and should have a minimum of insight into the legislation that applies here, including the legislation that applies to the general housing organisations. It says quite clearly that there are specific objectives for which support must be provided. We cannot therefore, as a general housing organisation, as the rapporteur accuses my party of doing, receiving support or giving support to political parties, for example. give 1 million kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democratic Party in Holbæk, if you want to do so, is what was said earlier, that is to say, that support was given. I can say quite clearly and under all responsibilities, ministerial responsibilities and parliamentary responsibilities that I have never received 1 kr. from some general housing organizations, and I will never get to it either, because it is not legal. We must be able to expect a former minister to have so much control over the area for which we have been sitting and ministering for two and a half years, that we do not get carried away with accusations of corruption, knowing that the social democracy, the social democratic municipalities, is being taken into account, at all within the legislation, is not able to provide support in the way that, for example, the trade unions mentioned in the same rebirth have. I just think we should stay too good for that. And then we must make sure that what we are focusing on here is the legislation that exists and not on all kinds of conspiracies that social democratic municipalities provide special arrangements for general housing organisations, so as to receive some sort of return commission that is not legal at all. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204120840	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister, and the first one to ask for the floor is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204120845	Thank you. Then the Minister was given 30, 40, 50 seconds to discuss a point of view which I have not expressed, because in this debate I did not say that housing organisations support the Social Democracy. I have said that you are friends of the Social Democratic Party; I have said that the Social Democratic Party supports housing organisations. But I have not said that housing organizations support the Social Democracy. So it was not a view that existed in the debate that the Housing Minister was discussing. What I would like to discuss is this: there is nothing in the rules to add an additional purchase price to the municipality, which prevents the expansion of remaining areas in the areas of general housing organisations. It's just that there's not a lot of desire to do it when you can't get the money on it. And what the law here does is to give housing organizations the opportunity to score the cash on having bought a cheap land, because it should only be used for a limited purpose • score the cashier that this land can now be sold on because it can be used for a larger purpose. That is the reason for the draft law and not the fact that the current rules do not provide for the possibility of using available capacity on land. All you have to do is add an additional purchase price to the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121005	Well, I am glad that the rapporteur is now backing up from the point of view of the past, comparing, for example, a businessman from the Left, who gives support to the Left, with a housing organisation. I am glad that, after all, we can now see that it looked awkward. But I would say in relation to the additional purchase price that the main reason why the land built on is cheap is when the housing has been built. Well, when Lejerbo built their department in Strandgade at Christianshavn, a land there didn't cost much money, but it does today. And that's the main reason why many of these reasons were bought cheaply it was because, for example, the reasons in Copenhagen didn't cost as much in the 1980s as they do today. But no matter what, it is beautiful if you succeed in creating more square meters in our cities that you make sure that general housing organisations build higher or build closer, for example, so that you can expand the area there is. And in some places it simply cannot be done, because building prices are high and the additional purchase price is high, and so we are giving them the opportunity now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121107	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121110	If a municipality has sold a land to a general housing organisation entirely under market conditions, no additional purchase price is required when the organisation will eventually make more use of that land than it originally did. It is only because the land has been bought cheaper than if it had been sold under normal market conditions with general uses that an additional purchase price has to be added. So what the Minister is saying is simply wrong. I would still like to hear whether the Minister really does not recognise the principle that municipalities should not be able to give gifts to friends of the municipalities, and would the Minister confirm that the Social Democracy and the General Housing Movement are friends?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121151	Nah, the general housing movement is widely composed, just as the Folketing is widely composed. There are both bourgeoisly founded social housing organisations • it could be something like Domea, which has its roots in the philanthropic bourgeois movement, and it could also be KAB, which is a rather large housing organisation • and then there are housing organizations that have roots in the Social Democracy, where AAB could be an example or fsb or Lejerbo. It is, of course, different, just as we are different in here, and that does not mean that a housing organisation is automatically social-democratic because there are some housing organisations that are social-democratic. I would say that it is true, of course, that general land has been cheaper, but when a land has been very cheap in Copenhagen, it is of course due to the fact that far, by far, most general housing in Copenhagen was built either in the 1930s and 1940s or in the 1980s, where the land cost less than they cost today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121238	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121244	After all, we have many common dwellings which have been built because they wanted more housing to be built. Thus, at different times in history, we have had a lack of housing in Denmark, and there have also been some periods when there has been a demand for some element building to be done quickly, because one had to quickly create housing for the people who needed a dwelling. So the housing movement has lifted that in Denmark, and I think that is very good. I really think it would be nice to come up with how many areas, how many municipalities actually have this additional purchase price, because the debate here is running high, but it is probably going to get higher than there are grounds for doing so. With regard to what should apply to the vulnerable residential areas after 1 January 2025, I really would like the Minister to look into it more closely and look at what it is that we could be accommodating about, because we have a number of residential areas that have just come up with this list of vulnerable dwellings. Why not help them with some long-term planning so that this can also apply to them after 1 January 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121351	We can certainly look at whether this can apply after 1 January 2025. I don't know, of course. It was a deal we made a few years ago. It also helped LA's rapporteur back then, in other words to give local authorities the opportunity simply to give a gift to general housing organisations in vulnerable residential areas. I think we should have the opportunity to do so, because what is called a gift is that our urban development is not completely market driven, but is driven by a number of political considerations, which, of course, as a municipality, must be given the opportunity to give priority to providing support for having housing that is also cheaper in the long term or where there are other political considerations, such as the desire for mixed housing areas. I think we will find a solution to this after 1 January 2025. I cannot imagine a situation where it will be the only ones excluded, but it is in another debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121445	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121447	Thank you for your kindness. I think it's good to make laws that have a potential to work longer. That is why I think it is actually obvious that in this draft law we are going in with the fact that we are actively dealing with what should happen to vulnerable residential areas after 1 January 2025, so that we do not have to invent a new bill sometime in 2024. It is therefore important that there is a clear framework, a predictable framework on what is the development potential of the general sector. So thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121519	After all, the Enhedslisten still has the opportunity to join the parallel society package. Then you can come in and influence it, but I do not think it is the same way as I remember the debate in the past. In any case, it is, of course, central to ensuring the creation of mixed housing areas. Now we have development plans for most areas, and with them you have the first five years towards 2030 the opportunity to implement the seals you want in those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121546	The next brief remark is to Mr. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121550	Thank you. I thought it was a little stiff that I should be involved in a discussion about corruption charges and all sorts of things. The only thing I really did was to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether there was a link between social democracy and the general housing company. I didn't get an answer to that, and I think it was kind of naughty. So the Minister is very happy to comment on that. What I really want to ask is: what is the Minister's expectation of this package in relation to the distribution between general and private homes and professions? What is going to be reflected in the vision of the Minister? And then I just have a small clarification question, because the Minister also mentioned the possibility of cooperative housing in these areas, but in the proposal there is therefore only general housing and private housing and occupation, so the question is whether private housing is included in shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121656	Yes, cohabitation is private housing, unlike subsidized housing, so it is included in that part. I would like to say that I am sorry if I had included the rapporteur in that part. Of course that was not the rapporteur's own statement. But I have been a member of the Social Democratic Party for 19 years, and I have never ever come across an organizational structure or a overlap between Social Democracy as a party and the general housing organizations never. I have never received a crown in support of any general housing organizations. So the idea that there should be some kind of weave is some kind of imaginary fetus that exists in some places. But if the rapporteur asks whether there is a overlap between, for example, the trade union movement and the social democracy, I would say that it can be found in several places because it has grown out of the same party, but it is not with the housing movement. Well, I care about the housing movement, so for me it doesn't do so much that I get associated with it, but I'm puzzled by that conspiracy theory that exists in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121803	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121808	There was one more question in my question Sorry, I forgot) and it was about this distribution, i.e. which types of housing will be implemented by this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121821	Well, I think that it will primarily be general housing that will be built in those places, because it will be easiest to get adopted. The local department has to decide, which is why it will be easier. However, in some places, for example in very large general residential areas, which are not on any of the lists, vulnerable residential areas, etc., I think it would be a good thing to get something private in here. And this was actually done before the parallel society package, for example in Tingbjerg you were on the way to building private homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121846	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121849	Thank you. In his speech, the Minister did not address this issue with the economic consequences for business. I wonder that it says it has no impact on business, because if you give some an advantage, but not some others, then it will automatically have a negative effect on the latter. I think that is also recognised when it comes to basic market mechanisms. Why has it not been included that this has an economic impact on business?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204121913	This is an opportunity for the individual municipality to take advantage of. This means that if you have a residential area in Aarhus, where you want to keep up with general housing, you have the opportunity to do so. Of course, we expect some to use the law, but we have no way of assessing how much will be of construction as a result of it. If you look at what is being built at the same time, then you have to say that there is no guarantee that because something common is being built, something private would have been built on the same site. If the rapporteur goes to Vejlby West and looks there, then you want to build some private homes because there is room for it. However, it is not certain that the same department and the same housing organisation would have built private homes if possible. It may be that they do not want to or think it is wrong. That is why there are some democratic decisions which make it extremely difficult to make up what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204122005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204122008	I can accept that. As I just remember, it said that it had no financial consequences. It is a slightly different explanation to say that it has not been possible to calculate that it has some economic consequences. I think there is a nuance difference between the two. I'd like to ask you something else. This could give a loss to some municipalities that aren't gonna get this money into their boxes. For they will lack the money for welfare or whatever they want to spend the money on. Can they raise the tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20201204122036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204122039	I don't think any municipalities are going to need this money. Over the last ten years, if we look at the amount of a municipal additional purchase price that has been introduced with this kind of scheme, that is a very low amount. Now I don't remember the exact amount, but it's a very low amount, it's almost nothing. It is not being used today, for it is very difficult to build, for example, penthouses within the DKK 26,000. per m2, one must build for as a general housing organisation and at the same time pay both the additional purchase price and a very high construction price, which is currently there. So I think the alternative to adopting this is that there is no money or very little money coming in. Now there is no money coming in, so I think it is about the same thing. But of course I can get the precise figures for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204122120	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201204122139	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 8 December 2020 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
