ParlaMint-DK_20200515100003	The meeting is open. Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Hasteforskning nr. 64 (What can the Minister say about the background and reasons why many in Muslim parallel societies have ignored the distance requirements laid down by the authorities, which has led to an increased risk of infection with covid-19? ) The title of the notified case will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200515100029	The debate is open. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515100046	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for focusing on an important topic. Several of us started the discussion during our consultation yesterday, but I look forward to discussing it again today. We must combat mad driving, we agree on that, and we are actually quite in agreement with the proposers when it comes to the overall solutions. Should the police immediately take the car and the driver's license from people? Yeah. Should the car be confiscated? Yeah. Is the penalty to be tightened up? Yeah. Should the role of the leasing industry be viewed? Yeah. But there is so much difference between how we are going to do it in concrete terms. The government wants to significantly expand the possibilities of confiscation, so the starting point is that the car is confiscated, regardless of who owns the car. And here I am thinking in particular of leased cars, because I would like to emphasise that the National Police have indicated that there is a need to take action against lunatic drivers in leased cars. The National Police have among other things: knowledge of examples that the owners of certain leasing companies are in contact with the gang environment and that some gang groups use certain leasing companies, including that gang members can access expensive luxury cars, despite being on cash assistance. It has to be stopped. The cars simply need to be confiscated, and the police must seize them on the spot. The government will also tighten up the penalties. We are proposing significant punishments for, among other things. the most serious speed violations where we go from a starting point on fines in first-time cases to prison. In addition, my ministry is examining the level of punishment in the penal code for dangerous driving to see if there is a need for the punishments or perhaps a new provision to ensure a sufficiently high level of punishment. It was also a problem that we encountered yesterday when the rapporteur of the Left pointed out that there was little point in having a very large criminal framework if the use of the criminal framework, and hence the level of punishment, were consistently in the lower part of the criminal framework. That is why we will also be looking at the levels of penalties. I am not in favour of minimum penalties, as proposed in the motion for a resolution. I believe that we must allow the courts to determine the level of punishment in the specific case and that we politicians must ensure that the courts have the right framework for determining the penalty in the specific case. And, of course, we have done so in other situations that we not only regulate the criminal framework, but also in the comments to the bill indicate the level of penalties. And in this way the problem of minimum penalties is avoided, but at the same time it can ensure that the level of penalties is where we want it to be. The Danish People's Party proposes that immediate rulings be applied. As I mentioned at yesterday's consultation, the courts can already judge immediately, but that is one of them. a condition that there is a confession and that is why it is not always possible in practice. However, as I also mentioned yesterday, there is a possibility of detention. And that possibility will be extended when we tighten up the penalties. The Danish People's Party has also put forward a proposal for a supplementary sentence if the driver of madness does not appear in court. And I fully agree that it is unacceptable not to come to court and waste everyone's time. It is unfair to the victims, it is expensive for society. This is not only true in cases of driving madness. This is the case in all cases, and it is a top priority for me to reduce the duration of proceedings in general, just as I know it is also for all other parties in the Folketing, and that is one of the things that we have to work on in connection with the forthcoming multi-year agreement for police and prosecutors: it will be exactly the time of proceedings. The idea of additional penalties for non-compliance is interesting, and I would ask my officials to look at this not only in cases of driving madness, but at all to ensure that it has consequences if you do not. Dansk Folkeparti also suggests that speeding tickets for driving madness should be paid by owner, lessee or tenant. My position is clear: drivers of madness should not have speeding tickets, they should go to prison. The Danish People's Party also proposes that insanity drivers should be denied the right to drive a borrowed, leased or rented car. Here too, I believe, the Danish People's Party is a little too soft. I believe that insanity drivers should be deprived of the right to drive a car sentence! Among other things, the government is intensifying its efforts. the period of cancellation of the most serious speed violations to a minimum of 3 years and ensures that in future the police will not be able to, but must withdraw the driver's right immediately. The penalty for driving during the period of absence for convicted drivers of madness must also be tightened from a starting point on fines to a starting point on imprisonment in first-time cases. The Danish People's Party then proposes that we regulate who may use a leased car and that we introduce new control and information obligations for the leasing companies. But I do not think it should be illegal for a mother to lease a car to his son or to lend the leased car to his neighbour, because it is quite normal behavior, and we should be careful not to make the lives of ordinary people and their opportunities to live the life that is part of their natural everyday lives in an attempt to hit the criminals. Nor do I imagine that leasing companies have the great opportunities to exercise effective control over who is actually driving the leased car. However, I agree that initiatives need to be taken in relation to the leasing sector. And the Danish People's Party's proposal to give access to e-tax data is already part of the government's initiative in that, when a leasing company arrives to lease a car, it may be necessary for it to allow control to be exercised. The Government will also initiate a strengthened control of leasing companies using rules on proportional registration fees in order to determine whether leases are used to conceal the real ownership of the vehicle, among other things. through verification of the underlying payment flows. I believe that the government's proposal will make a real difference to road traffic officers, to safety on Danish roads. And I believe that the government's overall initiative is better than the proposals of the Danish People's Party. That is why the government cannot support the resolution, but I would very much like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for highlighting this issue. And I hope, and so I expect, that the Danish People's Party will support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515100806	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup
ParlaMint-DK_20200515100810	Thank you. And thank you for such half-way support for the Danish People's Party's proposal, which is actually an expression of a certain impatience in relation to when something comes from the government. We were last told at yesterday's conciliation that it will then be after the summer that something will be put forward by the government in the Folketing. However, I would like to ask the Minister's point about this immediately, because we believe that it is extremely important that, at the same time, we have a driver of madness who has risked the health of families by driving wildly and violently, we can use immediate sentences, on the one hand, to remove the car and, on the other hand, to bring about a consequence that is to take and feel. And the Minister then says that it is possible to do so today, but that there must be a confession in order to be able to use an immediate judgment and remove the person from the street in that way. I would then like to hear the Minister, if it is not really just a political decision, that there should be a confession in order to be able to use immediate rulings, and if we in the Danish Parliament could not suggest that we remove the letter and will the minister do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515100925	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515100926	First to the time perspective: when we do not have the opportunity to deal with the legislative proposals that are to form the overall package for driving madness, on this side of the summer holiday, it is because we have had a period in which we have been hit by the corona crisis and where we in the Ministry of Justice, but indeed also the Ministry of Transport, have been heavily suspended in other areas, just as society has been shut down. I would very much have liked the government to have liked us to be able to implement the bill now. We can then, and will, present it immediately at the beginning of the next session, so that we can adopt the legislative proposal in that session. I think that the important thing, in terms of how it is reacted, is that we are doing so, that the moment a driver of madness is stopped, the car will be taken from the person concerned, the driving licence will be taken from him and he will be placed on the side of the road and will have to find his own way home unless, of course, he can be immediately in custody.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101034	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101035	Yes, and I also think that for most family fathers who had to have gotten into such a situation, for decent people, it would be okay that it was the consequence if it had really gone badly. We just have to remember that here we are talking about gang members, often gang-related, who drive so wildly and violently, and who have no respect that they only get their car taken; they can find another car; they can lease another car from the company that might be associated with this gang business. So I ask: could we not in the Folketing do this with the confession, so that we can give an immediate judgment, if?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101116	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101117	We should therefore be able to do so, when you ask for a confession, because you put people in prison immediately, and it is usually the case that people have to be judged with the legal guarantees that are there, the opportunities for defence and so on. And that is why one of the things that is being built in is precisely this: if we are to skip the legal terms, there must be a confession which, as far as I remember, must be supported by the circumstances. I think it would be better to focus on the possibility of detention here, which is the appropriate tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101156	We thank the Minister for Justice. There are no more brief comments, which is why we can start the rapporteur's round. First, it's sir. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101215	Thank you for that, President. This is a fine opportunity to discuss one of the issues that concerns us all very much: when we see examples of completely insane, ruthless madness, which puts the lives of other innocent people at risk, and which unfortunately also cost human lives. After all, we all have the incident at Langebro fresh in the memory of a cop who lost his life because a mad driver drove completely horribly. That is why it is high time that we did so! I therefore fully share the impatience of the Danish People's Party, and the Minister for Justice has, as such, explained why we, as the governing party, actually go even further than what the Danish People's Party is proposing. We are impatient, we share impatience, and that is kindly meant. On the other hand, it may also be fair to look back and ask: Why have we not done anything in the past? So, what happened in the last parliamentary term, when the Danish People's Party was the largest bourgeois party, and where we also had these examples? Yes, there was work on the case, and I am not pointing my finger at the then bourgeois government. I don't think they were stupid and lazy and wouldn't do anything about this. In fact, I only have the impression that you worked seriously to look at how you could work with this confiscation. We just have to say that we did not succeed in making a proposal. It is not up to me to say exactly what the discussions were back then, but one might well think that what we are actually doing now is that we are taking a car that somebody else owns. Because there's a crazy driver driving it, we're taking the car. We confiscate it and we do more than that. After all, we sell it as the ultimate consequence and take the money and put it in the treasury. The issue of ownership of that car, as I understand it, was one of the knots which was very difficult to remove. That's where we're gonna hit really hard. Therefore, it is also reasonable to ask the Danish People's Party that question. Back in December 2011, it was said that drivers of madness should now be locked up, and in October 2018 a consultation question was put to the then Transport Minister, asking: Can we not, however, make an administrative withdrawal of the driving licence? Well, there have been plenty of such occasions. I fully share the impatience and I am glad that we are now getting something done about it. The point here is just that it may be quite fresh to point the finger at this government, which actually comes up with a bill, a package that goes far beyond the initiatives put forward by the then government, and to be critical of the fact that we are not going to have it implemented quickly enough when we have, in fact, almost six months of the government's life, presented this package. It has unfortunately been a little delayed here because of corona, but nevertheless we take a hard look and go further than what the Danish People's Party wants. So I think this is an excellent opportunity to mark it. I would also like to point out that I am glad that we agree that something really needs to be done about this. As far as I am concerned, we are actually taking one of the most important initiatives. One thing is to sharpen the penalty, which has also just been discussed, and to make sure that these people go to prison and not just let go of a fine, but I really believe that it will have an effect, that you physically take the cars, remove them from the road, sell them and put the money in the treasury. If a driver of madness or some of these gang members, as we are also talking about, has this behavior repeatedly, it is, after all, a reasonable cost-effective affair for them to have one of these machines removed, which, unfortunately, they are racing around in. So I am glad that we are now getting another opportunity to mark that we are actually dealing with those who drive the cars and that we are taking the cars and taking action against the leasing companies and so on. etc. That is also why it concerns a large number of ministerial areas. I think the Minister for Justice has explained very well why we do not support the proposal here, so I shall not dwell on that any more, but I am just pleased that we are now actually doing something about it and that we are taking a hard look at it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101653	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101656	Thank you, and thank you for, yes, not support for the proposal, but at least for the principle that something should be done. I'd like to hear what happens next. I spoke a little about this with the Minister for Justice, but I do not really think I was given a reassuring answer there. Now we imagine that we have an insane driver, Determinated, who keeps driving wildly and violently. And we know them well, unfortunately. The police know them and rip their own hair over why they can't take action against them. The police have then suggested that you can confiscate the car, and it also looks as if that is what the government wants, and that is what the Danish People's Party's proposal says. What we are proposing above is that you make an immediate detention. The Minister then says that we can only do so if he confesses to insanity. That is what I am asking the Social Democrat rapporteur: will the Social Democrats be involved in the fact that we in the Danish Parliament are tightening up the rules for immediate detention so that we get the driver off the street immediately, and so that we remove the part about confession but ensure that there is a quick trial?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101805	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101807	If you ask me if I have a different opinion from that of the Minister for Justice, the answer may not be surprising, namely, that I do not. I also heard the Minister for Justice say that, in relation to detention, there are some possibilities for actually removing these people and getting them into custody, namely by using custody. And the people we are talking about here are some people that the police also know very well to a large extent, because they are some people who are partly registered, also as a consequence of the common gang packages we have made, partly probably also want some history. And there we have only one interest in putting in as hard a position as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101847	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101849	Well, the incarceration thing sounds pretty good. The thing is, it takes a lot to get you in custody. That is why I would like to say that with the penalties that I can see lies in the proposal made by the government, it will not in the vast majority of cases lead to detention. That is why I say: could we not agree here in Parliament and I ask the Socialists for the fourth time that we remove the requirement that is the obstacle to making an immediate judgment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101921	It's fine that you ask for the fourth time. But you actually got answers to the questions from the Justice Department the first time you asked the questions. So for the sake of all of our health, I just thought it was a little much just to stand and repeat that answer. In fact, I was more concerned with the part of the question which is also about our having our penalties, but are they being used well enough? I'd love to take a look at that. Can we increase the standard of punishment within the framework of penalties? If we can make some political words about it, I would very much like to be involved in working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101953	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515101955	Thank you. I ask out of general curiosity and it is certainly not certain that the rapporteur can answer the question, but I am still trying; I should have put it to the Minister for Justice. But this is the proposal that comes from the government this autumn. We are talking about the leasing companies, and from what I hear, they are actually going to be the ones who get the pain. They're gonna lose a car without getting the money, as far as I knew. Let it go. But what about other situations? Let's take the example that I'm borrowing my car to sir. Peter Skaarup, who is a nice and decent man, and he lends it to Mrs Rosa Lund, who drives madness. Do I lose my car? There's nothing to blame me for. The Minister of Justice is nodding. Maybe that's almost the answer. It's just ordinary curiosity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102048	Then I'll almost be superfluous up here if the debate goes down there. But yeah, I think you got it right. There is no difference between whether you borrow your mother's car or you rent someone from the leasing company, but we are actually in touch with it, which I also understood was the challenge for the then government, which I again acknowledge worked with the issue. I have no reason to believe that it was not taken seriously, but it is precisely the issue of ownership that has been one of the crunches, and I am glad that we are now taking very hard action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102122	Although it is communication across the hall, one still has to be careful with the direct you address. Here you go, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102128	I can only thank you for your answer anyway. That was great. To Mr. Peter Skaarup, I can say that this loan relationship is out of the question. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102148	I don't think I'm gonna borrow a car either. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102152	Thus, with a clarification of that question, we would like to thank Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, and Mr. Peter Skaarup comes at the end as rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102205	Thank you. I can say at the outset that on the Left side we are one hundred percent in agreement with the intentions behind the proposal here from the Danish People's Party. The driving of madness must be severely punished. It is, of course, a matter of more or less knowingly putting the lives and health of others at risk and, as I said, it must be severely punished. If we look at how this is being punished today, we can see that there are three provisions in the criminal code that can be applied. The three provisions have in common a penalty of eight years in prison. The Ministry of Justice has been kind enough in answering question 234 to explain the case law in force. For one provision, negligent manslaughter in traffic, the case law is between 1 and 3 years, for the second provision, negligently significant bodily injury, is practice of 6 months of conditional prison and 120 hours of community service, and for the third provision, which is called intentional danger abuse, Paragraph 252, is practice of 20 days of conditional prison up to 6 months in prison. I mean, these are provisions with a penalty of eight years in prison, where the levels are as they are here. When I highlight this, it is because these are excellent examples of how, to some extent, the penal code is causing people to gloom by signalling a penalty framework, which, after all, is not relevant at all in relation to the final punishment. This is something we need to look into in the further work here in the Folketing and probably also in the forthcoming police negotiations. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for its proposal, but at the same time I must say that there are some specific parts of the proposal which, in my view, either cannot be done or which the Left is at least unable to support. The additional sentence, if you do not appear in court, may I have some doubts as to whether it is possible to do so at all. Today, it is the case that you can be convicted of non-compliance if it is up to 6 months in prison that you are at risk. But it's not like you get 9 months or 12 months because you don't show up. Of course, you can consider changing it, but it's gonna be quite a strange performance. I mean, the defendant doesn't have a duty to speak in court. So you just have to see him in court... well, let it go. But as I said, it was just one example of some of it that I really do not think can be done. In any event, immediate action will require a change in the law on the administration of justice. A reinforced confession is required today, and the judge must find it inconceivable to judge the person immediately, but here too it is true that the law on justice can be amended if that is what you want. The Danish People's Party proposes minimum penalties. We are not crazy about that in the Left, I can safely say. At the same time, however, I can say that the penalty imposed by the Danish People's Party proposal does not apply either, because in the Left we do not want madness to be punished at all by a fine. That is what the government's proposals are all about. It just sounds great for now to use that expression. So I hope that with the prospect of increased punishment according to both the government's and the Danish People's Party's proposals, detention will become an entirely automatic consequence of madness driving. And I'm sure I can say to Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup, that if it is not, we are willing to change the rules of custody so that it will be so. I don't want a lawyer standing in the way of it. We are pleased that the government is working on an initiative, and it sounds like it is a play that can be understood, with some significant consequences in it. That it takes time, I fully understand, because it looks like a task for at least the fourth year of law school when it comes to taking a car from a person who is totally innocent of what has passed. So it looks like you're giving a penalty for a crime that he's not guilty of at all. Anyway, I look forward to seeing the proposal. I have deep respect for the fact that something is now being done about it, but I am a little concerned that there are apparently three ministries involved in this. On the other hand, I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is evidently a thief. So let's get this going as soon as possible in the new parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102656	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102658	Thank you for that and thank you for the very partial support for the proposal from the Left. I heard that the rapporteur, Mr von der Vring, said: Preben Bang Henriksen mentioned that it was perhaps a little difficult to change the rules of immediate judgment, from the point of view of the Left, in other words to change the fact that it requires a confession which the Minister of Justice and the Socialists have mentioned. The Danish People's Party would like to say so. But what the Left, as I understand it, is suggesting as an alternative to removing the driver of madness from the street and not taking a new car and driving on without a driver's license.They don't care if you go in and look at the rules of detention, so you can move x-person directly off the street and away from the cars. How would the Left want it to be arranged? How does the Left think this would happen with regard to custody? That would, of course, require, as the Minister of Justice has said, considerably higher penalties for fulfilling the conditions for detention of insanity drivers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102807	In any event, this would require a change in the rules of the Code of Civil Procedure on detention. However, several changes have already been made to make it easier to incarcerate certain types of crime, for example. violence, etc. I imagine you could include crazy driving in there. I haven't been deeper into it. I can only promise you, sir. Skaarup that, in the view of the Left, it will not be the case that a driver of madness is allowed to leave the place and go out and have fun in the city. He's going to be in custody, and if we need to change the law, we'll do it. Whether this can be done through what the Minister is doing will also be fine. I can only mention what the rules are like today. It therefore requires that there be both a confession and that the judge find that it is also a confirmed confession. There are many people who confess something they haven't done. But then I have to say it, sir. Skaarup is up to it if it is not possible to apply that provision, that is to say, that you will get your judgment quickly. I have to say that it is like everything else here in the Folketing: we want to give priority to everything, but with the same means it also requires that something is downgraded. This is a major discussion. We'll take that during the police negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102921	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515102928	I would like to thank you for your review, in relation to what you could imagine. I think it is positive, I would say, because we in the Danish People's Party do not really care about the means of removing these crazy drivers from the street, for example some of the very crazy things we have seen on a regular basis. That's why it's positive if the Left wants to do this. But it's gonna take so long and it's gonna be mr. Preben Bang Henriksen doesn't agree with that? A little more punishments are not enough for the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103002	Well, I can only confirm that it should be written into the law or observations, or whatever it takes, that is to say amendments to the relevant provision of the Code of Procedure in relation to the proposal we will be coming to in October. It will not be the case that a driver of madness must be able to continue free on the same day as he has committed this serious crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103022	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen and move on to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103035	Thank you for the floor. When you learn to drive a car, you have to go through a course where you get some theory and are taught by a driving instructor. Because if you do not follow the rules and drive wisely, it can have consequences not only for yourself but also for others. It's dangerous to drive too fast, too deadly. Unfortunately, we have seen a number of tragic examples of this, particularly the very tragic incident of the innocent policeman this summer at Langebro, who was not at work. With good reason, this has increased political attention to the matter, and there is full agreement in the Folketing that insanity motorism is something to be dealt with. As a result, the government has put forward a number of proposals to combat insanity motorism, in which the Radical Left can support several of the proposals. However, the draft law has been withdrawn or postponed due to the fact that various ministries have been asked during this time to postpone parts of their legislation. One of the good suggestions in the government's proposal was that if you drive over 200 km/h, you just had to take a trip in the hum, because there is no consideration for those who drive so fast and so crazyly no consideration to take head! Unfortunately, among other things... This proposal is not included in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party here. We think that is a shame not to be included in the motion for a resolution. For that reason, and because the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, among other things, on minimum penalties, a special additional penalty and punishment for people who were not even in the car, if the driver cannot be identified, run a little counter to, not to say much, the fundamental legal view of the Radical Left that it is people who have something to do with the crime that we have to punish. We would rather see that it is the drivers of madness that we are shoveling, not innocent people, and that means that we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103302	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103306	One of the knots for the previous government, that is to say some of the things you were working on, was the question about this actually being able to confiscate the car in terms of ownership. I have noted in the past that the Radicals have been somewhat critical of the part of the proposal which I really think is one of the most important things. I fully agree with the punishments that we can now actually remove that car from the road, seize it and sell it, even if the driver does not own the car. It has actually been one of the obstacles; for years you have been unable to do anything about this because you have been sitting and looking at ownership. With respect for the fact that one can then delve more into it when the legislative proposals come and so on, I just want to hear: where do you radicals stand in relation to that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103355	We are willing to look at this, but the model in which the car is taken from someone who has not committed the crime as such, given that some others are committing a crime, we are probably a little bit concerned, but we are open to looking generally at removing the cars from the roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103415	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103416	I am glad that we will be discussing this in greater detail. When I ask this directly, of course, it is because we are in here to mess with the fact that some of these crazy drivers, or most of them, are the types we know from other crime, and behind them are all kinds of constructions. It is quite incomprehensible that a person who has just been released from prison and does not own a crown can join a new large Mercedes imported by some fake leasing company etc. etc. That is why we need to think very in cash about what we are going to do there. It has been a difficult exercise, I know, and here I am glad that we are actually doing something very cash. And I hear it positively, i.e. that the Radicals may in fact be able to take part in that part too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103502	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103502-2	I look forward to those discussions and acknowledge that this is something that we agree we should do something about. Nor should it be the case that, as a leasing company or a landlord, you should not be in good faith when you rent something to someone. In other words, one must be in good faith and not in bad faith in the sense that if one has some sort of idea that it may well be, it must be used to drive madness carism, it must of course be confiscated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103530	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And that's why we can move on to Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103548	Thank you for the floor. I believe that we all agree that carnage must be stopped, but if you want SF's support for a resolution, you should probably never put minimum penalties into it, even if it is about driving madness, which we are really concerned about fighting. We are not pale about raising the penalty for gross and irresponsible driving, but we actually think it is a task for the courts to take into account the things that can pull up and down in the measurement. This does not really allow for minimum penalties, which is why we believe that the government's proposals to combat mad driving are better in this area. Because we are in the process of examining how to secure prison sentences rather than fines when driving madness, and we are actually quite satisfied with that. Is there not a good thing in the Danish People's Party's proposal? Yeah, I definitely think there is. We actually agree with some of this proposal. For example: We think it is a very good proposal that in future you can confiscate a car by driving madness and also ensure that it is sold afterwards and that it can also happen when the car has been leased or you do not own it, because as we have been able to read, the police have found that some of these speed thugs are making their own leasing companies. And that means that if you just deliver the car back, they'll have a new car again, which can be part of the pool among these gang members. And, of course, it is important that we effectively put an end to this. I think there's just one particular segment here. Some respond to the fact that there is a punishment. Some people may react best to us confiscating the car. There's just one segment here that doesn't really care if they lose their driver's license, because they're driving anyway; they don't give a shit about other people's lives. I believe that the only thing that works is to hit them on the wallet, and this is taking their cars every time they break the law. Then we hit them on the wallet and their vehicle disappears, and at some point I hope if they don't sit in jail they think it's gonna be a little too bad. I also think it is a good thing that when you drive madness, harassment or the like, you are also denied the right to drive towards the treatment of criminal proceedings. It is in fact also part of the government's proposal and is very good. I think it takes too long to get around all these proposals.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I think, however, that the government's proposal brings us a great deal along the way, although of course one could also embroider a little on it. I understand that it is a trend among gang members that when they are stopped, they say that they have stolen the keys of the comrade, that is that it is a use theft. Then the police will not be able to confiscate it, because then it is a theft and not someone who has deliberately borrowed the keys. I think that is actually a problem, and it really offends me that you will be able to bypass this. I have no idea what we are doing about it, but perhaps we can discuss whether there are any obvious solutions. Maybe we could do something about that. So I'm prepared to close some of the holes that make these unscrupulous types of people make the roads insecure. I think that all of us are affected by security, but I think I would say that the government's package of legislative proposals, which is, after all, comprehensive, with both the disqualification of driving rights, prison sentences, confiscations and the prevention of being leased to the wrong ones, and many other things have the right balance. So we cannot support the Danish People's Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103927	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515103929	Thank you. In fact, I think that SF gets around some of the issues that are related to insanity drivers. What I would like to ask you about is because I understand that the SF won't support this proposal anyway... is in relation to being able to remove the person from the street right away. And there is the fact that in the proposal we are talking about immediate judgments. The Minister of Justice then says: Well, we can't, because it requires a confession. There we say in the Danish People's Party: Yes, it is today, but we are free to change the rules in here. There I want to hear SF: How will you deal with it from the SF? Will you join the Danish People's Party in asking for immediate sentences, or will you perhaps reinforce the rules on detention, so that insanity carism in itself means that you can be held in custody? How are you gonna deal with it? Something must happen and it is urgent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515104035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515104036	I think, among other things, that it solves something by taking their car. Well, hopefully they won't leave again if they can't get a new one in another way. I think this is a dilemma. I wish we could give more immediate rulings, and perhaps I would also like us to be able to file on the rules, but I can see in my legal policy that I do not think it is going to work. After all, people also have the right to some kind of fair trial, so if they want a lawyer and want to prepare for a case etc., I think it is a fundamental principle of law that is very difficult to break. That is why I think it can be a little bit challenging, but I really do recognise the thinking behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515104122	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515104123	I think it was very kind to respond in this way, i.e. with a little black talk compared to something that is actually going to work. Because, as Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt said, yes, there are some of these drivers who just come up with some flat excuse, and then they find a way out of it. We have seen that time and time again when the rules have been tightened. That is why I would like to ask the SF: will those rules be seriously changed in terms of immediate or remand? Otherwise, we just have to admit that some people do not care that their car is being removed, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515104200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515104201	I think I can reply very clearly: we do not want to change the principles of immediate sentences, but there is going to be a proposal for prison sentences, and that, if they are high enough, will mean that we can be held in custody. So I think we should wait for the government's initiative and see if it doesn't solve any of this problem. And then we should remember that if there is also political support for confiscating cars, we will at least put an end to it immediately, and we will also be denying the right to drive. So I think there are some good solutions here, so let's see how far we get with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515104236	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we can move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515104245	Thank you. That's normal, sir. Henning Hyllested, who is dealing with this area in the Enhedslisten, but unfortunately he could not be here today, so I have promised to read out this speech: First of all, a great praise to the Danish People's Party for keeping the pot cooking up in an important area like madness driving. In the Enhedslisten, we fully agree that it is totally unacceptable when some people are drifting in their muscle cars and other cars with well over 100 km/h. in urban or 160-200 km/h. or more on our highways or motorways. As you know, this has led to the death and mutilation of innocent people who were so unfortunate to get in the way of these crazy drivers, who for many, probably most, are out of educational reach. So we fully agree that strong action must be taken against the driving of madness. That's why we were also out to praise the government's initiative... Vanvidsdrift has to be stopped from February this year. We think that there are many good tactics in the motion, although there are also elements that we would like to look at when the legislative proposals that are intended to give effect to the government's proposals are put forward in the next session. We therefore look forward to the legislative proposals being put forward. Not least, are we looking forward to the examination of the level of penalties, as the difference between criminal penalties and case law may seem relatively large and why is this so? We believe that this should be investigated, just as we believe that the study announced on the leasing companies and on whether some leasing companies are used to cover one or the other real ownership of a vehicle can be useful. We can therefore see nothing more than that large parts of this motion for a resolution from DF overlap with the government's proposals quite a lot. We would therefore urge the Danish People's Party to await the government's bill, which the Minister of Justice promised as recently as yesterday's consultation will be presented in the first week of the next parliamentary assembly in the autumn. It must therefore be natural for the Danish People's Party to include its own proposals to combat madness in the legislative process at that time, to the extent that it does not feel covered by the legislative proposals. The Enhedslisten cannot therefore support the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, but expects the government to present its own legislative proposals immediately in the new parliamental assembly; and once again much praise to the Danish People's Party for keeping the pot in a boil.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515104518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515104531	Thank you. It is a problem with insanity drivers and madness motorism does not belong anywhere, and we should not tolerate some people who have no morals disregarding innocent people on the street's safety. I would therefore also like to congratulate the Danish People's Party on the good intentions behind this motion for a resolution, because drivers of madness must be severely punished. If you have so little respect for your fellow citizens and society that you choose to drive madness, it must be punished so that it can be felt, and it will also have a preventive effect. Unfortunately, we have to recognise that driving madness, which is particularly marked by gang members, is a major problem in society and requires a clear tightening up of legislation. We have seen countless examples of this, among others. Back in July 2019, when a police officer lost his life to a crazy driver. That is why I also noted with satisfaction that the government intended to address the problem, but we think it is going a little too slowly and the proposals that have been mentioned have been a little too unambitious. That is why, a few months ago, we had three concrete proposals to combat insanity motorism in order to ensure tougher penalties. First of all, we must strengthen the ability of the leasing companies to check that it is not strawmen or gang members who lease the cars, and it must be done through a register created by the police through which it is possible to blacklist madness drivers for a number of years. In addition, there must be a prison sentence for repeatedly refusing to disclose the driver's name in connection with the driving of madness. There must be prison sentences for those who officially stand on the lease or lease, and there must also be prison sentences for the owners of the leasing companies who repeatedly rent cars to persons who act on the landlords if the information about them is not provided. Unfortunately, not all leasing companies are completely clean, some of them are affiliated with some of the gangs. Finally, we ourselves propose that we prohibit cash payments by leasing a car. As I said, we recognise the good intentions behind DF's proposal, but unfortunately there are a number of points that we cannot support and which we think miss. For example, the Danish People's Party proposes that leasing and rental companies should have access to eSkatData, and this will give companies access to a number of personal information about the citizen, and that is not necessary. Like the Danish People's Party, we also want the leasing companies to have the opportunity to check the background of the people who are going to hire a car, but we do not want the leasing companies to have access to sensitive personal information that is not relevant. We imagine that under the police a register will be created where companies can obtain relevant information about a person wishing to rent or lease a car. Furthermore, I do not understand why the Danish People's Party is proposing that it should be possible to waive the right of a driver of a borrowed, rented or leased car, unless the car is used in an ordinary working environment. We don't see any reason for that. So all in all there are good intentions in the proposal from the Danish People's Party, and we support the proposal half and with reservations, and we look forward to the government coming up with a joint initiative in this area, because it is urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515104936	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515104959	Thank you for the floor. The driving of madness is an increasing problem and it is deeply unacceptable and therefore New Citizens backs up that driving madness must be severely punished. Crazy drivers must have confiscated their cars, they must be locked up and, in the case of foreigners, they must be deported consistently and after the first sentence. There are parts of this resolution that we do not agree with, and then there are parts that we seem to be clearly missing. In new citizens, we do not like minimum penalties, because we believe that it is the courts that must judge and not legislators. The penalty for driving madness is now relatively high, but it is obvious that driving madness is being punished too lightly, and we must do something about that. We are in complete agreement with that, but it will not be with minimum penalties if it is up to us. Nor do we like the idea that the rental and leasing companies will have access to eSkatData, because the Danes' private and personal data in general must be protected. Now I'm hearing Mr. Knox. Naser Khader proposes an alternative system, and I think that immediately sounds gifted, and that could be a way forward. On the other hand, we believe that the proposal lacks the necessary sanctions against foreigners who are being convicted of this type of crime. As has been said several times in the debate and as we have tried to call in the Ministry of Justice, there are indications that these are very much gangs, and we also know that a large part of the gang members have, if not foreign citizenship, at least of foreign origin, and we owe it to them to do something about that. So, in other words, we are positive about the intention of the proposal and we hope that the small thistles in the bouquet can be pulled out and that we can then add some roses that are about tightening up the penalties against foreigners. In those words, we expect to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515105213	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515105216	Thank you. I think some good things have been said by the rapporteur for New Citizens, Mrs Pernille Vermund, but there was one thing I did not quite understand and I would like to ask a little more questions about. That was the minimum penalty, because exactly when it comes to driving madness, over the years we in the Folketing have agreed on one thing, and that is that the penalties we see in relation to this area are very short. And we have repeatedly tightened up and used various kinds of signals to the courts, but it has not really succeeded in any way whatsoever. That's why the Danish People's Party says: "Patience has now been used up; now we have to give some emotional punishments." Of course also for foreign gang members who work. And so minimum or normal punishment, or whatever you call it, is necessary, just as we have done with possession of weapons. So I would like an answer: why not minimum penalties?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515105325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515105325-2	For us, however, there is first the principle that we adopt the legislation here and that it is the courts that assess what the penalty should be in the individual case. When we talk about driving madness, it covers a number of different situations, and you look at what we probably think about when we hear the word driving madness, I would like to say: all of them just have to be locked up forever. But there may then be a grey area where there are some people who commit one of these offences and who are at risk of being punished because we have made minimum penalties, but where it is a violation which is nevertheless in, what should one say, either the mild end or which, for one reason or another, is innocent and where one is judged harder than one should, because the courts are not able to weigh the individual case. We do not like that in principle. We fully agree that this must be punished more severely, which is why I am glad that there are other options than minimum penalties. I would also say that if we introduce new rules and that does not work, we will have to take it up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515105436	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515105436-2	I should just like to say that minimum penalties exist today in a number of areas. When it comes to killing, we have minimum penalties when it comes to the possession of firearms, we have minimum penalties. And it is taught that, unfortunately, the courts do not use the penalties that we impose from here, because they are quite sharp, yes, minimum penalties are a necessary evil, one might say. That is why I just want to hear new citizens: is it simply in no way in favour of minimum penalties? Is it not done in relation to killing, in relation to possession of firearms?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515105515	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515105516	Yeah, and that's why I'm saying if this doesn't work, it's the last, what to say, opportunity. When it comes to killing, it is obvious that if you deliberately kill another person, it is deliberate, and then you have to take the punishment that goes with it, even if your driving in relation to these paragraphs that are in the law is assessed as driving insane. We've seen some of these examples of those who drive around Gellerup they drive on opposite sides of the road, they hang out of the cars, they drive too fast, they drive too close. It should be obvious that it is deliberate. But is it deliberate when the older man drives the wrong roadway and maybe gets the throttle down? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515105604	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515105612	Thank you. People driving madness are a huge danger to other road users, and this is a very big problem in Danish society. It's not like it's illegal to drive fast in Denmark, you just have to rent your own track for it. The moment you embark on the common roads, where there are all sorts of other road users, cyclists, pedestrians and other drivers, the speed limits set by society must be respected in order to minimise the number of accidents. The driving of madness is an extreme breach of speed limits, which is why it is important to do something about it. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance are also open to the ideas which, among other things, include: has come from the government that, at least in special cases, you should have the opportunity to confiscate the car of people driving madness, even if it is not their own car, but is one they have leased in a leasing company or borrowed from others. I am under the pressure of special conditions, because I think it is a good means and I think it is necessary. But the special conditions must be that those who have borrowed or leased the car could become aware that the person to whom they borrow or lease is a mad driver. If, as a leasing company, you lend your car to a person who has never been punished in the past for driving madness, or if, as a private person, you lend your car to another private person with whom you know or are related, and if this person has never been punished in the past for driving madness, I would not rule out that it may be good to take the car and return it for the payment of a large confiscation fee as well. It may be that it is necessary, but even to take the car, sell it and stop the money in the treasury, when the person or the company that rented or lent the car was not aware that the tenant or the borrower was a well-known driver of madness, I think is close in itself to being crazy. That is why I imagine it must be possible every time a person is taken for insanity, to add the person to a list of insane drivers, and if, as a leasing company, you have access to that list, and if, despite the person on the list, you rent out to the person, you are responsible for it yourself if you have confiscated the car, it is sold and the money stopped in the treasury. This must also apply to some extent to people who act as stubblemen, so that you cannot just get someone else who is not on the list to do so, so if you are a well-known strawman for crazy drivers, you must also be able to get on that list, so that the leasing companies also have the opportunity to say no to lease out. In the circumstances which I think it is possible to do, we are in favour of the principle of a hard-hitting confiscation of cars by car insanity. The Danish People's Party's proposal here also means that if you drive a madman's drive, you simply have to go to a prison for at least four years. I think that is something that seems to be hard and is therefore chosen by the Danish People's Party, because it has to work hard, but I do not think the Danish People's Party has thought properly. A few years ago, there was a member of parliament who drove 115 km/h, where there was a speed limit of 50 km/h. The explanation was that he was going to a friend's funeral, but had come to the wrong church and was now on his way to the right church, and that he thought that he had come outside the city zone and therefore had to drive 80 km/h, but thus also violated that limit, but it was not madness driving compared to 80 km/h. I don't think that person should go to prison for four years. I'll tell you what. I am ready that he should have a punishment and also a high penalty, but four years of unconditional imprisonment, if this explanation is correct, for a normal law-abiding person who, under the impression of being on his way to a friend's funeral and with a belief that he or she had come outside the city zone, would also think that he or she was crazy. That is why we must vote against this motion for a resolution. Moreover, we look forward to the government making its concrete proposals on how to combat insanity motorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110127	A brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110129	The last example I would be inclined to agree with, and perhaps it is also one of the challenges I think there are in such minimum penalties. I guess that would be hard to imagine. You could also imagine something much more marginal. The first part, which the rapporteur refers to, would actually like to ask a little more, because it may also show, I think, some of the challenges that have been, even in the work of the then government in the field of confiscation. I am glad that we are now actually getting the bull by the horns and putting in hard, and I believe that if you really are up there, it must have a very hard consequence. And in relation to those examples of one faith and the other faith and so on, I can be nervous that it waters it down and that it is actually some of the things that made it difficult for the then bourgeois government, with the rapporteur as Minister for Transport, to come up with the solution we have now come up with. But I now choose to hear it positively, that is to say, that we are in favour of the proposal when it comes too, but I would just prefer the slightly more clean product, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110232	Well, if the government comes up with a proposal that means that if sir... Peter Skaarup lends his car to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen and Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen drives crazy driving.I know he could never do that, but let's say he did it anyway; it may be that he was late for a funeral. Peter Skaarup's car, which is a new and relatively expensive car, and sell it and just stop the money in the treasury because of his heart's goodness he borrowed his car to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. I can never do that, and the Liberal Alliance can never vote for it, and when it comes down to it and the Social Democrats have finished playing with their muscles, I do not think that is what is being proposed either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110316	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110318	Yes, that is exactly what we are proposing, and I would say that it very well illustrates who is playing with the muscles here. Of course, what the Liberal Alliance is saying on the surface may sound very lenient, but I think that exactly that attitude is one of the reasons why it has taken so many years to get something done about this. What the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur also says is that, if you have not been punished before, it has, of course, a milder consequence than if you have had a penalty and so on. etc. The whole challenge here is all sorts of strawmen and good explanations. Now it's time we did something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110355	It is interesting that when I said that I do not think that is what the government is proposing, the Minister for Justice nodded as if that is not what the government is proposing while Mr. Jeppe Bruus says that's exactly what we're proposing. So I think the government needs to find its legs to stand on. And the fact that Mr. Jeppe Bruus is still playing with his muscles while the Minister of Justice is probably finding practical solutions to some challenges that are, does not make me dare to believe in the fact that the government is on the way with madness legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110422	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110426	Thank you. I heard that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned that this proposal to combat insanity drivers was almost crazy, as far as someone driving too fast is concerned, then four years in prison. For once, I'll just have to calm Mr. Cole down. Ole Birk Olesen says that's not what we're proposing. If you read the comments in the proposal, it is of course the case that the Committee on Legal Affairs has asked the Minister for Justice what the level of penalties is for road deaths in connection with driving madness, and there is the level of penalties in the courts between 16 months in prison and 3 years in prison. We had a round of that in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and there was our basic position in the Danish People's Party that it is simply too low. The penalty frame is 8 years. We have repeatedly tightened up these things and signaled to the courts: try to concentrate. You have not listened to the signals that have been received in the courts, so that is why we are saying that we must now have a minimum sentence of four years in prison for road deaths.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110540	I apologize to Mr. Peter Skaarup or indeed I do not, because paragraph 1 of the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party states that the government should be required to introduce 4 years of unconditional imprisonment for driving madness. It doesn't say that it's in case of manslaughter or in case of traffic killing. Four years of unconditional imprisonment for driving madness: that's what it says.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110603	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110606	Now I have the proposal here, B 141. That is what we are dealing with now. It says: "The driving of madness is punishable by a minimum of 4 years of unconditional imprisonment and, in addition, possibly community service, if the driving of madness has been committed negligently by manslaughter. So that's the context. And that is based directly on the answer given to us in the Committee on Legal Affairs, because I think it is simply too bad that we should only give these 16 months of imprisonment in some cases and up to three years in the cases we have examined. After all, we have asked the Minister for Justice to examine the cases and the level of punishment is simply too low in these cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110644	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110647	Then it may be that the Danish People's Party has formulated itself a little too vaguely here, because I understand that you will have 4 years of unconditional imprisonment for driving madness and then possibly some supplement if there are also killings. That's how I read that sentence, and I don't really think I can read it any other way. That is why I have assumed that the proposal should be understood in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110708	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515110728	Thank you to the Folketing for an interesting discussion of this proposal. After all, the Danish People's Party has wanted us to punish the driving of madness much harder; that we confiscate the car and remove the person behind the driving of madness from the street immediately. There we come around various initiatives in this bouquet in the motion for a resolution, and I have heard a lot of people in the Folketing agree that something needs to be done and also agree with some of the things that lie in the proposal. It is really a pressure ball; that is the way we have to take it, and the government must choose to take it as well. Because we saw the traffic killing on the police officer in July 2019, and now we are here in May 2020, and even though the government has said that something has to happen, and even though the parties of the Danish Parliament have said with their beaks that something has to happen, the fact is that no legislative changes have been made since July 2019, despite the fact that police officers working on these cases are riding motorcycles, saying: "Configure the car; make an immediate judgment to remove them from the street; do something in relation to the driving licences that those driving these cars do not have, etc. etc. That is why this is an attempt to get the government to speak, and we hope that it will all result in the fact that, as the Minister of Justice also referred to a conciliation we had yesterday, there will be various legislative proposals in different ministries. We must wait with excitement to see what then lies in them, but we certainly hope that something will happen now. The word'madness carism' actually says itself: that it is madness to drive wildly and violently, where there are families on the roads that have to look after their children and take care of themselves. So I think that Danish families are sick and tired of us having these crazy drivers racing a highway or driving wildly and violently inside a city centre, for example. in Copenhagen or in Aarhus, where there are weak drivers, pedestrians, cyclists who get stuck. You have to say that if you look around, it is the case that insanity carism exists everywhere and has different characters. Some are more absurd than others. Crazy car, driving fast in your own car one Sunday night on a perfect man-made highway to show friends how fast your car can drive, yes, it's also crazy, but it's rarely dangerous; it may only be dangerous for you and difficult to contain for the authorities. But insane driving, driving through a city at high speed, facing red and in opposite lanes in the middle of rush hour, is much more crazy, and there are often innocent lives at stake here. Here it's not just about showing off to friends, here it's about manifesting to the rest of society and showing: Your rules don't apply here, because we don't care what you do and don't care what sanctions you're trying to hit us with. We simply have to put an end to this attitude, and that is why the Danish People's Party has drafted this resolution we are debating today. With the crazy drivers where it's gang related, you could say that it's such a low-hanging fruit that it's easy to pick. So let's do it. Let's put a stop to these deadly young men who disregard every sense of reason and respect for the lives and ability of others. Therefore, this resolution is one of many proposals on how we can make the lives of the gang members we know in Danish society miserable. And it is also about and leads to the fact that if you are not a Danish citizen, you simply should not be allowed to continue to be in Denmark; then you must be expelled if you stand for insanity carism that goes beyond the ability of other people. Because the gangs must feel that society does not accept them and that we are doing everything in our power to put a brake on their activities. They simply have to stamp properly into society rather than live on the other side and commit their abhorrent crime. And here crazy driving in big, expensive muscle cars is a clear manifestation and, in reality, an arm-laying with society, and if they don't want to change their way of life, then they must feel society's opposition to them. The gangs need to be cut. The cars must be taken from them, and a gang member on a bike or line 5 on a bus does not have exactly the same expression as a bunch of criminal Arab boys in a leased Mercedes-AMG to over 1 million. kr., even if you are on cash benefits. And if you make yourself impossible and can't do anything but drive around these expensive cars funded by stumped criminal activities, then society's response must be that we take the car away from them and sign off with a prison cell immediately. I have to say that when we deal with such a proposal as this, we are very concerned about finding a way to ensure that we do not just remove the car. I agree that the government may have found a model now we need to see the proposal that ensures that it can be done. But not least, we also need to remove those people from the street, because we all know that if you are a gang member, well, it all means that you don't care about the community and the police you have after you and that you are going to manage things yourself. And that means finding a new car and a new car and again a new car and, as Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt said, making all sorts of bad excuses, even if you do not have a driving licence, that it is a car you have stolen. And then we're straight on. Therefore, it is also with this proposal that the Danish People's Party says that we must introduce some immediate rulings. And it is not decisive for us in connection with the immediate judgments that the premise is that one has declared oneself guilty, because then we will get nowhere. Let me just remind you of what I said before: for many, gang members are completely indifferent and use it as a manifestation to the authorities because they are at war or in battle with the authorities. That's why they don't care if you get rid of the car. You drive on in another car, and you have enough money, by the way, because you have a very lucrative business in selling drugs and weed to people who want to get hold of it. That is why we should just bear in mind that when we talk about carnage, we are very much targeting our activities against people who do not care about the rules of society, and that is why immediately judgment is necessary or the shade that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen referred to this, namely a detention facility no matter what and not based on the fact that we are raising the sentences a little, because it will not in itself trigger detention in very many cases. It may well be that the Minister can point to some individual cases where one is facing a very, very high penalty and we can therefore be held in custody, but the rule will usually be in relation to purely insanity motorism, without there being any killing involved that one will be free from incarceration. That is why we need to get to something like this. The Left mentioned in the debate here: detention if you are a driver of madness. And that is why we also need to reinforce the proposal that I hear from the government at least. Because I did not hear the Socialists say that they wanted to make immediate judgments or tighten up further in terms of detention. So it's a clear call to the government to take a look at this. To conclude, the final argument for doing something here is that we are responsible for the actors around this circus of scams that these gang boys we're talking about are using to drive around the streets and try to manifest their power by driving crazy in so-called muscle cars, because that's what we're doing by removing the cars. That is why we need to take the bull by the horns and ensure that the cars are actually removed and that we do not make all sorts of excuses and cat hatches that allow a fine lawyer to find out anyway. And that is why I have great expectations on that very point of the government's proposal. I would like to conclude by saying that the Danish People's Party has no fine feelings about what you can do to stop this madness. It just needs to be stopped, and it is about the removal of these cars, and the people it is about, going to jail, so they understand that we want something to do with them, and that is that they should not be allowed to decide. They should not be allowed to manifest. It's society that has to manifest if anyone has to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515111704	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515111710	Thank you. I was, in fact, pleased with the conclusion here that there are no fine sensations and that you are ready. In this way, we will probably also have a good discussion and support for the legislative proposals that are coming. I think it might be to the smart side to say that nothing has happened and that there is a need for a pressure ball and to ask where the government is. For there have been four years with the Danish People's Party as the largest bourgeois party, but with what we heard from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, I understand that it was difficult. For Mr. Ole Birk Olesen had hardly read the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party and misunderstood, I think, what you said, etc. etc. If it were like the attitude of the then government, there would probably have been a need for an even stronger pressure ball on the part of the Danish People's Party. You had enough time, and there were also plenty of reports from the Danish People's Party. Now we have a government that is putting forward a legislative package which actually goes much further than what was in the government at that time. Then we have been in a corona crisis which, unfortunately, has caused it to be pushed a little, and then I think it might be to the smart side to say that there is a need for a pressure ball.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515111813	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515111815	You can always have an opinion about that. I have a different opinion, and it's that when I look at this very violent incident in the summer of 2019 and now it's soon the summer of 2020 I'm just looking at what's happening on the government side in this case, where we all agreed that something should happen. All the legal rapporteurs agreed that something had to happen now. Yes, it happened that the government asked some police circles and that some answers came in, and then there was a play in January 2020, I think it was. Then it is true that there is a corona crisis, but we just have to bear in mind that we are still dealing with legislative proposals in here, too, new government legislative proposals and also motions for resolutions in this period, regardless of the corona crisis. If the government waits and that is what it wants to do in October with proposals, then we can at best hope that legislation may be adopted with effect from 1 January 2021. And then it has been a year and a half since we all agreed that something had to happen. That's not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515111923	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515111928	That's not exactly a storyteller. After all, it is not the case that driving madness was only something that dawned on us last summer with the tragic incident on Langebro, and that before it was nothing that was in the radar at all. That's not true. The truth is that the government at that time was working on this and trying to find models. It is, of course, a discussion that has been going on over the years. I can go back to 2011 and find press releases from the Danish People's Party on this issue. So it's nothing new. I therefore fully share the enthusiasm for something to happen, and the frustration that nothing has happened in the past, but it is perhaps a little false history writing to say that it was only last summer that began to focus on this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112002	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112007	It was certainly not only last summer that began to focus on it. There's been a lot of focus on it. I have mentioned this in some of my brief remarks, for example in relation to penalties. We have been trying to get some tangible penalties in this area for years, even under the previous government, in which the Danish People's Party was not part of, we should remember. After all, various ministers from the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance were sitting in these areas. However, we have been pucking it for many years, and I think the Socialists have done so too. At least I remember it that way. So that's why it's not a matter of history writing. We can discuss whether it is right or not. No, it's about something happening now and nothing has happened yet. And something has to happen now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112039	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112102	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112110	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution. Let me begin by saying that I do have a great deal of sympathy for the intentions of the proposal. I think most people can understand, it can be a very traumatic experience to lose a parent by a crime, and that is true no matter how old you are. The proposers propose that it be possible for all children, regardless of their age and place of residence, who lose a parent as a result of a criminal offence, to receive compensation. As is the case today, there is the possibility, in special cases, of granting survivors compensation for the suffering or violation resulting from the death of a relative. The survivor's allowance shall be limited to cases where the death occurred in such qualifying circumstances as to constitute an emotional burden or violation of the survivors. So it is not an injury that can be measured in kroner and ear. A perpetrator, for example. In other words, if a person commits a murder, he may be required to pay compensation to the surviving person, who was particularly close to the deceased. Compensation presupposes that the perpetrator has had the intention to kill, i.e. have intended to kill or that the perpetrator has committed murder through gross negligence. It is also a condition that there was a special connection between the surviving person and the deceased. This will be the case, as a general rule, in the case of minors or children living at home, spouses or cohabitants or parents of minors. However, it is not excluded that others too, for example. an adult resident child will be entitled to an allowance. In the end, this assessment will be up to the courts, but the starting point is that much is needed in order to obtain an allowance for adult children who have left home. What matters is whether the adult child has maintained a particularly close relationship with the parent. It will also be important if the child has recently left home. In assessing whether compensation should be paid, emphasis is placed on the nature of the crime and whether the survivor has experienced a particular emotional strain as a result of the death. This would typically be the case if the perpetrator killed the parent intentionally. If the murder has not been committed intentionally but grossly negligently, it will in practice be committed, among other things. whether death has occurred in a particularly brutal or offensive manner and whether the bereaved person was present at the time of the murder. That assessment applies regardless of whether we are talking about minors or adult children. As the rules are today, it will therefore be possible, under certain circumstances, for older children living outside the home to receive an allowance, but in practice a great deal needs to be done before the courts arrive at such a special relationship between the deceased and the adult child that there is a basis for granting compensation. The grief of the loss of a parent and the pain associated with the loss when the parent has been killed can be just as great, even if the child is grown up and no longer lives with his parents. I would therefore like to look at whether the rules can be changed so that we can extend access to compensation in such cases. What we need to be aware of is, of course, that if we extend access to compensation for one group of people, there are other groups of people who, in the same rush, have to ask whether they should also be included. What about e.g. parents whose adult children, e.g. daughter, get killed? Most people may think that losing a child is typically more traumatic than losing a parent, because as a parent you expect and want your children to survive you. And what about grandchildren who have a special close relationship with the killed • or siblings? This is something that, of course, should be examined and considered if you start looking at the rules here. With the proposal, the proposers require the government to take the necessary initiatives, which implies the submission of a legislative proposal in this session. A legislative proposal such as what we are talking about here will require thorough consideration and will have to be submitted to the usual consultation so that we get all the way around and ensure the quality of the legislation. We cannot achieve this in this Assembly. At the same time, there will be economic consequences of the proposal and, of course, it will also have to be carried out in more detail. For these reasons, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, but, as I said, I will look at a change of law in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112631	We thank the Minister for Justice. There are no brief comments. That is why we can move on to the negotiations, and first, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112649	Thank you. And thank you to the Conservatives for a good resolution which highlights a very important issue and something on which, fortunately, there are not many cases, but after all so many cases, it affects a number of people and, above all, affects all of us as well. That is why I am quite happy with the statement by the Minister for Justice not only to take a positive view of the proposal here, but also, in fact, to look at whether there should be more groups involved than is actually envisaged in this motion for a resolution. And I think that is very, very sensible for us to take the time to look at, and then I also hope that together in the Committee on Legal Affairs we can land this in a way that I actually think we can find each other in, because this is something we are all concerned with. So I would like to thank you for the good initiative and just formally say that we do not, of course, support the motion for a resolution, as it is here, for the reasons described by the Minister of Justice, but with a positive indication that this is an important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112806	A brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112810	Thank you and thank you for the positive treatment of the Social Democrat rapporteur here. It is good that we agree that there is a challenge and there is something we must try to see if we can improve, i.e. whether we can improve the conditions of some people who immediately, I would say, when I look at some of these cases, should have had compensation and should have had a helping hand, although it can never be more than a Band-Aid on the wound. I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Bruus, whether that means that the Social Democrats, although they are not going to vote for the bill right now, will be involved in making a so-called report, in other words a review of the area and an initiative to ensure that something happens in this area as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112900	Now we must be careful that we do not stand here and compete for words in relation to an initiative that ensures something as soon as possible. Well, we just got a very positive statement from the Minister of Justice to actually look at this thoroughly, and we will of course support and lean on it. If we can then land something in the Committee on Legal Affairs that can frame it, it will of course be fine, but it is not the case that I will stand by and promise that we now think that further initiatives or something need to be put on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112931	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Peter Skaarup the word again? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515112936	But it is simply for practical reasons with these proposals: either you just have to do nothing or they have to be adopted, or you have to make a corner kick. And that is actually what I hear the Minister be prepared to do, that is to say, like expressing a few together, hopefully a majority, that you want these things to be looked at. I actually take this as an expression of the desire of the Social Democrats to take part in this, but we will be discussing this in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515113002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515113007	I will continue to take a positive view of the proposers, and then let us certainly discuss whether we can land some wording on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515113014	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515113029	The proposal before us today concerns an amendment to the Civil Liability Act, at least some form of clarification of it. Article 26 (a) of the Law provides today for the possibility of granting a kind of tort allowance, a kind of compensation to children under the age of 18, at least according to case law, if one of the children's parents is murdered or died as a result of gross negligence. It is a compensation for some kind of suffering caused by the death of someone close to him by special emotional stresses. Today's practice is such that if a child is not a resident and under 18 years old it is at least the general rule that there is not real money to pay out. If these conditions are met, there will be an amount of about DKK 100,000. to the child concerned. The question then arises as to whether these two conditions, at least in the caselaw of the Court of Justice, namely the resident and 18 years of age, should be relaxed. And there I can say from the Left that we welcome the proposal to have an amendment formulated so that all children can be taken into account. We are not blind to the fact that extending the circle can cause some problems, as the Minister for Justice also mentioned. We're expanding one group of people. This may indicate that there should also be an extension to another. In addition, there is, of course, a technical problem, as the Social Democrat rapporteur or the Minister also pointed out, namely that we want these initiatives to be taken before the end of this parliamentary year. Summa summarum, the Left is positive about the proposal. We propose that we make a report in which we clarify these considerations. But all respect for the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party's motion here. The Left can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515113234	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515113251	Thank you for the floor. It is awful to lose a member of the family.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is sad when it happens for natural reasons, but it is disgusting when it happens with a criminal offense that someone else has deliberately committed, because it is the ultimate criminal offense when one person's act inflicts death on another human being. It can't patch up the whole; no compensation can fix the grief it is, to be exposed to it. The loss of a family member is irreplaceable. As a child, parents are the greatest role models. They're the ones you learn from and mirror yourself in. As a child, if you lose a parent, you lose a friend and a role model. And so do you if you lose your big brother or little sister, and I couldn't think of anything worse than if someone hurt my little brother. Today, if you are under the age of 18 and you are resident at home, you can receive compensation if a criminal offence inflicts the death and circumstances of a parent. To extend it to children who have left home and who are over 18 years of age and who often have the opportunity to support themselves and thus have to receive such compensation, I understand and have great sympathy for, and when the government proposes that this can also be seen from a broader perspective, this is an approach that we agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515113457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515113517	In Denmark, about 50 killings are committed every year... and it swings a little bit up and down sometimes. But taking someone else's life isn't just about the life being taken, which is bad enough in itself. It's also about the next of kin. It is about those who must experience the great consequences of one of their loved ones being brutally pulled out of their lives. It brings pain, it brings sorrow, and it brings anger. These are fates that break when their lives suddenly change. Of course, we have a legal system designed to ensure a form of justice with a punishment for the perpetrator, although that is often not what relieves the loss. And, of course, there must be a punishment, but it must also fall quickly, because the relatives of the victims often need to have a stop in their lives in order to be able to put it behind them. Today, it can be a little difficult. It may be slow procedure, it may be investigation, and sometimes the investigation is also very complex, and it may be cancellations and absences from the court, which may be some of the things that can make it difficult to put a sentence and the cases are dragged on. That is also why I have great hopes that the negotiations on the police economy can address some of the challenges that lie here. This must be an important priority so that we can help the victims to have a quick end. Another part of this experience of justice is about compensation or compensation. Even if money cannot make up for what has happened, it can be seen as a recognition that this has happened and that the perpetrator takes it upon himself. And, of course, it seems unreasonable that children who no longer live at home and who have grown up should not be recognised here. I think we should be satisfied that the Minister for Justice has today stood in the Chair and said that we should look at it in a broader context, so that we can ensure that all the groups affected by this can be accommodated to some extent. So I think it is very good that it is now being examined and I look forward to there being an initiative in this area as well. We support that study and we are also looking forward to the outcome. It can become a small Band-Aid even though a very small Band-Aid on a huge loss. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515113752	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515113802	Thank you. After all, these are a little strange times that we are living in, for now I am standing here for the second time and must commend the Danish People's Party for highlighting a very important issue and, of course, also Conservatives who have also helped to table this motion for a resolution. I think this is a very important issue which is raised here, because the loss of a family member is irreplaceable and heartbreaking, no matter how old you are, and that is why I think that what the Danish People's Party is travelling here is really important. But I really think that leaves out a discussion about where the border is. For what about siblings, that is, if you lose a brother or sister? What if you are a parent who loses an adult child, as the Minister of Justice also mentioned? So I think this motion for a resolution omits a discussion on where the limit goes: is this the right place to say that the limit for compensation goes or should it really go further? For, as Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has said, fortunately, there will be less killings a year in Denmark, but the people who are being committed are serious and there will be a conviction, but also compensation. However, I think that this resolution leaves a discussion on where the limit should go. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice will be conducting an investigation into this and would like to be involved in discussing it, and for us in the Enhedslisten it does not matter whether we are discussing it in a report in committee or whether we are discussing it on the basis of a presentation from the Ministry of Justice. So if you want to make a joint report on this, we in the Enhedslist can very well see ourselves in it and, as I said, would very much like to discuss where the borders should go. So for us it does not matter whether it is a proposal from the government or a proposal that comes in a report in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and that is why we are actually looking forward to further consideration by the committee. So thank you to the Danish People's Party and also to Conservatives for focusing on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515114009	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515114021	Thank you. When, as politicians, we see citizens fighting against a system and when, as politicians, we see that a law is inappropriate or even directly unfair, it is our duty to respond not only because inappropriate or unfair legislation weakens people's confidence in the system, but also because it is real people who are affected by the legislation. I welcome the positive reception that has been given by several sides, including the Minister, in relation to the Danish People's Party and our motion for a resolution. We have tabled this resolution because, according to today's rules, only survivors who were particularly close to the deceased can receive compensation under Article 26a of the Civil Liability Act. A close relative shall mean a spouse, partner and minor child. Other children and parents can be close relatives if they lived with the deceased at the time of the crime. However, the purpose of the compensation is not only to provide financial compensation; it is in particular a compensation for the psychological pain and strain of the relatives when you lose someone you have been very close to, especially by murder or killing. The psychic pain a child will experience when it tragically loses a parent does not become less if you are over 18 years of age and, for example, have not been resident at the time of the crime. That is why we should also correct the legislation as it is today. It is my view and the view of the Conservative People's Party that adult children suffer serious torment and suffering to the same extent as minors and children living at home when they are unjustly losing a parent. It is therefore our hope that as soon as possible after the investigation which the Minister of Justice intends to set in motion, we will be able to extend the circle of people who have the possibility of living as a survivor, so that we also recognise that, for example, an adult and resident child may experience as much mental pain as a resident child. We recognise that there are some challenges in terms of demarcation, but we are very pleased with the positive reception given to the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515114307	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens. Welcome to Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515114321	Thank you. In the new citizens we find this resolution both sympathetic and reasonable. Children who lose parents in such a tragic way that the parents are taken by days are killed, must of course receive reasonable compensation for the pain and pain they are going through. We also know that there are challenges and, as the Minister said earlier, where is the limit? I do not think it should stop us from sending out the clear signal, if only to the perpetrators, that this is a burden, not only the life you take, but also for the survivors, the people who are left with the suffering that has been caused. That is why New Citizens are backing the resolution and we are also willing to see whether, if possible, we should go further so that parents who lose children in the same way can obtain compensation or compensation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515114433	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515114446	Thank you for the floor. We support the resolution. Many good things have already been said in the platform, which I agree with. It is clear that the arguments which justify a replacement for children living at home do not lapse simply because children do not live at home or reach a certain age, so the equality that is envisaged here seems to us to be a good idea. If there is a mood in the Folketing to fine-tune the proposal a little more and look exactly at what kind of person you have to define within, then we also think it sounds like a sensible idea. But we must continue to work on the proposal. In any case, we support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515114541	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. This gives the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Peter Skaarup, from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515114600	I would like to thank you for the debate on our proposal here, B 146, which Mr. Naser Khader from Conservatives and myself and the Danish People's Party have worked together with our good lawyers in the committee department in the Danish Parliament to put a different line than is the case today in terms of compensation. I think it is a good thing that there is sympathy, from the Minister as well, in relation to the proposal. Perhaps you could even find a way to broaden it even further. So I did not really see any parties speaking against doing anything in this area. I would like to take this opportunity to say that this is, of course, an end to the trial currently being conducted before the courts against the 28-year-old James Schmidt, also known as Lual Lual, with Somali background. He is accused of killing three pensioners at Østerbro in Copenhagen. It's an extremely serious and blunt crime. One of the pensioners was Inez Hasselblad, who was killed by the person concerned apparently. That's what this trial is all about. I have spoken to her adult daughter, Malene Hasselblad, who was very close to her mother, and she is going through a grief that cannot be compared to the sadness that we all have in many other small contexts over small things. This is a terrible grief she is experiencing, because she has lost her mother, to whom she was closely attached. When people are robbed of a very close relative of a crime, i.e. a deliberate killing, it is a completely different pain, a trauma, and in many cases a very serious deterioration in the quality of life of the survivors. After all, financial compensation will not bring Inez Hasselblad or anyone else back to the very nearest, but it will be a symbolic patch on a wound that will probably never completely heal and, above all, on the part of society, it will show recognition that the survivors have been subjected to an injustice and a particular emotional burden for which we, as a community, assume responsibility. After all, we will do so once we have taken over the obligation of punishing for crime. Then society takes over the task, and that is also the case when it comes to compensation issues. The grief you experience as an adult child when you are suddenly robbed of a very close family member is not necessarily less than if you were a minor, nor is it necessarily crucial whether you are a resident or not, and that is really the crux of the matter in relation to this resolution. With the resolution, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party want to equate adult children with minors when assessing whether compensation for this particular emotional strain is to be paid. We hope that this will be adopted in some form here in the Folketing in cooperation between the parties of the Folketing. Whether it will be in a slightly different way in a wider group is fine with us but the starting point is that we have to get this proposal adopted. We will take the initiative for a discussion in the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, whether we can, in the first place, produce a report that tells us a little about the intentions we have, and then hopefully in the new Parliamentary Assembly here in October 2020 we can get a bill from the government that will ensure that something happens in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515115019	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, who spoke on behalf of the proposers. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur, and since no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515115051	The debate is open and I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Health and the elderly in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515115119	The motion for a resolution which we are about to discuss is about an extended requirement for recruitment procedures for staff in the care and care sectors. In practical terms, the proposal is that recruitment in the care and care sectors should obtain a public criminal record in order to prevent, among other things, the use of drugs. violence and theft against those who rely on help from others. I can only support the proposal, which is to ensure that citizens who depend on the help of others in their everyday lives can be quite safe from the staff who come with them. In fact, I think we can all back that up. However, I do not believe that this is best ensured by requiring public criminal records to be obtained in connection with all employment in the care and care sector. Instead, the focus must be on a responsible and thorough recruitment procedure, which can serve as a basis for the assessment of the person you want to hire. According to the applicable rules, since July 2019 it has been possible to obtain public criminal records in the desired situations. The concrete recruitment procedures are thus supported by this possibility, where necessary. It is important to stress that criminal records are a supplement to the recruitment procedure and cannot stand alone, as they are snapshots and thus do not provide a guarantee of how a person will behave in the future. So I also think it appropriate to wait for the experience of the adopted draft law on obtaining criminal records in the recruitment of staff in the specialized social sector before imposing additional bureaucracy and additional costs on the care and care sector. It is the Government's immediate assessment that there is a relatively limited number of cases involving, inter alia: enrichment crime and violence in the care and care sector. It is the government's opinion that the introduction of the requirement to obtain public criminal records in the care and care sectors is disproportionate to the importance of criminal records, in order to protect citizens against criminal acts committed by staff, since criminal records only contain the facts for which a person is convicted. After all, it provides only a limited insight into the person who has applied for the position. And as mentioned earlier, criminal records are snapshots and are therefore no guarantee that the person has not committed a criminal offence in the past or that the person will not commit a criminal offence in the future. So there must be a balance, which does not exclude everyone with a stained record from employment, but at the same time provides for the possibility of obtaining a public criminal record when it is considered relevant and necessary. The important thing is therefore the implementation of a responsible and thorough recruitment procedure, which places emphasis on the interview and on the opinions and references of former employers, so that you have the opportunity to get an impression of the person you want to hire, and, in cases where this is considered relevant and necessary, since July 2019 the municipalities have had the opportunity to obtain a public criminal record. So instead of setting key requirements, which can be seen as an expression of distrust of employees in the care of the elderly, focus should be placed on the responsible and thorough recruitment procedure, which allows for the assessment of the person whom you want to hire, thereby identifying whether it is someone who can be employed in the desired position. In addition, continuous attention from management must be ensured in relation to e.g. This is a change in the behaviour of the citizen or of the staff, to which we can respond. I believe that the measures mentioned will be of greater importance in terms of protecting older people from enriching crimes by nursing staff than a requirement to obtain criminal records. It is also my clear belief that both the management and the staff in the care and care sectors are dedicated and are doing a great deal of work to give the elderly a high quality help and to ensure their safety. So instead of introducing a bureaucratic requirement which can be seen as an expression of a general distrust of employees in the care of the elderly, we should focus on the fact that it is the right tools and resources that are present in the care and care sector. In relation to the economic aspect of the proposal, the proposers have estimated that it will cost just over 3 million. kr. for the public sector, and that the proposal can be financed by agreement on the mobilisation of the reserve for social, health and labour market measures from 2020 to 2023, i.e. the previous rate pool. I agree that it is to be expected to be associated with additional costs, among others. the individual municipalities to e.g. the procedure for obtaining and assessing criminal records in relation to all employment in the care and care sector. In addition, the proposal is expected to involve additional costs to the police. However, it is difficult to calculate the actual additional costs, but in any case, this will be legislation which requires the provision of permanent new funds, and not just funds from 2020 to 2023. So in order to round off: it is already possible under the applicable rules to obtain a public criminal record when deemed necessary. A demand for the collection of public criminal records is assessed in an unproporatory manner and the proposal presupposes the provision of permanent new funds for the expected additional costs. In the light of the above, the Government cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515115718	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515115725	Thank you. Well, I think it was incredibly sad to hear a Minister for Health and the Elderly who does not think that there should be the same control over care workers for the elderly as there is, for example. is with staff working with children. Today, we have the children's certificate and it works well, and I am very incomprehensible that the Minister for Health does not think this is a very good proposal. Yesterday it came to Ritzau that a home care provider had cheated on access to the accounts of several older citizens and is now in custody and not enough, according to the charge, the woman has previously been deprived of the right to work with older people at all, but she continues to do so because she is employed in some different temporary employment agencies. The Minister does not want to put an end to this, so we do not want to make it a requirement to obtain public criminal records. Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515115833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515115838	Well, that's what my speech was about, that's why. However, with regard to the specific case, some reservations have to be made, because I do not know the specific case. I have only read the press to which the rapporteur refers, and if it is the case, as the press says, I can only distance myself from it. I believe that at this stage it is far too early to conclude that such a case would be caught if this bill were adopted at all. But there is no doubt that in the recruitment procedure, and this was my main point in my speech and in the work done there, one must be thorough, and one can of course, regardless of which employer in home care one is, obtain this information, if it is considered relevant, as well as I consider that it is always appropriate to obtain information from former employers. And if this had been done in this particular case, it would have been possible, as the press has shown, to obtain that information.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515115939	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515115943	Then I just have to say that our Minister for Health and the Elderly does not want there to be the same prevention element, that is, the same protection for our older fellow citizens as we have in relation to child certificates. The Minister for Health and the Elderly does not want this, and the Minister will not support the demand for public criminal records. The Minister for Health and the Elderly said in his speech that it was about a limited number of cases; we really do not know anything about that in relation to those cases. I can only note that there have been several cases in the press over several years..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120023	And every case is unhappy. This is also why we need to be better at providing tools and giving space and economics for the necessary and thorough interviewing of employees, and for the use, both as a public and as a private employer, of obtaining the necessary information in the recruitment of employees. We have these opportunities, and if we do not make use of them yet, we must, of course, make use of them if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120100	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. The next speaker is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mrs Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120128	Thank you for the floor. In Denmark we have a public sector which we can rightly be quite proud of. Not least, we have a municipal older sector with thousands of dedicated employees and managers who day in and day out ensure the care and presence of thousands of older citizens. The Corona crisis has, on something, shown us all that this particular sector is made up of committed employees who are doing their best to provide the best welfare for our oldest fellow citizens. In Denmark we also have a very fine contract with each other that we here at Christiansborg ensure the right legislation, and that in this case, when it comes to care for the elderly, the municipalities fill out the framework. Of course, hiring staff in the municipal care of the elderly is a municipal task, and in the municipalities you make an effort to recruit the right staff, and you have the task of ensuring clear guidelines for the daily work of the employees, including the work that means you are entrusted with entering the private homes of older people. The proposal, which the Danish People's Party has put forward here, seeks to require municipalities to obtain criminal records when they are employed in the care of the elderly. I think it goes without saying that everyone in this Chamber can see the sense that it is right and proper that we should be able to obtain a criminal record when hiring staff to enter the private homes of the citizens, not least citizens who are exposed because of, for example, the situation. dementia or age impairment. And as an employer, you find that an applicant has been punished in the past for example. You can take precautions if you want to be enriched. Precisely because this issue has been debated before, among other things. Helped by the Danish People's Party, it has actually been possible since 7 July 2019 for the municipalities to obtain public criminal records. So dear Danish People's Party, I think this is actually a matter of heart for all of us. However, I would understand this proposal if it had been put forward, on the basis that the provisions of 7 July 2019 had not worked, but I note that the examples from which the Danish People's Party makes its proposals are in fact examples to which everyone goes back before 7 July 2019, so it is people who have been employed before 7 July 2019, i.e. before the Folketing decided to allow municipalities to obtain public criminal records. So, although it may seem extremely attractive to say to the municipalities that they have to obtain criminal records, I would strongly request that we bring into force the new provisions, which are barely three quarters of a year old, and see the effect thereof. It is my clear conviction that there is a great deal of attention in the municipalities, because it is a great responsibility to be an employer, but the closer the decisions come to the people who have to do the work, the more ownership you get of the decisions that have to be made. When a municipality decides to obtain public criminal records, there are naturally also a number of internal considerations about how to deal with these criminal records. These internal considerations and reflections will simply increase awareness of the responsibilities of the employment situation and the time thereafter. It is simply a matter of good leadership. So even if we here at Christiansborg want to make important decisions, we must also remember that the closer decisions are made on them, the more relevant it is for them to carry them out. This means that the responsibility for hiring staff, including the decision to obtain a criminal record, must of course lie with the individual municipality. I am very confident that the municipalities, which have the day-to-day responsibility, are extremely aware of this situation. This must give rise to management guidelines and expectations for the employees, and all local authorities and day-to-day management will of course have the aim of preventing theft and of ensuring that staff do not have undesirable behaviour towards citizens. Should it now turn out, contrary to expectations, that the July 2019 regulations do not help the municipalities, then perhaps the matter is different. Of course, in the social democracy, we do not want to ignore real warnings. So what is needed right now is to make the latest rules, which, as I said, are barely three quarters of a year old, work as intended. Whether it is because of the latest rules, we do not know, but a note from the Ministry of Justice actually shows that since the rule came into force in 2019 there has been an increase of 3%. in the collection of public criminal records in general. So we may have a presumption that we do not know, but we may have a presumption that it has helped local authorities practice. Then I would like to point out that in the wake of the 2019 stake pool agreement, for example. will be a duty from this year to obtain a criminal record before hiring staff, temporary workers and managers on concrete social housing offers. Let us then follow developments in that area and see how it is going to go there. So in the Social Democratic Party we cannot support the proposal, but we want someone here in the Danish Parliament to cooperate broadly in this very important area, and we look forward to the discussions in the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120624	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120627	The changes that have been made here are, after all, some that the Danish People's Party has fought for, because this is not a new case for the Danish People's Party. Nor is it a new matter that the Elders case wanted there to be the same control of care workers for the elderly as there are of staff working with children, and that, therefore, there is, like equality in this area. It's about preventing, it's not about creating mistrust. I am sure that everyone in here also has confidence in the educators who work in our 24-hour institutions and other staff groups. But then just to understand. So the Socialist rapporteur does not want the same thing to be created, we can say, prevention and protection for the elderly that we have with children today. Doesn't Social Democracy want that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120719	Thank you to Karina Adsbøl for the question. I'm sure the municipalities take this very seriously and will take this responsibility. It's basically about the fact that it's the municipalities that are doing this very important job, it's hiring staff. Of course, citizens must be protected. We also know that even if we obtain criminal records, it is not a security in itself at all. This requires good management, close-to-management and clear guidelines, and it is the municipalities that are the guarantor of that part of the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120752	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120753	It's not about good management specifically, because a good manager can't tell if the one you've hired is emptying the older one's account. It can be hard for the leader to see. That's why it's all about prevention, making this a requirement, that is that it's not a "can" clause. We have just adopted legislation in the social field, in which we have made it a requirement all the places that are subject to social supervision, that is to say on the offers, precisely because the Danish People's Party wanted this, but that is not what we want in the care and care sector, because that is where we will wait. That's totally weird. What is the reason why we want to be involved in this in the housing services we concluded an agreement between the pool parties, and it has now been implemented but that we do not want to be in the care and care sector in the home care sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120843	Thank you. Well, I hope that Mrs Karina Adsbøl will not hear that we are not interested in looking at this area, on the contrary. But now there is a new provision that has come into force almost three quarters of a year ago, and I think it is right to all parties, including the municipalities, that they now have the opportunity to try out the new practice. And then we'll see how it's gonna work out. As things stand at the moment, the municipalities seem to be increasingly taking advantage of the new opportunity for practice, and I am very confident that the municipalities can manage this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120914	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515120923	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising an extremely important and relevant issue in the Assembly Hall: how to create security for our elderly people around the care and care staff who have access to the elderly's home. I wonder if most of us, through the press, have learned about the horrible stories about how some sosu assistants have succeeded in committing criminal acts to the people they were employed to look after. One has abused credit cards, another has abused banking information, a third has committed violence, and a fourth has stolen cash • all crimes committed by a person, a sosu assistant, who should look after and care for an elderly citizen. This is no good, and such actions must be severely punished. And it is deeply, deeply worrying that such cases occur at all. One trusts to let a caregiver into one's home and then then to be subjected to violence or robbery or otherwise abused, and we cannot and must not let that go unnoticed. Fortunately, it is far from happening every day, and it is important for me to stress that some stumbled vessels should not destroy the good reputation and reputation of sosu assistants. We must not be guided by mistrust or a pointy finger, because the vast majority of employees in the care and care sector are doing a fantastic job and contribute positively to the everyday life of our elderly. Thank you very much for your important work. Let me stress that we in the Left even have a great deal of sympathy for the consideration and reflection behind the proposal. It is important for us in the Left to cherish our older ones and ensure them the security that the right ones deserved it just lacked. Therefore, the responsibility for ensuring a thorough recruitment process rests with the individual municipality; and why not routinely contact former employers? Just to give you an example. And it really surprises me that the municipalities do not, of their own motion, ask for a clean criminal record every time they have to be employed in the care of the elderly. For last year, the announcement was amended, so that both municipalities and regions can now obtain criminal records when, for example, there is a problem. must be employed in the care of the elderly. We know that since the change in the notice there has actually been an increase in the number of criminal records issued. But if these are exactly criminal records for the care and care sectors, we cannot read out the figures. We in the Left would like to delve into that in the work of the committee. However, it is of course important to bear in mind that criminal records do not in themselves protect against crime against our older citizens. Penalty certificates are by their very nature backwards. Criminal records will be able to prevent the recruitment of persons who have committed criminal acts in the past, but do not provide any guarantees as to what the future holds. That is why we must also be careful to see a demand for criminal records as a bulletproof solution. We must be careful not to create false security. Having said that, there is no doubt that obtaining criminal records can be a helpful tool for the municipality during the recruitment processes, and that is also why we in the Left supported a similar scheme for staff in offers covered by the Social Protection Act. On the left side, we look forward to following the new legislation in the social field, which makes it compulsory to obtain criminal records when hiring staff in offers covered by the Social Protection Act. And as time passes, we will have the opportunity not only to follow up but also to follow up on how it works in practice when criminal records are to be obtained. On behalf of the Left, I would like to call, like the Socialists, for us to draw up a joint report, and our proposal, perhaps not like the Socialists, is that we stop the government from acting, for example, when social legislation has worked. One year, we will discuss the experience, and then we will evaluate the legislative proposal called L 86. If the experience is good, we in the Left would like to continue working on the proposals of the Danish People's Party and look at the possibilities of ensuring a legislative legal basis for municipalities to obtain criminal records by new recruitments in the care and care sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515121355	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515121359	Thank you. First of all, this is not about pointing the finger at anyone at all. I myself am a social and health assistant, and I know how this is going on in practice, depending on where you have been employed, what is being caught up and what is not being caught up. However, I am deeply surprised that the Left cannot support this, precisely because we have just done so in relation to our settlement offer. For all the housing offers that are subject to social supervision, there has been a demand for public criminal records to be obtained, including in relation to managers. But when it comes to the care and care sector, home care, the Left will not be involved, because then we will wait for an evaluation of it. I think that's sad. There have been several cases in the press, and it has also been a wish of the organisations, both from the Elders Case and also earlier from the disability organisations, who wanted it to be followed up here, precisely because we have seen some horrible cases. And first of all, it's about stopping the stinging vessels we can stop. So will the Left wait a whole year to look at this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515121504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515121505	I have to say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that it is not possible to conclude from the rapporteur's speech that the Left does not support the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party. What we have proposed by the Left is that we dive into the figures surrounding the criminal records. We can see, as the Social Democrats' rapporteur also said, that more criminal records are actually being obtained so that we dive into what is behind that increase and whether it is in fact the care and care sector that draws more criminal records. And then our proposal was that we should look at the experience gained from the legislative proposal, which we have all supported, in the social field. And it is, in fact, just a proposal from this point of view, and the parties of the Folketing can then choose to join or say no to that. However, I would like to emphasise, as I said in my speech, that we on the Left are very, very positive, and this is a relevant subject which the Danish People's Party is putting on the agenda here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515121612	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515121613	Yeah, I think so, too. After all, this is a subject that we in the Danish People's Party have been working on for many years, about the adult certificates, and there has been a wild debate about it. Then I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees with the Elders' case that there must be the same control of care staff for the elderly as there is for staff working with children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515121640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515121641	Well, what is absolutely crucial for us in the Left is that we get the fence in the best possible way, that there is security about both recruitments, but also new recruitments. And it is in this way, whether it be in the social sphere, in the field of care and care or in the area of children. There has to be security about those appointments, and there can be more ways to go. We are not opposed to the proposal here, but we have some things that we would like to dive into, among other things. What is behind the increase in the number of criminal records drawn or retrieved, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515121721	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515121737	Thank you very much. There is hardly anyone in this Chamber or around the country who does not think that the cases that have been mentioned here are horrible. Making use of one's position either to enrich oneself or to commit violence or other acts of violence is reprehensible and must, of course, have consequences for the employee. There can be no two opinions on this. Of course, as a citizen, we must be able to have confidence that our employees in the care and care sector will take care of the citizens they are employed to care for. Of course. And you can. The cases referred to are, of course, the exceptions which make it quite clear that the vast majority of people are of course being decent. Everyone therefore agrees that we must ensure that our citizens, especially the elderly and the vulnerable, are not exploited and deprived by the people who are set to care for them. We need to trust our employees. But we must also trust them. And I trust our employees around the country. I am confident that when recruitment talks are held, they make an overall assessment, call references, to former employers, and yes, obtain a criminal record if necessary. Because they already have that opportunity out there. And it is certainly an important tool in terms of recruitment, and it is indeed my expectation that it will be used out there more and more now that the opportunity is there. However, a proposal to obtain criminal records for all staff throughout the sector seems somewhat disproportionately to me. It is a reflection on the size of the bureaucracy that you choose to put in the world to solve a problem. And then there is the fact that we are quite soon adopting a law that per year. 1 July makes it a requirement to obtain criminal records for certain categories of staff in the social field. And, as other rapporteurs have said, we can, of course, wait for the experience that comes from it and learn from it. We all agree on the problem. We agree that this is something we need to take care of. The question is how best to do it. That is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands. But of course we have a great deal of sympathy for the problem and we look forward to the further work in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515121956	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122000	Thank you. Yes, we have just agreed in the pool of rates that this should be compulsory on the accommodation offers, including those subject to the five social security supervision. This is a very small part of this area, and that is why it has been followed up by this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, so that we are just equating the areas, so that it will also apply to the care and care sector. That is why it is with deep surprise that I hear that the Radicals cannot support it here, because why do you want to do it on the settlement offers, which are subject to the five social services, but not in the home care of the citizen's own home, despite the fact that there have been several examples of unfortunately things going on, for example. We have also seen unhappy examples where older people have been cheated or exploited in the most serious way. So why can we support what has been agreed, but not this in the care and care sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122106	Thank you for the question. Yes, these are quite awful things that we are all deeply opposed to; there is no doubt about that. The reason is, of course, that we want to learn from the experience that is being done out there. Other measures have already been taken, so it is now possible to obtain criminal records, and we have to see if this has had an effect on the number of cases. There is much we need to learn before we put something completely new into effect, and I do not think it is so strange that we want to learn more before we make new legislation that introduces even more bureaucracy out there and before we see whether it solves the problem we are facing at all. It is, of course, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, a question of proportionality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122139	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122141	As the resolution also says, it is, of course, a snapshot with a criminal record. In fact, it is very detailed in the motion for a resolution that this is also an element of prevention in relation to the matter that was raised yesterday. I do not know whether the rapporteur has noticed it, but it was one who was employed in two temporary employment agencies, where no public criminal record is obtained, so we can continue. But then I want to hear something else from the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur not also think that there is a great deal of darkness in this area, so that some of the issues never come to light, because then you might choose to dismiss the employee, so that the matter does not move forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122224	So there should be cases where the employees of the municipalities have taken advantage of their position and are terminated and thus not punished for what they have done? Is that how I should understand the question? In that case, I find it difficult to imagine that this would be a major problem. After all, this is something that everyone takes very seriously, and I cannot imagine that an employer out there will ignore if an employee has behaved in a way that is punishable, because that knowledge must, of course, move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122252	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Radical Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122302	Thank you for the floor. I shall address our health rapporteur, Kirsten Normann Andersen, who unfortunately cannot be here today. After all, this proposal is about obtaining criminal records on those who work in the care and care sector. In the SF we believe that it is a distrust of the people who stand on the front line every day to care for and care for our elderly, weak and sick. We think that the recruitment procedures currently in the municipalities and regions provide an opportunity to obtain criminal records already, and we find it difficult to see that this proposal is not superfluous. For the SF, it is important that citizens who receive help through the care and care sector can have confidence in the staff who come to their homes, but the obtaining of public criminal records in all employment in the care and care sector may not only be a guarantee of this. Against this background, we cannot support the proposal, but we might say, like the other parties, that if the social experience shows that this would be something that could really work to prevent some of the terrible events we see, we would like to reconsider our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122421	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122425	I have to say that I am deeply astonished that the rapporteur says it is a declaration of distrust. Does the rapporteur also think that it is a distrust of educators and others who work with children that they should hand in a child certificate? Does the rapporteur also believe that the agreement that we have reached broadly politically in relation to the social housing offer, which is subject to the five social security authorities, that right now there is a requirement that they should obtain criminal records from both employees and managers, is also a declaration of distrust? I must say that I am deeply astonished by the rapporteur's choice of words. This is one of the things that we're dealing with here. on a prevention element, that is, in cases where you can see someone repeating what they have done, so even if there have been convictions, you are hired elsewhere because no public criminal record has been obtained. So perhaps the rapporteur would just like to answer whether she also thinks that we are talking about declarations of distrust with regard to educators and others working with children, with regard to the children's certificate and with regard to what we have just agreed on, on the settlement offers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122527	But for good reasons, I do not know the agreements that have been made for housing offers and whether this should be the expression of some kind of compromise. I think you just have to be careful about trusting in criminal records alone when it comes to discovering wrong relationships. I know everything about this from the point of view of legal policy, but perhaps not so much here. If what has been adopted in the social field seems to work, I think that we will then reconsider our position, but let us now get the experience instead of saying that we are now introducing a lot of bureaucracy out there without having a sense of whether that is actually what can remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122615	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122616	Well, I don't think there was any kind of compromise at all, because all the parties agreed. However, the rapporteur does not answer whether it is a declaration of distrust towards staff who have to hand in child certificates and whether it is a declaration of distrust towards the staff of the housing services which are now subject to social supervision, that when you employ staff, they also have to hand in a criminal record.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122637	Well, I think it's a subjugation of their ability to assess when they're gonna collect criminal records. So, yeah, you could say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122646	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515122654	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for having tabled this motion for a resolution to make it compulsory to obtain criminal records in the care and care sector. I would like to start by saying that in the Enhedslisten we fully agree with the intention of the proposal. We fully agree with the premise that when we employ people who are going to work in the citizens' own homes with citizens who are often weakened and dependent on the help we can give them, we also have an obligation to do everything we can to ensure that they are not subjected to an attack. In my view, it is neither distrust nor mistrust when an employer asks for a criminal record from an applicant for a job where you go out to weakened citizens in your own home. On the contrary, this is an expression of responsibility, both to the weakened elderly and to the other employees. This is probably why the vast majority of municipalities already have that practice. I am only familiar with skilled and dedicated staff working in the care and care sector. I have had that when I have worked with them as colleagues; I have experienced that when they have helped in my family; and I have experienced this in particular in the recent period, when there has been enormous flexibility and enthusiasm when, often at great risk, they have been around citizens who may be infected with the corona virus at the risk of being infected themselves. But for most people, the greatest fear has been that they could pass on the infection. It's a responsible and dedicated staff. Unfortunately, however, we have seen a few examples of an employee breaking confidence. It may happen, but it should not be repeated. That is something we can prevent, and we should do what we can to prevent that. That doesn't mean you can't get hired with a stain on the record. You can easily be a skilled and deeply responsible employee, even if you have a stain on the criminal record. It may even be very wise not to let it be an obstacle. However, when we see that there are individual cases in which an employee commits the same offence over and over again, it is probably not exactly the type of employment he should have. There is therefore an employer's responsibility for the elderly who need help and for the benefit of the other colleagues. That is why we fully agree with the intention of the proposal in the Enhedslisten. If we cannot support it immediately anyway in its present form, it is because it seems a little too bastant in the comments. In our view, it is extremely important that a distinction be made between different types of crime when introducing compulsory use of criminal records. For example, I think it is a little violent that offences such as theft and sexual abuse are mentioned in the joint list. I think there is a very big difference between those types of crime, and I think we should be careful with which of them we write in. Because there must be a fair balance between the interests of security and security of the citizens and the opportunity for social rehabilitation that society should give to those who have endured their punishment. On the other hand, I think it would be quite obvious that we call on the KL to ensure that all municipalities obtain criminal records when they are employed in the care and care sector, where they have access to the citizen's own home. The vast majority of municipalities already do this, and we should clearly call for this to be done by all municipalities before we go to legislation. I also think it is sensible to look at the practical operation of the new provision, which provides for the possibility of obtaining public criminal records. However, we fully agree that there is a problem that needs to be resolved and that we must pursue it until it has succeeded. I therefore hope that we can come together in a joint report on the proposal, and I would like to acknowledge the proposal made by Mrs Jane Heitmann of the Left to draw up a joint report in which we can also take into account the experience of the legislation we have made in the area of social security supervision. It also allows us to gain the experience that may be gained from the new provision, which allows us to obtain public criminal records. So I think it could be really constructive if we could meet in a joint report, and then I completely agree with the Danish People's Party that this points to a problem that we need to resolve. We will look forward to continuing to work to bring this to an end.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123117	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123121	Thank you. I had actually counted on Enhedslisten's support, also because we have previously debated this and both the disability organisations and the Elders Case have been out supporting these things. Then I am deeply surprised when the rapporteur asks why the sexual situation is there. I can explain why it says so. After all, in 2016 Christina was sexually offended by a sex-judged sosu assistant who had been convicted in the past, which is why we thought it was important that sexual abuse should also be included, and because we have also seen a number of examples in that area. So do sexual violations have to come out of this proposal so that Enhedslisten can support it? I must say, I am also surprised because we have just adopted L 86, where we have fought for it, at least on the part of the Danish People's Party, that it became a claim on the social housing offers, which are parallel to home care. Why should there not be the same requirements here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123224	It is not because it has something specifically to do with sexual abuse. It is simply because when we go into legislation and start listing specific criminal offences, we must be absolutely sure of what it directly has consequences. It is, among other things. because we have also consulted with the FOA, in terms of how they feel about it. In fact, they also fully support the intentions of the proposal, but there may well be some problems in practical terms. Now the Danish People's Party itself mentions in the comments an example where an employee has beaten a citizen, and thus there has been violence. There, too, it is important to be able to look at what the background to this is. Is it because standards have simply been too bad? Has the pressure of work been too great? I just think that there are some nuances that we will have to get into if it is the case that we have to go out and do something as basic as legislation, and that is also why I am of the opinion that far, by far, most municipalities are doing what we are calling on them to do here. I agree that it is a problem that not all municipalities do so, and we must find a solution to that, but perhaps we could solve it by sending out a clear signal from in here to the KL that now they have to tighten up in relation to the municipalities that do not follow the practice that is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123338	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123339	You can always find hair in the soup if you're looking for them. That's the way it is. But I am surprised that the rapporteur says that in a situation where people have been busy and standards have been too small, an elderly citizen may have been beaten. That's not an excuse. You must not beat older citizens, even if you are under pressure in a situation. There you have the professional background that you have to be able to handle that. What does Enhedslisten think about helping to draw up a report, or is it just a proposal that would be voted down if it were put to the vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123424	Now I fully agree with Mrs Karina Adsbøl that hair should not be found in the soup, and I regret that if we do not vote for it immediately, this is the way it is considered. But I also think it is turning the other way. I stand up here from the platform and give full support to the intentions of it. I believe that this is a very real problem and I believe that we must resolve it. In fact, in my rapporteur's speech, I made it very clear that I think the best solution would be if we could come together in a joint report, and I acknowledge the comment made by Mrs Jane Heitmann that we could then also use it to look at the experience gained from the initiatives we have taken in relation to the legislation on the Social Protection Agency. So I don't think there's any reason to create the big division between Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten in this case. There may be some detail in relation to the way in which the resolution is drafted, which means that we cannot support it immediately, but we fully agree with the intentions of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123516	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123527	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for highlighting an important issue: the safety of the elderly and those who receive public assistance. We must be careful not to increase bureaucracy and the costs of administration in the public sector. And as the rules have been drawn up today, the municipalities have good opportunities to carry out thorough employment interviews, obtain references for the employees they employ and, in cases where the municipalities consider it necessary, to obtain a criminal record. We think it's a good idea to cover it, it's the intention to secure it here. Against this background, I would like to say that we are confident that the municipalities carry out recruitment interviews and in this way keep justice that the staff they employ are decent and honest people. We think it is violent if it is the case that you have to obtain criminal records on all employees. There may be some who may change jobs from one municipality to another municipality. There may be some who have been in the profession for a long time, but who may have been out for a while and have had other jobs and then come back to the care sector. We think it is very violent if it is the case that you have to push this down on the municipalities as a requirement. That is why we are not prepared to support the proposal immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123703	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123713	Sometimes it is good to ask the citizens out there what they want. We in here, the municipalities, the system is for the citizens, and there seems to be something that the citizens want. The elderly want greater security. Then you can choose to speak system and say that we do not believe that the system needs it, or you can also choose to take that direction and say that it is something that the citizens out there want: can we deliver it without the big problems? In this case, we would be able to deliver it without the major problems, and why should we not do something that would please and benefit the citizens it concerns? So that's why New Citizens are positive about this proposal. For further processing, I would like us to dive into and have a look at the data around it. In other words, there have been some examples of crime committed outside the elderly. In how many of these cases was there really a criminal record with anything on it? Was that the case? Or are there none of the cases that have been referred to in the press or that have been closed where there has been a criminal record? I also think it's relevant knowledge to get in this context. However, we owe it to the people in this Chamber to put them first and to do so in the legislation we are making in here, on the basis of what they need, and here it is clear that the elderly have wanted and expressed the desire for greater security and greater security in what people they are coming and how to make sure that those people do not have a criminal past, and that is what we think is positive in the new citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123914	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515123924	Thank you for the floor. The cases dealt with in the comments on the motion for a resolution are awful, and some of them have to be taken the most seriously away from it. It is unforgivable to take advantage of a trusted position to deceive or abuse persons whose well-being is employed. But what we cannot see in the comments on the motion for a resolution is how big the problem is. There has been no analysis of how many of these cases appear in general, and then we will deal with the question of proportionality, such as, for example, the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. Mr. Stinus Lindgreen also mentioned: Is it reasonable to suspect all employees if there is an infinitely small number of stumbled vessels? It may not be, but we cannot know because the analyses have not been presented. A few years ago, I published some sort of handbook in politics with our current Minister of Justice, Mr. Nick Hækkerup, and the current Chairman of the Left, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. In it we dealt with a number of political concepts, including the concept of hoovesa solutions, and our book says, among other things, and I quote: Although it is difficult to make a complete classification of hoovesa solutions, some very common types can be identified. The first is the overreaction. Here it is often the case that a specific but limited problem comes to the public's attention. Some kids don't do homework. Some kids get hurt in the playground. Some people have an overuse of this or that. Instead of investigating the causes of these problems and instead of taking action where they exist, the hoof solution now forbids everyone and everyone to carry out the activity which in some cases causes a few people problems. Whoops. Quote out. We believe that a general requirement for criminal records is not identical, but very similar to the description of the hoof solution contained in our policy manual. So we reject the examples given in the comments on the motion for a resolution. We can help to draw up a report, such as the Left, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515124216	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515124220	I have to say that I am deeply surprised by the rapporteur's speech in relation to hoovesa solutions. This isn't a hoof solution. The cases mentioned in this motion for a resolution and others mentioned in the press are about real people, and if you could prevent just one of the ugly situations with a criminal record, it is worth taking along. But then I would like to hear the rapporteur's views on the agreement we reached, because it was also part of the Liberal Alliance, precisely about criminal records in relation to our accommodation offers • the offers that are subject to social supervision. There you think it's okay to get criminal records on those who are employed, managers, etc., but you don't do that in home care. Is that also a hoofsa solution in relation to our accommodation offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515124315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515124316	But what we are missing here in concrete terms is simply an analysis of how big the problem is. It is true, of course, that there is something called a precautionary principle, but such a precautionary principle must also be properly administered. Because if you say that someone killed in traffic is one too many, you have to ban traffic and that is why the precautionary principle has gone too far. So the question, which has not been resolved here, is simply: how big is the problem? Because there must be proportionality when we make legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515124352	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515124354	That's what's so interesting about this whole discussion. An analysis is required in this area, although one knows it with registration of, among other things. The police and all these things often get an answer back that it will require a manual case review, so you can't deliver that, and at the same time you don't want any more bureaucracy, even if you want to get these numbers: how many is it all about? We cannot do that because, on the one hand, we do not want more bureaucracy, but, on the other hand, we want them to be retrieved, precisely in order to prevent more bureaucracy. Does that make sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515124433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515124435	I'm not gonna be able to say that. However, it is a very big problem that we have a practice in this country where we make too many laws and rules. Professor Peter Bjerre Mortensen has published the book "The State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of This is therefore a dangerous development which we should not push forward with, but which we should do a great deal to prevent. So we don't just have to make rules to make rules if we can avoid that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515124512	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. It has thus become the rapporteur for the proposers' turn, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515124534	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we want it to be compulsory to obtain criminal records on staff working in the care and care sector; to introduce requirements for obtaining public criminal records when recruiting staff. Today, it is an opportunity for employers if they consider it necessary. It is important, in the view of the Danish People's Party, to prevent sexual abuse, violence, thefts and robberies of people who have a physical or mental disability, including people with disabilities, the elderly and people with a mental illness. It is vulnerable citizens in our society who are characterised by the fact that they are often also deeply dependent on help in their daily lives. And, unfortunately, we have seen many examples of the gross abuse of the responsibilities of psychiatric, home - care workers, settlements and nursing homes in order to help those who depend on their help. The storks destroy it for many of the skilled staff who make a huge difference in the care sector every day. And the stumped vessels must be stopped. This is not a new proposal, nor is it a new one. That is why, with the social law we recently adopted, we also introduced a requirement that this offer should be covered by obtaining criminal records when recruiting staff, including managers. And a requirement was introduced that the Social Protection Agency as a condition for the approval of a new offer would be obliged to ensure that the offer has also obtained criminal records from already employed staff and managers. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party have been fighting for for a very long time, and now we are missing the rest. There should be no doubt that there are a great many skilled and competent employees in the care and care professions with their hearts in the right place, who make a huge difference every day and a huge effort in daily life, and who have it as a calling to help other people. And compulsory criminal records will in no way affect them; they can continue their good work and efforts in the care and care professions. The fact that sexual abuse, theft and the like can be committed by a caring person is very taboo and not something you talk loudly about. But the fact that you do not talk about it does not mean that it does not happen. And we must take the debate, even if it can be difficult and even if it can be taboo. The Danish People's Party is also concerned that in this area there may be a large number of dark people who never come forward, precisely because it is a taboo subject. Because when a caregiver commits something criminal or acts irresponsibly, commits sexual abuse or the like, it hits an entire professional group. That is why we also believe that this is needed as a prevention tool so that we can sort out stray vessels. And you may wonder why not, in the same way that a child certificate prevents and protects children, also protects people with a physical or mental disability. Elders The case has also been out to say in the past that there must be the same control over staff for the elderly as there is with staff working with children. And here, too, there has been a desire for a routine check of future employees in home care and nursing homes, so one is sure that they do not have convictions for violence, sexual abuse or enrichment crimes. Unfortunately, we have also witnessed cases of success, including in the documentary on P1, as I mentioned earlier, the sex addict in home care, where it is revealed how a man who has been trained as a social and health assistant and who has previously served as a prison sentence for a violent sexual assault in 2000, has managed to get a job at home care in Roskilde in 2009, where he then commits further sexual assaults on two women. There has been the story of a home helper, where the headline was "Home helper robbed older woman by drugging her." The former President of the National Association of LEV has also said that there is a gap in legislation in this area, and has said that for some areas it is a roof-top table beyond all borders, and that we must get this done. That was their statement. And when that statement came a few years ago, it was also supported by both the Older cause and the mentally ill organization SIND. That is why it is a huge wish from the Danish People's Party that we follow up on this and also take care of some of the most vulnerable people we have in our society. We have also said that this cannot stand alone, but we believe in the Danish People's Party that we can get sorted out some people who are not going to work in the care and care sectors. I would like to thank you for the debate we have had today. In any case, a great deal of thanks to New Citizens who really fully support this. But I would also like to express my regret at the fact that, even if you want to participate in the settlement offers, you do not want to do so in home care. I also think it has seemed as if it has been about finding some hair in the soup. And I can hear from the rapporteurs that, of course, they have all spoken together so as not to have to back up this proposal, and I do of course think that is a real shame in view of the fact that there was another case yesterday. I would like to be able to give an overview of the number of cases involved to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, but I have not had the opportunity to do so. I also know that there are many journalists who have dug in it to find out just how extensive this is. But I hope that we can work together together to find a solution to ensure that, of course, in the care and care sector too, a public criminal record must be handed in. And this isn't about suspiciousing the employees. I can say that I myself am in the field of trade. I am a social and health assistant, and in my employments it has always been very different whether you should hand in a criminal record or otherwise. I think it gives a good feeling when you hand in a criminal record and someone is following up on it and would like to have a copy, as is the case with the children's certificates. So I just don't see any difference in that. I would just like to say here from the platform that it is not a question of suspecting anyone; it is a question of ensuring as far as possible by preventing and using it as a prevention tool that it does not happen in the future. We may not be able to avoid that, but we can at least ensure that this happens as little as possible if we can catch the stumped vessels in the bud. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515125239	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515125244	Thank you. I would just like to take this opportunity to again sign for the proposal. I would just like to say that when Mrs Karina Adsbøl says that the other parties have spoken, it is possible that they have it, but we have not talked with other parties and clarified what our position should be in this. That is a purely factual position on the basis of the specific proposal. As I said, I fully agree with the intention of the proposal. What I just want to hear from Mrs Karina Adsbøl is whether or not it is my opinion that most municipalities actually have this practice. The vast majority of municipalities I know about actually obtain a criminal record. So if we agreed to make a joint report, could it not be a good idea also to try to investigate how much municipalities are already doing this in advance? Because I think it is actually quite a few municipalities that we are talking about where this could be a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515125332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515125332-2	I hope it is. I have not been able to get an overview of it myself, because one thing is that you have a municipality that does it and some municipalities do it, and it also depends on which leader is out on the individual offers.Something else is that I have, at least in the past, received calls from journalists who have found out that there are a number of municipalities that do not. I am also thinking of the case which emerged yesterday that if you had obtained a certificate there, that case would not have arisen. So it would be nice to get an overview of it. However, I still think that you should obtain a public record, just as we do in the area of children's certificates. I think that would be very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515125421	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515125422	There is no doubt that we can see that these are not all municipalities, because then we would not have the cases we are dealing with here. But my point is that I actually believe that very few municipalities do not do so. At least that is my view of my knowledge of local authorities' practices. And that is why it could be very good for us to draw up a joint report, that we can also get it uncovered and see to what extent it is, because it might also do that it would not be necessary for us to make legislation from in here. But if KL were able to ensure that the municipalities all followed that practice, that is, if you could get KL to report to the municipalities, that it would be very wise for them to use that practice, then it could help to prevent us from making legislation about it from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515125503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515125503-2	Well, I think it's a little wider, because the municipalities can also send things in supply in relation to private home care and private companies that carry out some tasks. So it's a little bit about that part too. So it is not only the municipalities; they also have private suppliers who have to follow up on this work, and it would also require a major study, not only in relation to the municipal offers that you have in the municipality, but also in relation to the fact that there are a number of private suppliers who provide services to some of the most vulnerable people in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515125541	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515125600	The debate is open. I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515125628	Thank you. Today's last resolution is about training more specialists in general medicine. So what we know as a general practitioner. Specifically, the proposal aims to increase the number of main training courses to 400 per year from 2022 to 2027 and, at the same time, to increase the number of introductory posts by 195 per year over the same period. As I understand it, the proposal is the more fundamental it is about "the instrumental thing" that there must be good medical coverage for everyone throughout the country, including in general practice. I do not just agree with that, I see it as one of the most important in our health care. So thank you for putting it on the agenda. To make it quite clear: the government considers it a bottom-up task to help provide good medical coverage throughout the country. We have already taken concrete action in this area and we will take more concrete action in this area. I will come back to that in a moment. In recent years, there has been a continuous focus on medical coverage challenges, especially in some parts of the country and within some specialties, among others. general medicine. I think we are all aware and concerned that solutions must be found to this problem, and we have worked on specific matters in the past which have been fine and good, but which have not finally solved the problem. A few examples: In February 2017, it was under the then government, but it was a broad political agreement, so all parties that were in the Danish Parliament at the time have made an agreement for better medical coverage, and this was based on the proposals made by the so-called Medical Protection Committee in January 2017. Approx. Three years later, a few months ago, the Ministry of Health and the Elderly published a report on the state of play in implementing the proposals of the Medical Protection Committee and the political agreement. Overall, the situation shows that the right path is being taken and that the implementation of the initiatives continues to be actively pursued. That is fine, but, as I said, it is not enough, because despite a wide range of efforts to strengthen medical coverage, it has to be said that the proportion of medical clinics that have closed to the entry of new patients has increased significantly. In 2014, that figure was 37 per cent. So, in 2014, it was 37 percent that had closed to the entry of new patients. In 2019, last year, the figure had risen to 62%. So it's gone from 37 percent. at 62%. In just a few years. However, for the sake of good order, I have to say that there is a slight drop in that figure from 2018 to 2019, so you have to bring that nuance with you. However, that increase shows, after all, that there is a need for us all to fully recognise that there are major challenges in several parts of the map in recruiting a sufficient number of doctors and specialists. Therefore, the government has also agreed in last year's financial agreement with Danske Regioner to raise the number of main training positions in general medicine with 100 additional courses distributed with 50 courses starting in 2020 and 50 courses starting in 2021, which means that we can now train 100 additional specialists in general medicine and that a total of 350 main training courses have been dimensioned in 2020. That's a significant boost. But when we talk about lifting the dimension, we must not forget that it will only be useful if the educational positions are filled. It's logical. It is absolutely essential for more specialists to actually be trained, for jobs to be filled, and unfortunately over the years there has been a great deal of unused primary training courses in general medicine and thus a relatively low level of employment in the thesis. The most recent figures I have are from last year, when the degree was 87 per cent. It's important to take along. Secondly, it is also important to remember that more training courses require training capacity. It is absolutely crucial that there are enough experienced doctors to supervise the doctors who are in further education, both for the quality of education and, of course, for patient safety. Similarly, sufficient physical capacity in the form of premises and equipment is also a prerequisite for good training courses, and with the increase in the dimensioning of education courses in general medicine in recent years, we cannot take available training capacity for granted. Thirdly, we owe it to health care to remember the 38 other medical specialties we have in Denmark. They are also very much needed: psychiatrists, doctors specializing in radiology, neurology and all sorts of other diseases that it is important to remember. As with general medicine, the other specialties are also dimensioned in the Danish Health Authority's dimensioning plans, and this is done on the basis of among other things. medical forecasts and input from relevant actors in the field. In this context, I can mention that the current dimensioning plan applies from 2018 to 2020. It then expires at the end of the year and it is expected that the Danish Health Authority will come up with a new dimensioning plan in the middle of the year, but due to the covid-19 situation this plan will initially only become a plan for 2021. Later this year, work will be started on a 5-year dimensioning plan, which will then apply in the period 2022-2026. I informed the Committee on Health and the Elderly of this on 24 April this year. There is no doubt that there is a need to keep a constant eye on how medical coverage develops and is experienced for both citizens and health professionals. I can already say that it is our ambition that general medicine should continue to be the focus of attention in the future. Finally, of course, there are also economic consequences of such a proposal here. I have taken note of the fact that the total cost is just over 1.8 billion. kr. according to the figures presented in the comments to the motion for a resolution. This is an important amount for which, if necessary, funding would have to be found. Let me make it clear once again that the government sees it as a bottom-up task to strengthen medical coverage. Fortunately, we can also see that according to the Danish Health Authority's medical forecast 51 per cent is expected. More specialists in general medicine in the years to come and as far as 2040 where the forecast has been calculated. I have already mentioned that, together with the regions, we have agreed on 100 additional main training courses. But for as long as 2040 none of us has the patience, especially those who live in an area where it is difficult to get a doctor, and that is why I think it is our job to spread the palette out and see how we support better medical coverage here in the short term and in the medium term. Here the government has among other things. We have done so in order to increase the number of doctors in general practice in order to remedy the medical shortage in the short term. Also in the context of the ongoing negotiations on a new three-year collective agreement for general practice, medical coverage is a key priority for the state. Here, among other things, we want the general practitioners themselves to help solve the medical coverage challenges, and this can be done, for example. be by the doctors organising themselves in larger units, more doctors, more practice staff so that doctors can be relieved, by raising and differentiating the closing limits so that doctors can take more patients in the future, and by further differentiating basic honoring in order to reward doctors who settle in medically threatened areas and in areas with heavy patients, financially. These are proposals and priorities that can contribute to better medical coverage in the shorter term. I would also like to take this opportunity today to present a new initiative in relation to the further training of doctors. In fact, later this year, the Government will launch a major work on medical further training in order to ensure that medical further training is adapted to the requirements of the future health care system. It is a work that will be anchored in the Danish Health Authority, with the involvement of relevant parties, of course, and it will have to include others. is seen in the design of medical training across disciplines, with the aim of ensuring that further training supports the population's future needs for healthcare as best as possible. I know it's a job that's very much in demand, among other things. by our doctors. The ambition is that work can contribute with solutions to medical coverage challenges in the longer term, including: in the form of structural solutions. I look forward to following this work closely, and of course I will also keep the Danish Parliament's Committee on Health and the Elderly closely informed when the work gets under way. To conclude, the government has already taken a number of initiatives to strengthen medical coverage, and we will continue to do so in the future, because it is important that there are sufficient training courses. But good medical coverage is more and more complex and contains more elements than dimensioning alone, so the government cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515130633	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515130638	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for expressing the government's position. I am, of course, a little disappointed that we are breaking the trend that the government is supporting resolutions on my part. After all, the minister mentions the 2 times 50 main courses, which have been agreed with Danske Regions, and in among other things. a reply to Mrs Liselott Blixt from 20 August 2019 states that this is an important step on the road. My question is this: why not take the final step so that, as described in our proposal, all Danes can have access to a general practitioner when we reach about 2040, which is what the PLO will be able to do if this proposal is adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515130741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515130745	It is true that these 100 additional training courses, which we have agreed with Danske Regions, and which are funded in the agreement with Danske Regions, are a step on the way. I cannot deny that it will be relevant in relation to the structural work of looking at education in general, which the Danish Health Authority is setting in motion, and that there will also be ideas that something more can be done. I'm not saying this work ends with this. However, as I explained in my speech, there are a large number of other factors to which attention should also be paid, such as: training places must also be filled. And there alone, if you can have a larger number of training places, we will go some way. That's why we need to look more broadly at this problem, which is a big issue that we need to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515130841	Sir. Per Larsen wishes to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515130845	Thank you. For the purpose of filling the main training courses: These include: Therefore, we are also proposing to increase the number of intro posts, so that there are considerably more people who learn what is going on in general practice and perhaps want a main course of training as a general practitioner. In the same reply to Liselott Blixt, the Minister writes that for the government medical coverage in general practice will also be a key priority in the negotiations on a future health agreement. My question is therefore: when can we expect the negotiations on a future health agreement to begin so that we can resolve the problem in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515130920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515130924	I am not going to make a date here, but it is clear that when it comes to the government's plans for a future health agreement, they will, of course, have to be affected by the situation with the epidemic that we have to deal with here in the Kingdom. However, as the epidemic comes under control and will continue to be under control while we reopen society, we can also engage in negotiations and discussions on the health agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515130955	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. That is why we are now embarking on the rapporteur's round. It's first, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131009	First of all, I would like to thank Conservatives for raising an important agenda in Parliament today, namely to ensure that Danes have access to a permanent practitioner. This is one of the biggest health challenges in the years to come, and we have a major and important task in addressing the geographical inequality that we see in our health services and which means that there are thousands of citizens in parts of Denmark who do not have access to the same good health care as the rest of the country. I myself come from an area in Denmark where the medical shortage is felt very concretely. In the Region of Zealand, we will be in a situation within a few years if we do not do something emergency, where one in eight citizens will be without a permanent practitioner. This is equivalent to 100,000 citizens in one region of Denmark alone. In several municipalities, almost all general practitioners have closed down the access of new patients, and when you consider the role of the general practitioner in our health system, it is of course a disaster. At present, it is 140,000 Danes who do not have access to their own general practitioner. So this is something that creates a marked inequality in our healthcare system. That is why, both in the short and long term, we need more doctors and, of course, education plays a very important role here and, as the Minister for Health also mentioned in his speech, the first step has already been taken. Last year, the government agreed with Danske Regions to create 100 new main courses in general medicine, namely 50 this year and 50 next year. That's a really good start. But it is not just important to train more doctors. It is not even enough to train enough doctors. What is crucial is that we get them trained so that they settle down in the right places, where people need doctors. It can't help that we have the right number of doctors in the wrong places. That is why I also regret the fact that the Conservatives' proposal does not pay greater attention to the geographical disparities that we see in the country. I think it is important that in the coming years we train more doctors and that when we do so we also look at having them trained in those parts of the country where there is the greatest medical shortage, so there are not only doctors for those who are the most healthy, but also doctors for those who are the most ill. That must be fair. We have, for example. very good experience with medical training in Aalborg, which has not only ensured more training places, but has also ensured more doctors to North Jutland. We can easily be inspired by this in the years to come. When it comes on time after 2021, we are currently awaiting a long-term dimensioning plan. Here we have to produce forecasts and hearings, including those of the professional organisations and the professional companies in the field of health, so that we get a comprehensive picture of the need for specialists in the years to come, both the specialists in general medicine and all the other specialties. I think it makes very good sense for us to wait for that process instead of just us in this Chamber to stand here today and decide on the whole dimensioning. It will be very quickly such a think of a number game where a random number is shaken out of the sleeve, instead of doing a thorough analysis of the need. Therefore, it is most right to wait for the work on the long-term dimensioning plans and, on the basis of them, to make sensible and wise and long-term decisions. It is also estimated that the proposal will cost 1.8 billion. kr., as Conservatives suggest, must be taken from the economic space. All we have to do is pay attention to the fact that, for good reasons, we never know how such a room for manoeuvre will be in the future • that if we do this, it will mean that money will be lacking in other areas and that money will be lacking in health care. It may well be the right thing to do, but we just need to be aware of the consequences that it will have when we spend money this way and make sure that it is thought into a wider context. So to sum up what the message is from the Social Democratic Party: we are pleased that the problem is highlighted. We cannot support the proposal as it stands here, but we look forward to working with both the proposers and the other parties of the Folketing to ensure better medical coverage throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131433	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131437	Thank you. Now the rapporteur mentions that there are 140 000 Danes who do not have access to a general practitioner but who are referred to a clinic of some kind. We also know that the figure will grow to 300 000 in the year that comes. After all, we think it is violent and it creates precisely the inequality in health that the rapporteur mentions. It is therefore somewhat disappointing that at this stage the Social Democratic Party will not help to increase the number sufficiently, so that once and for all we can ensure that we resolve this problem. Because it has come from the fact that far too few general medical practitioners have been trained in the past and that it has not been attractive enough to be a medical practitioner. I have taken note of the fact that just 8 March last year the Social Democratic Party was called the rapporteur. Flemming Møller Mortensen asked questions about getting guarantees that all the additional 320 introductory posts in general medicine that the then government would set up in 2019 and 2020 did not have to be filled with younger doctors, so that the citizens of those parts of Denmark who are currently suffering from medical shortages could expect that more hands would actually come into the general practice. I think that would be a good intention to pursue this, even if the Social Democratic Party has gained the power of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131558	Thank you. We'll get an answer to that. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131602	The resolution tabled by the Conservative People's Party does not solve the challenges raised by the Conservative Health Rapporteur, namely that we have an acute medical shortage and within just the next two years it will look really bad. That is not going to be resolved with the proposal we have here. It's gonna be years before we get the effect of this proposal. The second challenge with the great medical shortage is that there is a huge imbalance in where in the country there is going to be a shortage of doctors. Neither does the motion for a resolution solve that. So it is quite different tools that need to be used. There is something about the long-term strategy, which means that we need to have more doctors trained. There's a long, cool move in that regard. Then there is something on the short track that can be remedied and solved with various tools, including: by providing better opportunities for regional clinics and for doctors to enter the country, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131703	Sir. Per Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131706	I fully agree with the rapporteur that there is also a long-term challenge, and that is precisely the challenge we are addressing with this model. The extension of medical training for six months, for which I have heard the Socialists argue, certainly does not solve the problem, because that means that we are making the course of training six months longer, and that means that it will take six months more before we have trained specialists. This certainly does not help to solve the problem, even in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131741	I just have to stick to the geography thing. The big challenge in the long run is that we are going to need doctors and that there are parts of the country where it will look really, really bad if we are not really aware of our responsibilities. And then it doesn't help anything to train another 400 doctors who can find their way somewhere in Copenhagen and around when there's going to be a shortage of doctors acutely everywhere else in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131814	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131818	Thank you very much. I heard that the rapporteur mentioned Aalborg and that we should be inspired. For a long time it has been the wish of the Danish People's Party and I know that some members of the Social Democrats also want to get the right medical training for the Region of Zealand, so that we could get some people who were looking down there and stayed in the area inspired by Aalborg. The municipalities down there could create settlement strategies and make themselves too many of those who might be able to settle in the area. Is that something the rapporteur wants to work for?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131852	You'd almost think it was a planted question. I have a lot of eyes on it. I have also been chairman of the Education and Research Committee in the Folketing in the past, and I have very, very much an eye on what this means, that there are real and good educational offers in all parts of the country. There is no doubt that the reason why doctors have been lacking in North Jutland for many, many years and have lacked doctors in the Region of Zealand is that you have not been able to train doctors yourself. Now you can train doctors in North Jutland, and this is a huge health benefit for North Jutland and thus also for the rest of Denmark. And it is then, I would say, personally for me a dream that someday we can find a way to train doctors throughout Denmark. This does not mean that it is just easy and that it is something that I can promise or guarantee anything about, because of course it must be professionally founded. There are all kinds of reservations there. But it is a dream for me, as well as it is a dream for me, that we can train all sorts of other staff that are needed so that you can live and live and train throughout Denmark and not only in the largest cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131948	Mrs. Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515131952	The rapporteur also mentioned the room for manoeuvre, and I would like to hear this: is it the economy that affects how many doctors we have to train, or are we going to train the number of doctors that are appropriate to Denmark's size and so that everyone can have a medical practitioner?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132010	We must train the doctors we need in the various specialties, just as we must train the healthcare professionals we need, so that we have a good and strong healthcare system. Of course, all of this has to be funded and thought into an overall health picture, namely how we get the best health for the money. So it's not the number in itself that disqualifies this proposal necessarily, but it just has to be thought into a bigger picture, compared to the fact that if we spend that money, we just have to be aware that then that money may be missing at the other end.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132043	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132046	Thank you. I think it really is thought-provoking to hear the Socialist rapporteur devote quite a lot of effort to everything that cannot be done in the view of the Socialist rapporteur. There was a shooting down of health reform, peace with it, but there were, in fact, some initiatives in this direction. Now the Conservative People's Party is putting forward a proposal, probably as a consequence of it, and that is not what we want to do. And then there is a proposal to force doctors into general practice, of which we have not yet seen the contours. Well, we have not seen any proposal put forward. I just want to ask what initiatives the government is actually going to take now and here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132128	But basically I believe that the very big difference between the previous bourgeois government's attempt to make a health reform was made at the very last moment with the narrowest possible majority, and which then fell to the ground with a bang, almost before the ink was dry and the intentions of the government here are that we want a decentralised health service. And the crucial thing to create a strong decentralised healthcare system is to preserve our regions, and we believe that it would be a great and serious damage to our health services and to our local and regional democracy to destroy the regions. So we cannot support the Left in closing down the regions, and that is the main reason why we have not been able to support the initiatives that came from the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132232	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132235	Yeah, but that's not what I asked. I just asked in all silence and with such low voices as I can almost have, what are the government's initiatives? In other words, I understand that the government did not think that health reform should come into being and, by the way, there is no majority in favour of it, so it does not really matter now. So I'm just asking what kind of initiatives the government itself has on the palette. In other words, it is of no use that the Left and the other blue parties should make policy development for a social democratic government which the Socialist Government can then shoot down. Well, what's the government got on the palette? It's the government that rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132314	In any case, the latter is quite correct. But in the last few months it has been about dealing with a very, very serious crisis for Danish society and the Danish health care system. The Left's health rapporteur has probably noticed that the government has been very active in this matter, far along the way also with the Left. And then we have a health service that we need to strengthen, and we have an interaction that needs to be ensured, between municipalities, regions and practitioners, and that is where we have a great task ahead of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132347	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132351	Thank you. Some doctors are employed in clinics where illegal immigrants and people who are in the country can come and get treatment. Will the Social Democratic Party help close these clinics so that these doctors can come out and work elsewhere where they are needed for the benefit of Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132409	I don't have any plans to close any clinics. If the rapporteur is aware that something is being done illegally, I think the rapporteur should come to the right place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132419	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132423	That is precisely what the problem is: it is not illegal. At these clinics, people who are illegal in Denmark can contact and get medical help and leave the place fully legal, and it is a scandal that it is happening on Danish soil. That is why I am just asking the Social Democrats, because this is a way of releasing doctors who can come out and work in the Danish health system for Danish citizens who are here and who are born here, rather than serving illegal immigrants who really do not have the right to be here. With the current system you use doctors on it, and there is no need for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132456	Well, I can repeat the answer from before: we have no plans to lay down any clinics.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132500	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Rasmus Horn Langhoff has no further brief comments and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132514	Thank you. I just need to get the podium down; it is a high rapporteur in the Social Democratic Party. Look, sir. Per Larsen, it sounds nice to have a family doctor, and one is bound to think of Dr Hansen from Matador, but I also think it has to be said that the old-fashioned family doctor, if you will, who visited us with the little brown suitcase and stethoscope and if necessary such a little fever-lowering medicine, probably belongs to a lost time. The modern family doctor and thus also the modern medical practitioner and the modern medical practice that our children are going to meet will probably be very different from the practitioner we meet today, and at least very different from the doctor I knew when I was a boy. In the future, we and our children will experience practitioners and we will experience a subject constantly changing and continuing training. In some cases we will meet the doctor virtually, and we will see far more outreach doctors who will actively participate in tracing nondiagnosed citizens with chronic diseases and who, in line with relief and treatment, will be able to advise us effectively on prevention. The family doctor and thus the role of the general practitioner in the Danish health care system, I think, will be even more important in the future. The general practitioner is today the Gatekeeper in relation to the rest of the health service, and that role is being strengthened, but the doctor is also, and will at the same time in the future also gradually be able to deal with more complex issues than today and therefore even more by himself. However, the medical practitioner of the future has in common with Dr Hansen that he enjoys our trust, and that is precisely why the family doctor is important to our children, for the young people who are becoming increasingly demanding, I should say, for the middle-aged people who have already researched their symptoms and possible diseases on the Internet before the consultation, and then, of course, for the elderly, who, with more and more chronic diseases, are going to be in relatively complex treatment courses for them, the practicing doctor becomes important. It is precisely the practitioner who, like Dr Hansen, continues to have a personal relationship with patients and who becomes our supervisor and who can refer to further investigation and treatment within the framework of the patient rights that I hope and expect will be re-phased as soon as possible. After all, in January 2019 the previous government presented the programme "More Hands and Greater Work Enjoyment," recommending an increase in the number of main training courses in general medicine of 100 in addition to the 60 additional main training courses in general medicine that had already been completed. As you know, this did not happen all the way, which is why we are pleased and why we also support the Conservatives' proposal that, with this motion for a resolution, we require the government to ensure medical coverage throughout the country. I know that the government is aware of the problem of few general practitioners, but we must also say, on the other hand, that it has so far been as with concrete proposals from the government in relation to the strengthening of close health care. We agreed with the Danish People's Party on a health reform. It also included some funding for the near health care system, and actually a great deal. There is now no longer a majority in favour of this agreement and peace with it, but the challenges addressed by our reform still remain, which is why I have to say that the government still owes some answers to this. The Left therefore supports the proposal from the Conservatives, and we absolutely do so, but we are at the same time in agreement that the medical profession is facing a huge transformation, in which dialogue with patients and relatives will be quite different from what we knew from it, sorry the term, old-fashioned family doctor. The family doctor can handle this change, and by training more general practitioners, the family doctor will also continue to be found throughout the country and therefore also in the geographical outermost regions of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132936	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132944	Thank you. I would like to ask whether the Left will support the desire of New Citizens to close these clinics which treat illegal foreigners in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515132949	I simply have to say to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that I have just to dig into it half a spade in deeper, before I can give a perfectly clear answer to it. I come completely unprepared for that question to say what it is, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133006	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133009	I think that's a nice free speech, and I'd like to leave some material. After all, it is about clinics where illegal people can go and get treatment and where they can be anonymous, and then they can continue to be illegal in Denmark. This is a complete scandal. And we in New Citizens would very much like to have them closed, and if the Left is willing to look with an open mind to see if we should close them.I understand that you haven't read it.I feel very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133032	I feel that way about sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that everything that comes from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, simply received with an open mind with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133036	Then it's mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133040	Thank you. Now the rapporteur of the Left himself mentioned that the health reforms of previous governments have shown great interest in this, and this is also the case under this government in relation to a future health agreement. So just out of curiosity, I would like to ask: What is the status at present? in the Left's policy, in relation to whether there should be regional councils in the future? Should it be abolished? Is it the policy? Or should it continue? Is it the policy of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133116	After all, this is a very free debate which I can see the Socialist rapporteur is now calling for, in other words, where we are now basically addressing the Danish health service. But listen to me, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff: There is no majority for the health reform anymore, so it is as it is. What I really think is mostly interesting in this because it is not me who is in government anymore; the Left is no longer in government is that the rapporteur's party is in government, so it is the government that has to come up with some proposals on how we can ensure that the family doctor is also in the sparsely populated areas in the future. And there I have just heard the Socialist rapporteur and the government reject Mr. Per Larsen's motion for a resolution and the health reform of the previous government, and so there will be no concrete action from the government in relation to that of forcing doctors into general practice. So the government has nothing on the palette, and it is the government that is government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133206	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133208	The last one's still gone right. I'm gonna try the same question again, and then I'm gonna have to make it as simple as possible to increase the likelihood that I'm getting answers. Is it the policy of the Left that the regions should be closed down? Or is it the policy of the Left that the regions should not be closed down?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133231	Well, we have a good discussion on that in the Left, i.e. whether they should. And unless the rapporteur's President and Prime Minister intend to hold elections right now and here, in the next three weeks, I think we have plenty of time to discuss it here in the Left, and there I must say to the Socialist rapporteur that we would like to reserve that right in the Left, namely to discuss such things before Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff will be informed of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133257	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Martin Geertsen. There are no more brief comments. And we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133310	I would like to start by thanking Conservatives for bringing up the proposal. After all, we held together earlier in the year 2013, which was a year of fate for the doctors. This can also be seen in the figures of how many doctors actually want to become a general practitioner, because it fell dramatically when a red government led by Astrid Krag, Minister for Health, went in and overruled the agreement of the regions and doctors and made a bill where the only parties that did not support were the Conservative and the Danish People's Party. And if you do not believe that it has happened, you can find the figures of how much it fell, and you can also find figures of how many people gave up their practices at that time. In the Danish People's Party, we have always fought to get family doctors around the country, so that everyone, no matter where one lives or what one fails, can have the confidence and knowledge of his practitioner that many of us remember from the past. But it's not just doing this. After all, with a previous government, we have made several moves to ensure better medical coverage • a medical coverage committee came up with concrete ideas, and in 2017 we made a broad political agreement that is still being implemented. But we agree with Conservatives that it is not enough when we look at how many of our citizens are dissatisfied with doctors, who are there only a short time at a time, and that they never gain the confidence of the doctor that you get when you have had the same doctor for several years. In the Danish People's Party, we had an issue in this area before the elections that we are still working for, and that's a lot more than what this proposal says. Because it is not only useful to have more training courses and more introductory positions; we should also like to have it so that doctors choose to enter those areas which today find it difficult to recruit doctors. And we do not believe that the duty of the present government will do so; on the contrary, we will just push even more to the fear of getting into the medical clinics. We need so many general doctors that there will be a motivation to move geographically. That is why we are in favour of the proposal, because right now it is with a doctor's words as with a chair game: how many available chairs are there? Then you choose one of the closest chairs. We in the Danish People's Party would like someone to choose the chair that is the furthest away or that may be a little harder to reach, and that is why we need a plan. Just as Egon Olsen would have said, we need different media: carrots, soft chairs, golf sets, surfboards, stone hammers, bricks. And why would you do that? Yeah, well, the carrots are what we need instead of coercion. We need to have good opportunities for doctors to settle in municipalities, they had not just thought of a long, binding requirement, but an opportunity to form networks, not to commit themselves financially and easy access to them. There must be some soft chairs for the older doctors that we want to stay a little longer. We need to have the golf kit for those doctors who need a little less hours to stay in their practice and have a little more free time as they want. The surfboard we give to the young people, so that they will go to the West Coast • North Jutland I know they love to get up to, because then they can surf in their spare time. And hammers and bricks need to be used to build current clinics bigger so that extra staff can enter. That's what we need. We would like to have this plan made in the Danish People's Party. If, with such a plan, we can also create the faith and trust that doctors need, so that they feel they have the respect they actually lost in 2013, then I also think we can get the family doctor back. But it is hard work and money must be secured for it. The Minister writes how much it costs, and we heard the rapporteur talk about that too, but we are surprised that this should be the reason for a 'no', because that is not what matters. Because if we do not have practitioners who can serve our citizens in society, it will cost even more money in the future. So, of course, we support the proposal, but will be able to make a report in which we include it in greater planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133802	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why we can move on to Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515133821	I just need to get the podium a little higher after Martin Geertsen's comments, and then I'm at social democratic level. Thank you very much for the floor. This is a very sympathetic proposal that has come from the Conservative People's Party. I assume that everyone in here agrees that there is a medical shortage in Denmark, and I think it is a bottom-up task for all of us to solve that challenge, and I look forward to getting started with that. Because we need to strengthen medical coverage across the country. Of course, it is untenable that there are such geographical differences in our small country. It is therefore positive that it has already been agreed to establish a further 100 main training courses in general medicine. But it does not solve the whole challenge; it is clear. That is why I am looking forward to the new dimensioning plan for 2021 for the medical specialties that will be presented shortly. And I also look forward to the forthcoming long-term dimensioning plan to be launched after the summer. One of my problems with the proposal, as it is here, is not the problem, but it is the choice to focus on one element out of a very complex issue. In my view, it is absolutely necessary to think about the whole, as there are other medical specialists who have recruitment problems as well. One has to look at the overall capacity and this requires thorough preparatory work. In addition, I also think it is a little fresh for the Conservative People's Party to come up with a proposal here on a Friday afternoon that costs up to 2 billion. kr. I do not think that is the best way to solve a real problem. Therefore, we cannot support the proposal as it stands here, although we fully agree with the issue. Instead, I look forward to a thorough plan taking into account all the medical thesis and with relevant professional input. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134019	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134022	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for expressing the radical approach to the issue. Does the rapporteur not recognise that we have the absolute greatest challenge in relation to general practitioners? We have never had as many doctors as we have now, but the number of practitioners is greatly decreasing. Doesn't that call for a solution right now? Because we know how long it takes to train practitioners. So do we not agree that it is urgent to find a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134102	We are in complete agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134112	Sir. Per Larsen? No. That concludes the question and we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134118	Thank you. Thank you to the Conservative People's Party for making this proposal. In the SF we take the challenge of lack of doctors in general practice deeply seriously, and a collective Parliament, including ourselves, was behind the big medical coverage agreement that we concluded in January 2017 • an agreement that just intended to stem the lack of practitioners, but also an agreement where I already argued that it is still a challenge we face and that there is a long, tough move that we still have to overcome. This has also been addressed by the new government in the recent agreement on the economy of the regions, which also addresses at least the first 100 additional main training courses, which is also an indication that we are constantly moving in the right direction. In fact, when the Conservatives propose to increase the number of primary education courses in general medicine, I also believe that the party is kicking in an open door, so to speak, because the medical coverage has indeed had a great deal of attention, and rightly so, in terms of health policy. Especially when it comes to education in general medicine, we are challenged. It is said that it is not particularly attractive for young doctors to both buy a clinic and reduce themselves in an area, perhaps with the prospect of being locked in an area for many years to come. That is why we must also consider whether we can otherwise meet the needs of general practitioners. In the SF, we believe, first and foremost, that patients should have the opportunity to have their own medical practitioner. However, whether or not a medical practitioner is employed in the region and resides in a regional clinic, perhaps along with some other doctors, is not essential for quality. However, new forms of ownership can determine how we can attract new practitioners in the future. It is also part of the discussion that we are generally challenged by the lack of doctors, also in other areas, in other specialties, and in parentheses I would like to say that we are also challenged by the lack of health care professionals in general. Therefore, we also need to have a general focus on how we can make it attractive to seek health education. Part of the solution can be more flexibility in the business areas of the respective professional groups, so that nurses and therapists can relieve doctors more of the burden, just as social and health assistants and medical secretaries and other health professionals may be able to relieve nurses more of the burden. Corona has had as a consequence that specialities have had to work together across, and there are several examples that precisely that interdisciplinaryity has benefited quality and job satisfaction. When more wise people stick their heads together, there is a greater chance that the patient will get out of the hospital safely, and who does not want to see good results from today's work? The dimension of health education and also of doctors must remain high on the health policy agenda, but it makes sense to wait for a future dimensioning plan, in which we will also have the opportunity to assess medical coverage in general. In addition, for the sake of good order, I would also like to point out that there is a significant financial cost to this proposal, which in isolation relates to practitioners, whom I would rather rather be addressed to a more interdisciplinary discussion, in which the right and good solutions could be looked at across the whole health sector. Therefore, the SF cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134455	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134503	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen for explaining the SF's position. In other words, I am a little disappointed because I have noticed that Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen has had a great deal of interest in this and actually asked a number of questions to the Minister about what the Minister will do to ensure that some more practitioners are trained. Unfortunately, the Minister has not had the opportunity to answer all questions because of the covid-19 situation, but there will certainly be some answers at some point. But does the rapporteur not agree with me that it is urgent to ensure medical coverage throughout Denmark, so that everyone has the opportunity to have a medical practitioner whom they have chosen, whom they trust and which they also have the opportunity to confide in? Because we have to say that it gives real equality in health when you have the opportunity to consult a medical practitioner who you know and whom you trust. And next year it is over 300,000 Danes who do not have that opportunity, so frankly I think it is urgent, and I am actually quite convinced that the rapporteur agrees with me on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134608	I fully agree with that. I had the pleasure here a year ago to visit Dr Hansen in Ringsted, who had established himself in such a collective clinic where you were several doctors to share a clinic and where you could also take care of several different types of diseases. I thought that was a dazzlingly good idea. I just do not think that we will succeed in solving the problem of medical coverage in general if we do not think about it in another way. So I also tried to mention in my introduction that perhaps we should look at another way of organizing it. Perhaps we should think in public clinics to which you can rent yourself, so that you are not obliged to settle in an area for perhaps the rest of your life. Perhaps we need to think in a different way to what we have done so far. And in general, we have challenges in training doctors in the various specialties. This is a challenge that we also need to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134702	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Per Larsen the word again? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134706	Thank you. That is precisely why it is so urgent for us to have some training. Because it may well be that it can motivate some to settle down in different places, but if we have not trained enough general medical professionals, then the quality goes the whistle, and then we do not have the opportunity to occupy in the outer area. The number is simply important; I think the rapporteur agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134732	Yes, but doctors must also be able to be recruited to the training areas, and they must also be able to be recruited to post afterwards. And it is also a challenge, which is addressed partly in the 2017 medical coverage agreement, partly addressed in the agreement with Danske Regioner last year with several main training programmes, and in the future it should also be addressed when we look at how we can organise the health care in a better and perhaps more qualified way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134803	We thank Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515134812	Thank you for that, President. A medical shortage is a serious and urgent problem. It has been over a long period of time, and therefore it is also good and relevant that Conservatives are now raising the issue by tabling this resolution. It is a fine and commendable initiative to ensure all Danes access to a general practitioner through the training of several doctors in general medicine. With the 2017 medical coverage agreement, there was broad political agreement to focus on solving the problem of lack of medical coverage, both in relation to specific specialties and geographical spread. In this context, a number of initiatives were launched, which we naturally support. In addition, 100 more main training positions have been created with the 2020 financial agreement between the government and Danske Regions. With the newly created posts, we reach 350 posts, which is 50 from the proposal. Unfortunately, however, there is still not very high application for posts; it is still the case that only 86 to 87 per cent are filled. of the posts. Therefore, a future with more general practitioners is also about making it more attractive to be a general practitioner, for example. to improve the working environment. That is why we do not support raising the closing limits, so that there are more patients in each practice. Many doctors are still on sick leave with stress and the complexity of patients in general practice continues to increase and will continue to increase with the increasing number of elderly medical patients, psychiatric patients and multi-sickness, as everyone needs to be treated more in general practice. There we believe much more in the Enhedslisten that we need to find solutions that can accommodate the future generation of general practitioners. We know that many young doctors do not always want to be both medical and independent clinic owners with employer responsibility. Here is community, opportunity for college sparring, research and sufficient time for patients much more attractive. That is why it is also a question of thinking in new structural ways. It could, for example, be done. be to release the regional clinics more freely. Today, there is little possibility of continuity in regional clinics because they are constantly subject to demand for them to be put out to tender again. Instead of ensuring peace for regional clinics, this allows for a much greater degree of stability and flexibility. Today there are many general medical practitioners employed in the hospitals. By making divisional positions between regional clinics and hospitals' research environments, part of them will be able to be attracted to manning practice for a few days a week. It will not go beyond continuity, because it is the same doctor who comes out, just not every day. Similarly, it also allows for a greater degree of professional sparring, and it can also be a good springboard for young practitioners before they embark on establishing themselves in private practice. Another possibility may be to experiment with other forms of ownership to meet the need for professional sparring, research and safety in employment. It is not only about educating more doctors, but also about how we ensure that it becomes attractive to act as a general practitioner, so that we can both attract and maintain young doctors and can ensure adequate geographical distribution. We do this by ensuring good working conditions, and that is why, of course, we do not support the government's proposals on duty. On the other hand, we are looking forward with tension to collective bargaining between the regions and the PLO, where there is also a focus on hiring more support staff in general practice. For these reasons, we cannot support the Conservative People's Party proposal. And perhaps one reason why we cannot make the proposal is that we, as a financially responsible party, have to find that it is just fresh enough to put forward a proposal where there is a lack of funding for 1.8 billion. kr. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515135204	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are going to move on to Mr Beazley's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515135217	I just don't understand! I don't understand! Now we are here in 2020 discussing a question of medical shortages. Well, this was also discussed in 2019 and 2018, 2017, 2015 and 2014; well, as far as I can think back, the Danish Parliament has debated medical shortages. Well, what's going on? I understand if the citizens out there are watching and just thinking: Get it fixed! And how do you do that? But this is done by looking at a demographic projection: how many people will there be in the country, how many doctors are there and how many can they handle? Why hasn't it been done? That is what we have to do, and it is quite simple supply and demand. Sometimes some people say: Well, we can't get any doctors out into some specific areas. No, but how do you get them out? This is done by training enough to ensure that if you want a job, you also go where it is. Instead, we fill up seats with Norwegians and Swedes who go home. We have illegal clinics in Denmark where doctors spend their spare time treating illegal immigrants. Get it fixed. And I would urge the Folketing and the government to sit down and make a serious projection of this demographic development so that we can see how many doctors we're going to need, and then we'll start training them. Problem solved! Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515135403	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515135415	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to say to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that there are some things you have to stop wondering about. Well, there's always 40 years till there's peaceful fusion energy. These are some things you just have to learn to accept that this is the way the world is organized. This may require a certain age, but then you will realise that this is how things are. Like the Enhedslisten, we cannot support the proposal, and it is for the same reasons that we are a financially responsible party. The famous room for manoeuvre no longer exists, and so the proposal is not really financed. Those are the harsh terms. 1.8 billion kr. is a lot of money at the end of the month, and we don't have it right now. But I also believe that we need to talk about these things in a different way, because the proposal is only a corner of some much bigger problems. It is simply necessary to make it more attractive to be a private practitioner, and this is not done by means of planned economy and heavy regulation, as we are doing today. It is not the case that doctors are missing in Denmark. There are just not enough of those who find it attractive to practise general medicine, especially in the so-called outermost regions. And that is why the political task must, of course, be to make it attractive to practise general medicine throughout the country. And this is done by removing much of the really heavy regulation of the industry that we have today. Within a defined health professional framework, it should simply be more free to practise general medicine, so that a thousand general practical flowers can flourish throughout the country and you can come into contact with general practitioners throughout the country. But we also need to discuss urbanisation honestly. I live in Ribe in southern Jutland myself, and I have chosen to accept this, although I cannot get freshly pressed juice delivered at 3 o'clock in the morning or in normal circumstances go to a restaurant until 5 o'clock in the morning. We simply cannot do that; I can do that here in the million city of Copenhagen. So we have to accept that there is something called local conditions and that the values of glory that I enjoy when I am at home also have a price, in that there are simply some of the pleasures of the million-town that I have to give up. A certain heterogeneity is a necessary consequence of the fact that there is a difference between city and country. There is a difference between East Zealand and East Jutland and the rest of the country. Both have enormous advantages, but you have to accept as a starting point that you cannot live as if you were living in a million town when you live far out in the countryside. Otherwise, we don't have a realistic conversation about these things. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515135742	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515135758	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for a good debate. Practising doctors in general practice is, after all, a cornerstone of our health care. And if it works as intended, that is, in a regime where there are enough doctors, then it is quite unique. The fact that you have the option of choosing a doctor of your choice is what we want to achieve: that we have so many practitioners, so you have the opportunity to choose a doctor of your own according to gender and age and temperament and everything else is a great system. For a very cheap money it actually costs society only about DKK 1,400. per year per year, We have access to a general practitioner 365 days a year because the doctor is also included in the amount. It's a great system with high quality. There are reports that document it. At Aarhus University, Peter Vedsted, I think he is called, has made a comparison of the primary health systems in the Scandinavian countries with which we usually compare ourselves. And it just turned out that patient satisfaction is incredibly high among practitioners in Denmark. There are plenty of consultations; they have more face-to-face consultations than they do in the other Nordic countries, and indeed also more telephone and e-mail consultations. And that, of course, brings satisfaction and good quality to the citizens where it works. The only problem is that we have everything, far too few doctors, and therefore there are plenty of people left behind. At the moment it is 140,000, and next year it is 300,000, because it has not been done in time to cover the capacity. As Parliament, we cannot be aware of this, that is to say that there are so many people who need a doctor, and that is why we simply need to train some more people. As a Parliament, we have the opportunity to do so. We can simply solve the problem, so of course I had hoped that a broad majority would emerge today in order to adopt the proposal to increase the number of introductory posts and main training courses so that we would be sufficiently up to the level of meeting demand. It is so important for us people to have the opportunity to come to a doctor that we know. We could all get into a life crisis. I am thinking of this in relation to the debate we often have on equality in health. It means so much that you have the opportunity to consult a doctor who you know and in whom you trust and who knows your life story. I also sometimes talk to chronic patients who, of course, report how emotional it is that they do not have the opportunity to come to a doctor who they know because, unfortunately, they live in an area where they are referred to a clinic where there may be doctors who are there only once a week. And they never have the opportunity to meet the same doctor again. Then they should start by summing up what is wrong with them and what their life story is and how it all fits together. Otherwise, if they have a general practitioner they have consulted for many years, then you know each other. The doctor doesn't need time to go through the file and see what this is about. Then you have a very good connection with a doctor who knows you and understands what it is about. Doctors also say it themselves: the fact that well-known patients come through the door gives a good quality in their medical work, because there are plenty of things they know in advance, and it is much more straightforward, rather than sitting in a clinic where you have never seen the patients before and they just rush into large numbers during the day and it is always new faces that you have to deal with. General practice in Denmark is unique with high patient satisfaction, high quality, high patient safety. The only negative thing to say about general practice is that we have too few doctors. After all, we can see once again that a well-functioning primary sector leads to lower mortality rates, it leads to longer life expectancy, it results in less inequality and better quality, more relevant use of hospitals, i.e. fewer admissions. Because that is what the practitioners are good at, because they know their patients, that is to say, to spot whether this is a patient who is in a situation that requires that you enter the hospital, either for a diagnosis or directly for a hospital. That's what the practitioners are really, really good at, because they know the patients. And that's what gives it high quality. I simply do not think there is any reason to slow down. We know that the clinics are much more expensive than if it is the case that there are practitioners that I would call cheap. After all, we have evidence that the clinics that are in supply cost 12%. more than practitioners do, and the clinics that the region itself operates actually have an additional cost of 57 per cent. So on both the medium and the long track there is an economic rationale to also ensure that we have enough family doctors, i.e. practitioners who know their patients. We also know that the task is growing. We know the demographics and know quite precisely that there is a greater and greater need for a functioning primary sector, because fortunately we live longer; we have the opportunity to do so if we do it wisely, and thus with the increasing life expectancy we also have the risk of acquiring several different disadvantages in the course of our lives. That is why it is extremely important to have a well-functioning primary sector that can take care of its patients. I think it would be responsible to set in motion more introductory positions so that young doctors will want to be in general practice and, of course, more main training courses, and that is the motivation for our proposal. Well, the lifeblood of our welfare society is that we have a good health system. So to say that we cannot finance this is simply not right, because we know that in the long run it costs more hospital admissions; it also costs people's health and health, and we simply cannot be aware of that. That is why we need to act on it and ensure that we have sufficient doctors so that people have the opportunity to consult a doctor they know. However, as I said, thank you for a good debate. It is always rewarding to hear what the positions are, but I hope that after all we are moving something. And then I look forward to having a talk about it in committee in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140542	The debate is not quite over because we have brief comments to make. First it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140547	Thank you. After all, we share the ambition that people should have the opportunity to have their own medical practitioner. But I am listening to the fact that it is very important for the rapporteur that it is such a kind of practicing doctor as we know it today, where you have your own practice, in which, moreover, a lot of money has been invested, and thus is also a little tied up. However, the rapporteur uses very little flattering words about regional clinics, for example. And there are a lot of people for whom it is so that they do not actually know their doctor because they simply do not come there. But I also agree that it is quite important for those citizens who need a doctor who are constantly in need of a doctor that it is the same that we come to; just as it is important that it is the same social and health worker or nurse who is consulted in different contexts. What prevents one from organizing work in the same way in the regions where the patient actually still has his or her own practitioner, just without having to invest in a clinic, when it is so difficult to get doctors to invest in a clinic?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140653	There is, of course, the difference that, if you are employed, you have the responsibility you now have as an employee, whereas if you are a general practitioner with your own clinic, in which you have invested, you can say that you have made a slightly larger decision, that is, than if you enter an employment relationship. I think there is a big difference or we can see that in terms of continuity. That is what is so important, and that is what we must stick to in terms of general practice. It is so important that you can have that continuity and that you can keep having the same doctor year after year. And you cannot be sure of that if it is a clinic where doctors are employees on terms of employment, because then they may want to do something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140737	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140742	But it's always a risk. I just heard that my father's doctor had decided to go to Copenhagen; so there is no more continuity in it than there is a risk that doctors will also have to do something else. However, it is basically just a question of deciding that we will have more continuity in the health sector in general with regard to health professionals, whether it is about regional clinics or whether it is about a private clinic. So, in a private clinic where there is only one doctor, the doctor can also get sick; in a private clinic where there are four doctors, can you also risk that it is one of the other doctors that you come to or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140815	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140818	Well, there are plenty of reasons why we should stick to our practice system, because we know it is one of the best. I am not aware of anyone who works much better, at least not in relation to the countries with which we usually compare; this is shown in relation to high patient satisfaction, high patient safety and, in general, in relation to good continuity. We must stick to that, and we do so with a practice system where doctors have their own external number, where they have a population of people they need to take care of in a fixed construction, and it works fine. All we have to do is ensure that there are enough doctors so that we can all have access to a general practitioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140854	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140856	Thank you. There is no time for slowness, I heard Conservatives say; I quite agree. Would it not therefore be a good idea for us to close these illegal clinics where there are over 300 health professionals running around spending some of their time? They could use that much more sensibly by helping Danish citizens and people who are legally in this country. Wouldn't it be a good idea to shut it down so they get out spending their time on something sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140921	That's a new issue, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen travels there, which I have not been aware of, and it is the case that the doctors make a doctor's vow. So if it is the case that they become aware that someone has a disease, a health problem that they have to solve, then they take care of it, regardless of the conditions under which the people concerned may be in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140941	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515140943	Absolutely, and I wouldn't dream of asking them to break that. But this can also be done in the existing legal health care system. Nobody says people can't get treatment here. But I would like to discuss this with the Conservatives later, because this is not a new problem. But we do agree that it is beneficial if the doctors we have spend their time helping people who are legally in this country and Danish citizens, when we have a medical shortage? That's why I'm bringing it up. If we didn't have a medical shortage, it was a different matter. In New Citizens, we would probably have the same attitude anyway. But now we have a medical shortage, so it was not a good idea for people to use all their energy to help Danish citizens and people who are legally in the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141018	I do enjoy, wherever I go in the world, the possibility of obtaining medical care if it is the case that something is going to be wrong, and I think it should be honoured in any case. We have tourists coming here, and our doctors are available. On the basis of this doctor's vow, which I mention, which the doctors make, they always take care of those who need medical attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141047	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141051	Thank you. Finally, the rapporteur made some rather interesting points about the fact that we should not always look at the economy, because when it came to health care and being able to treat people, there was also a long-term investment in it. These are, of course, some considerations in which I might be inclined to agree with the rapporteur. That is why I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether this is such a general view, in that it is worth investing in health care, in public welfare. Because this is not just a matter for general practitioners; it is also a matter for nurses, for hospital staff, where we know that the pressure on them is unreasonable because there has been a great deal of efficiency and rationalization in recent years, goes beyond the quality and hence the long-term investment. I would just like to ask whether this is the more general view of the rapporteur in that it is actually worth investing in prevention, even if it is perhaps some gains that can only be reaped later.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141154	Well, I certainly agree with that, sir. Peder Hvelplund in that it may well be topical and necessary to invest in our health services and in our basic welfare society. After all, we have to address what problems we are facing. We can see them. After all, we know that there will be a shortage of social and health assistants, nurses and other professional groups, as the demography looks like, at least when we look at it that way immediately. Surely we must take care of this as those responsible for the public sector. We must have the staff we need, also forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141232	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141235	Well, I am very pleased to hear that, because I fully agree that we must, of course, ensure that there are good working conditions for our employees in public welfare. It is, of course, both in health care, but also in day care institutions and schools, where it is a matter of raising both the regional and the municipal economy, so that they can fulfil the welfare tasks. So I look forward to this being a task that we will have to solve in future with the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141302	This is something we are also looking forward to in order to ensure that we have trained staff to the extent necessary in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141315	Then it's Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141322	Thank you very much. I would just like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur again for raising the matter here and to emphasise that we fully support its purpose. We fully agree that private practitioners in Denmark are absolutely crucial to our healthcare system, and we support the ambition that they should be available throughout the country. Therefore, our opposition to the proposal as it stands here is not that it costs money. Of course it will. This is because, as I tried to say in my rapporteur's speech, we have to look at the overall picture and all the specialties, even though we agree that this is an urgent problem, we have to try to take a global look at the whole area and lift it together. That is our attitude towards the area. However, we fully support the intention of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141403	Of course, I had hoped for more clear support than just a support for the purpose of the proposal, but I can see that is not the case. I hope, then, that the Radical Left will exercise its influence vis-à-vis the government in relation to the issue, because at some point an agreement on a health agreement has to be reached. That's where we're gonna get the problem back on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141429	Thank you. Is there another question from Stinus Lindgreen? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141435	Thank you. I can reassure the rapporteur that we will come to that. There are also areas where we do not agree with the government. I do not think it is a secret that their duty is not something that we think is the best idea in the world. So we keep fighting for the same agenda, and we're gonna do our part of the job.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141453	I am delighted that we also share a position on duty, because I would actually describe it as directly harmful to medical education if it is the case that coercion begins. It is the case that medical training is quite long and there are actually courses in medical training in advance where young people do not always have their own place in the country. And if it is the case that one builds further on at a time in the lives of young doctors, where they may be setting up a family or having a spouse and have settled somewhere, it is inappropriate and directly harmful, I think, for medical education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141532	Thank you. We thank Per Larsen. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Elderly and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200515141545	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 19 May at 1 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
