ParlaMint-DK_20200505130011	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill no. L 186 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Danish Training for Adult Aliens and Others) Bill No. L 187 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Bill No. L 188 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Bill No. L 189 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners, the law on integration and various other laws. return and clarification of the scope of entry bans covered by the Broadcast Directive, etc.). Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG), Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Jens Rohde (RV), Halime Oguz (SF), Søren Søndergaard (EL) and Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF): Request no. F 59 (What can the government say about the implications for the rule of law and fundamental rights in the EU Member States, including in Hungary, in relation to the legislation adopted for dealing with covid-19, and what dialogue the government has had with, for example, Hungary on possible consequences for minorities, in particular for people with disabilities, which directly or indirectly result from the Emergency Law adopted by Hungary in March 2020?). Anne Paulin (S), Carsten Kissmeyer (V), Morten Messersschmidt (DF), Ruben Kidde (RV), Signe Munk (SF), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Orla Østerby (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Alex Vanopslagh (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG): Request no. F 60 (What can the Minister say about the Government's future energy policy initiatives in the light of the energy policy statement?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing, Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF), who has been on leave, I have been informed that from 4 May 2020 she will be able to meet again in Tinget. Anna Brændemoses (SF) as a temporary member of the Folketing has hereby ceased from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130249	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130323	Before we start the debate, I should like to point out that the Bureau has decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. For the purpose of drawing up the minutes, it is very important that you do not start talking until the red ring on the microphone lights up. As usual, you will be able to see your remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The first is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130402	Thank you. First of all, congratulations to the many new Danes whom we welcome today. It's a big decision to take a new country, but you have. You have learned the language, put yourself into our history and culture, contributed to the labour market and shown that you want to be Danish. Because of the covid-19 we are in a special situation where handshakes are suspended, but when all one day again becomes normal, handshakes continue to become part of the constitutional ceremonies. Congratulations to those of you who are now getting citizenship. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130432	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130438	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would like to acknowledge that the Socialists now support the temporary suspension of the handshake requirement, but I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether he is willing to do so as well as to make it more permanent. For now we can expect, at least there will be a long period when there will be no use of handshakes, and it is possible that it will never be used in the same way again. Culture is dynamic, so why not just abolish it and then you can always see whether it needs to be introduced again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130512	First of all, thank you for the receipt. In addition, however, I think I can sense a hope that our culture will now have to change as a result of this crisis. I don't want that. I have a hope that at some point we will solve this challenge with a vaccine or other and that we will then be able to return to everyday life as we know it. It has been customary in Denmark for centuries that we shake hands as a gesture when we greet each other. I think that is a perfectly natural way of greeting each other and also holding a ceremony in connection with becoming something as big as a Danish citizen. That's why I think it's perfectly natural that this is temporary and that we return to normal again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130554	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130557	Now I can inform the rapporteur that it is also natural for me to greet with a handshake. I am also looking forward to being able to do so again one day, but I can see that this is not the case for all the citizens of this country, and what I am wondering is that it should make a difference in relation to whether you are a recognised national in this country. Surely we can respect the fact that there are other ways of greeting, especially in view of the fact that we are all now helping to change culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130623	But the core of this is: What is it that establishes to be Danish? And that's a way to live, it's a way to see other people equally. These are traditions, customs, a common love for Denmark, for our culture. And that's the handshake part of it. In this context, it is also a symbol; a way we then greet each other. It's natural for us. If you want to be Danish and that is what you want to do when you want to be a Danish citizen, then I also think it must be natural for someone to say hello in that way. And I don't understand why it has to be made such a weird thing. And I would also like to remind you that when the handshake becomes a problem, it is because there are some who believe that, from what I do not know, they must not shake hands with people of the opposite sex. I think that is a strange attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130714	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130716	Thank you. So we are, of course, some who have seen with great pleasure that the Social Democrats have changed course from the totally disastrous course of foreign policy, which was in the 1990s and in much of the 00s and now to something that is more sensible. But how can the Social Democratic Party put forward a law with 1,861 new citizens • so many and in such a short time? And we must expect a new law to come back in the autumn. It is a huge number, and so without having to go through the ceremony, where one has a certain opportunity to check that they have taken over or agree to subject themselves to some Danish cultural standards that are essential, namely the handshake. Actually, I'm pretty shaken up. I am also appalled by the very brief speech by the rapporteur. It seems that what we are doing in this Chamber today is not essential at all. I was only able to press for a brief comment because Enhedslisten asked a question. I was about to fall out of the chair because one could talk so briefly about something that is so essential, so that we give so many people and, in my opinion, too many citizenships at once.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130830	Well, I think the central point here is that the people we are now turning into citizens are not to blame for the health crisis we are facing. And for many of them, including the largest group, which is of course from Britain, it can have major and difficult consequences for their privacy, when they have done everything they could to meet the strict requirements of becoming a Danish citizen and who must be strict in order to become a Danish citizen. So when there is a crisis in which they have no blame and which would prevent them from becoming Danish citizens indefinitely, it is our view that now that we are in an extraordinary situation which we are trying to deal with in all possible contexts, we are doing so in this context too by suspending this rule temporarily. And then we'll get back to it, hopefully when everything gets back to normal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130923	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505130925	It is not, of course, a question of whether they are without blame for the fact that there is corona at the moment. It is, of course, a question of the Social Democrats obviously not interested in whether some of them are given citizenship on this law, who are not willing to be subject to Danish cultural standards, where one should be able to shake hands with someone who is not of the same religion as oneself and may be of the opposite sex. And apparently the Social Democratic Party doesn't care about that. And by the way, there are no ex-Britishs who die from having to wait for citizenship. It's not dangerous. There is, in fact, dual citizenship today, which has been given the opportunity, unfortunately. So there's nothing about being sent away or expelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131010	No, it is not right to say that it is a question of us indifferent to whether some people will not shake hands. If there are those on this bill who do not want to shake hands with others, or who in other ways have values or standards that are so far removed from those considered by the majority population as theirs, then they shouldn't be standing here. And I cannot guarantee that there is not one on this list that will not shake hands or that on some of the previous legislative proposals that have been, there has not been a single one, but that may have done so anyway and suppressed it one time, but basically, deep down, there have been positions that were different. However, I think it is out of proportion to prevent all these people from being very different groups from different countries who have no problem handing over a Danish citizenship when they have done everything they could to live up to what we expect of them, but are prevented from doing so because of a health crisis in which they have no part.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131106	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131109	Thank you. I am glad to hear that the rapporteur and the Social Democrats praise the importance of the handshake as a cornerstone of Danish culture and, as the rapporteur himself said, unfortunately sometimes people come here who refuse to shake hands, for example. To a woman. That is why I do not understand why it should be suspended now. Why not wait until autumn and say that if you still can't shake hands in the autumn, we can look at suspending it? After all, we are already asking Danes to wait with operations, with driving licences and with exams. Wouldn't it be fair enough to say, listen, we're gonna kick this corner and we're gonna look at it in the fall? Why would the handshake be suspended even now, if it is so important part of the ceremony?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131151	I think the key here is the proportions. The handshake ceremony is still gone a relatively new size. We have here a large group of people in which the largest group is from Britain, Pakistan, Germany, Poland, Ukraine, the United States, India, Russia and Turkey; in other words, a large group of people. The largest of them are Britons who have done everything they could to live up to the expectations we have of a Danish citizen. They would not be able to become Danish citizens indefinitely if we did not now suspend the rule of handshake, and that is why we are doing it. It is a balance of proportions and of what we would get out of doing the opposite. We think they have done what they could, and they are without blame for the situation we are currently in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131240	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131242	The previous draft law says that we have to shake hands within two years, so if we were to make an amendment which we intend to do, which says that we would like to look at the time in the autumn, they would have some kind of expectation that there would be clarification at that time either for health reasons or for political reasons; so it would not be indefinitely. So if I may ask again: when we ask the Danes to wait for so many things in Danish society, would it not be fair to ask these people to wait just a tiny bit longer? I agree that hopefully the vast majority will be happy to shake hands, but there may be some who refuse to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131323	I think that the parallel to what we are asking the people to wait for from different things is a bit misleading in this context. Because where we are asking the population to wait for some things is where there is a need to avoid the spread of the epidemic or to avoid congestion, which means that you cannot keep up with the hospitals and so on. But the exception we are making here is an exception which has no economic consequences for us, and there is no one who, what to say, has to pay a bill for us doing this. This is something we are doing to meet the people who have lived up to the expectations we had of them, but who are unable to become citizens for external reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131408	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131412	I think this whole exchange is revealing Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's view of the very concept of citizenship, and so I would like to ask: Does Mr. Rasmus Stoklund the right of birth as a gift you can get, or is it a right you have? It is absolutely essential to understand where the Social Democrats are in this debate that we know whether it is a gift, that is, something that the Danish people owe to the people concerned, or it is something that they should earn. As far as I am concerned, no one can say that you have the right to Danish citizenship. It is something that you get as the finest gesture the Danish people can show through their elected representatives here at Christiansborg, but it sounds almost as if Mr. Rasmus Stoklund and the Social Democratic Party think that this is something the Danish people owe these people, since we must now suspend the rights on which we would like to give the impression that we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131513	Well, then, sir. Morten Messerschmidt didn't get me right. I agree with the basics, namely that it is a gift, but at the same time it is the case that we have arranged the legislation in such a way that we have to meet objective criteria, because that is how we have to do it, because we cannot deal with every single individual who comes here in Parliament. Some objective criteria are met. These people have. We therefore believe that, while we are in this crisis, which we do not know how long it will take, they will be able to have the handshake suspended during the constitutional ceremonies for so long. But what is at the heart of this is that they live up to everything else and that we have some very strict requirements to get citizenship, because that is the only way we as a nation can control how our nation develops and who that nation is constituted by: who it is made up of, what individuals we welcome in it. There I am confident that, on the basis of the rather strict criteria that we have in terms of language, culture, history, employment, etc., we have sorted out those who have not deserved to become Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131626	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131627	To some extent, of course, this is reassuring. I have also heard Mr. Rasmus Stoklund say that Britain is the country most from, and that is true. If you do such a track and find, you can see that there are 5 from Britain. The funny thing is, if you search Mohammed, there's 29. Then it can be said that if we look at the names here, we do not get a more truthful picture of what they really are for some types, sir. Rasmus Stoklund gives Danish citizenship here? I mean, I guess it's not a core British name to be named after the Prophet in Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131708	I don't know how sir. Morten Messerschmidt has done his search, but as far as I can tell, 218 Britons are now becoming citizens. If we take top three, it's 126 Pakistanis and 109 Germans. I am confident that the British and Germans and Pakistanis, who are now top three, have lived up to everything we expect from them and therefore can now become citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131741	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131745	Thank you so much. I would also like to follow up on what my fellow rapporteurs have been asking about. As can be seen from the text itself, it is not only the new foreigners who are to be granted citizenship that are to be covered by this relaxation; it is also all those who were in the bill of December and who have not yet been granted citizenship because these constitutional ceremonies have been postponed. So we're going to move up to 6,000 people if you add up the two numbers. Like sir. Morten Messerschmidt did before, I also have to follow up on this. Does the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party really believe that this is something that is so urgent that it cannot wait, so that these people are entitled to Danish citizenship, so that we cannot wait until we are through this corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505131849	As far as I'm concerned, it's 1,861 people we're turning into Danish citizens. How many people were on the previous proposal, I dare not say that figure I do not have here. But it is true that this also applies to those who were on the previous draft law. My approach to this is that and it may be that this is where we disagree that the important thing, the fundamental thing and the substance of it is that you have lived up to all the expectations we have of people in terms of language, culture, history, support, that you have taken Denmark to heart. So when we are in the middle of a health crisis, where we have to behave differently in every possible way than we would normally do, I think this is a pragmatic solution for those people who have a desire to become Danish, who have made a great deal of effort over many years in order to be able to do so, and who will of course have a uncertainty as to when they could be if we did not suspend this requirement for handshakes temporarily. I think this is a pragmatic solution to this challenge and I do not think it is as dangerous as it is being done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132007	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132009	In other words, there should be no doubt that we believe that too many citizenships are being distributed. We voted against the last legislative proposal, and I can also quickly reveal that we are going to vote against this, L 180. However, I do not think the rapporteur really answers the question. The rapporteur himself says that there are some people here who may have waited many years for this, but there are also, as the rapporteur for the Conservatives said before, many Danes who have to wait for operations and everything else, and yet the Socialist rapporteur thinks that it is okay to rush through these things, that these people are apparently entitled to have Danish citizenship right now and here, in the middle of a Corona crisis, instead of saying: we are now postponing it until we can comply with the rules that currently exist and do not have to relax them. Will the rapporteur not confirm that the rapporteur is so right and that, if the rapporteur thinks it is so urgent that these people are entitled to do so, since this is the way things are rushed through?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132111	I do not think it is fair to make these comparisons, for example. operations, as the rapporteur does. It would be another matter if this were to happen at the expense of a lot of Danes who were somehow put back in the public administration or in something that they needed help with, but that is not the case. This is a slight adjustment we're making. We are temporarily suspending this rule of handshake when the world will, hopefully, return to normal again, and I think that is a pragmatic way of dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132148	Thank you. Now there are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur for the Social Democrat Party. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132157	Thank you for that, President. Getting Danish citizenship is a great privilege. It's not a dish, it's a gift you get from the Danish people. And when one is given a privilege, it is appropriate to say congratulations, so I will also do so here today, namely congratulations to all of you who have taken Denmark to you, to you who want Denmark, and to you who are now to be Danish citizens. But this gift isn't given without making a number of conditions. Because we make and we have to make tough demands on those who will be able to call themselves Danish. In the Left we regard it as natural, as fair, indeed as obvious, that if you want to be part of that community, you must also accept and respect the values of the community - the Danish values. Here in Denmark we have government, here in Denmark we have freedom of expression, here we have to say what we want, we can draw who we want, here in Denmark we have equality, here in Denmark men and women are equal, and that is why you have to shake the mayor's hand, whether the mayor's name is Pernille or Per. At any rate, this has been the case, but the Socialists are now going to change it, because this law abolishes the requirement for the mayor to be handed over when he takes part in a constitutional ceremony, and the abolition is not even tied up with the corona crisis, no, in fact, this bill means that even if the health authorities change the recommendation in a moment, the persons involved can still refuse to press the mayor on their fist and still become Danish citizens. I have to be honest and say that it disappoints us in the Left, our position on the general citizenship law is known, we are in favour of it, but I can also just say that we are going to table an amendment to maintain the handshake requirement. I cannot understand why the Social Democratic Party does not want to see whether a solution can be found or, at least, wait until the autumn and see what the authorities' recommendation is there. At least that is what we in the Left think should be done. We think this because we believe that greeting the local mayor is an expression of respect for Denmark and the Danish values. The handshake is the most common way of greeting, and when you receive the gift of Danish citizenship, you must shake hands with the mayor regardless of the mayor's gender. The whole point of the constitutional ceremonies and the reason why we introduced them at the time is to show that you want to respect and comply with Danish legislation and that you have taken the Danish set of values into account, not least equality. And for that reason handshake is as central a requirement to acquire citizenship as it is to be self-supporting or to speak Danish, and I have not yet heard • and this should not serve as inspiration • Socialists say that they will dispense with demands for Danish or self-reliance, although right now there are a lot of people who are having difficulty receiving Danish education and even though there are many who are losing their jobs. I would like to stress that, of course, I have extreme sympathy for those people for whom this might mean that it will have to be a little longer before they can retrieve the red beet passport from the municipality. Of course. But we are surprised that one day the government is making thousands of Danes wait for everything from important operations in hospitals to schooling to family visits, while the next day it is said that the only thing that can't wait in this kingdom is the granting of citizenship. Not even in the autumn will you wait and see the time. This is not a good balance, and that is why this proposal needs to be seen in a wider context, and it is a context in which the Social Democrats' position on the handshake requirement has blown from the very beginning. The Social Democratic Party did not support the request from the outset, did not vote for it, and the Minister has categorically refused to say that he is actually in favour of the demand after he has sat down in the backseat of the ministerial cars until the Prime Minister appears on 6 March, after which the Social Democrats suddenly say that of course we must shake hands. These were new tones, and we were delighted about that, but it did not last more than two months either, because now the Socialists have given in to the pressure of the extreme left and have relaxed Denmark's foreign policy again. We think this is a pity, and it is part of the story of the Socialists who, piece by piece, are in the process of undermining the firm and tight immigration policy that is otherwise needed. That is a pity, and that is why I cannot do that from the floor of the Parliament, but I can do that here from my own seat appeal to the Socialists to support the amendment we are going to table, which is about maintaining the handshake requirement and at least wait until later to see how the recommendations of the authorities are developing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132701	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132707	Thank you, President. I remember the latest bill on citizenship which we were discussing here; then Mr. Morten Dahlin Grundtvig's verses about the Danishness from the people: to a people they all hear...... etc. And now, with Mr. Knox... Morten Dahlin goes on to this new line, you have to understand a good line of tabling amendments and threatening and challenging the government.I would like to quote the first verse: "Following everything now must be/trind about land from top to toe,/something new that is going on,/the even crazies can understand;" Now I'm so crazy who just wants to know if Mr. So Morten Dahlin's line also means that now that the Socialist majority has voted Mr Dahlin's. Morten Dahlin's amendments are down, and we can also count on the Left, as in the Danish People's Party, to vote against the final law of citizenship. We're a lot of freaks who want to know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132802	I shall start by saying that I do not understand Mr. Morten Messerschmidt like a freak. I know that people in the Danish People's Party have had some challenges with the categorizing of people as crazies, and I am not going to talk myself into that discussion. I have extreme respect for sir. Morten Messerschmidt and is also pleased that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt remembers my speech from the last reading we had of the proposal for a law on citizenship. So, we are going to table an amendment to maintain the demand for handshake, but as I also said in my speech, we have not once voted in the 150-year history of the Left against the draft law on the communication of citizenship, nor are we going to do so this time. But I would now like to say that I am actually more optimistic than Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. I am not convinced that the government cannot support our amendments, because I think that we have argued objectively and sensibly for it, and I am convinced that when one hears such arguments, the Minister and the government will of course reconsider their position and support our amendments in broad cooperation and in the spirit of common sense. So I am in favour, and I am convinced that the Minister will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132907	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132909	I am absolutely convinced that Mr. Morten Dahlin has excellent and convincing arguments. The problem is just and I have experienced it many times myself that when you sit before the Socialist People's Party, Enhedslisten, Radicals and the fragment that was once the Alternative, it is not enough to have good arguments. That's exactly what the government sees every day. After all, there are a great many members of this government who are actually quite cleverly made, but yet come out with bad and stupid decisions every day because these are the people and parties with which they must sit and negotiate. That is why it is perhaps not too much to ask that the Left also take the consequences of the parliamentary situation we have, so that if the amendment which I think I can say that the DF will support does not pass through, of course it will vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505132958	Now I was told before that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, I didn't see him as a lunatic, but now Mr. Morten Messerschmidt saw that there were reasonable members of the government, and that must stand for Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's own bill. No, joke aside, of course there is. I have noted that the current Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has at some point said that he believes that the important immigration policy should be made widely across the middle, and I actually trust the current Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration so much that I naturally count on him to stand by his words and therefore support the amendment that I can hear the Danish People's Party also support and, as I heard before, the Conservatives say that they also had plans to put it together. And so I have the expectation that the Minister will live up to his words and conduct foreign policy across the middle, rather than listening to the extreme left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133045	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133048	Sir. In my opinion, Morten Dahlin calls it a bit polemical, perhaps a relaxing alien policy, that we are now making this suspension. I just think it might be interesting to hear about sir. Morten Dahlin cannot confirm that this suspension will probably not mean that there is one more person who gets citizenship than there would otherwise have been. In addition, Mr. Morten Dahlin, that nothing is said about the covid-19, but it's directly in the bill. I would also like to say that when Mr. Morten Dahlin says that greeting with a handshake is an expression of general respect for the person you meet, I am in complete agreement, but when I meet Mr Dahlin... Morten Dahlin at the moment, we do not greet with a handshake either. That doesn't mean I've had less respect for sir. Morten Dahlin for that reason. That is because we are in the midst of a health crisis and we are not at present greeting each other with a handshake. We are following the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority, and it does not hurt any Danes that we temporarily suspend this rule, namely until the crisis is over. That's the difference between this and the example that's constantly being drawn up by comparing it with waiting times at the hospital, which I don't think is relevant at all in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133208	To answer Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's question I must say: I do not know. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund asks whether this will mean that more people will have citizenship or that fewer will have citizenship. I don't know, because we don't know who wanted to shake hands or who didn't want to shake hands. That's what Social Democrats think you shouldn't find out. So says Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, that covid-19 is mentioned in the bill. Yes, yes, sir. Rasmus Stoklund's party is suggesting that the people who are on this bill and for those who are on the latest bill, but who have not been able to attend a constitutional ceremony, throughout the period they have to go to a constitutional ceremony, may refuse to shake hands with the mayor. This means that in 1 year and 11 months, because you have 2 years, you will be able to refuse to shake hands with your mayor and yet be rewarded with Danish citizenship. Not even on this point will the Social Democratic Party meet us or at least it does not sound that way to the rapporteur. I would just like to express once again the hope that the Social Democrats will keep their word and make a broad and sensible policy on foreigners across the centre, vote in favour of our amendments and say that we will have to look at it later. So that would be common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133308	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund abates to speak. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133316	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Morten Dahlin for the speech. I just want to start by saying that I don't feel any urge to ask me, sir. Morten Dahlin's assessment of whether I'm crazy or not. We can always do that at another time. He kind of made himself a judge of that right now. But now Mr. Morten Dahlin, in his rapporteur's speech, said that this was about respect. That is why I would just like to hear: now we have a group of citizens for whom we set a number of conditions, some criteria they have to meet, and if they meet them, they are entitled to a Danish citizenship. At least that's what we're saying to them. Then you can call it a gift or not, but we do set criteria that we say they must meet. In this case, however, we are asking some citizens to meet certain criteria, and then we are adopting a law that we know they have no way of complying with. Is it not a lack of respect that we are adopting a law that we know the citizens cannot comply with? They don't have the opportunity to shake hands as it is right now. It's a right we take away from them. Is it not a lack of respect to adopt legislation that citizens cannot comply with?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133429	Thank you to the questioner for that question. The questioner says that a number of demands must be met in order to become a Danish citizen, and the questioner is absolutely right. There is a requirement that one should speak Danish; there is a requirement that one should not have committed serious crime; there is a requirement that one should be self-supporting; and there is a requirement that one should shake hands with the local mayor, whether the mayor's name is Pernille or Pernille. We think these are reasonable demands, and therefore we simply cannot understand this need to suspend them. For the next thing you know, it's coming from Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund's party is that they say: there are also more foreigners who have become unemployed, so let us suspend the employment requirement; there are also more who have difficulty learning Danish because the language schools have been closed, so let us suspend the Danish requirement. Anyway, nobody in this room is saying that we have to do it now, and so I am just appealing once again to the party of the questioner, although it is not the party of the questioner, I appeal to the government to choose the sensible solution and to pursue a broadly anchored immigration policy here in the Folketing together with the Left and the other blue parties. That would suit the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133535	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133536	Now Mr. Morten Dahlin has a number of requirements that citizens must meet in order to obtain Danish citizenship, including the need to shake hands with the mayor, whether the mayor's name is Pernille or Pernille. But now it's the case that these citizens cannot shake hands with the mayor, whether the mayor's name is Pernille or Pernille, because we're not shaking hands right now. So how can we ask citizens to meet a requirement that is impossible to meet? In other words, despite the tight immigration legislation in Denmark, it is a new break to say that we are now making demands which it is impossible to meet. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is unreasonable to make demands that cannot be met?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133616	No, I think I have a different perspective than the questioner. We think it is very early that the government has chosen to say that we should just suspend this demand. One day the government says: Thousands of Danes have to wait for important health care operations, thousands of schoolchildren have to wait for primary school education, thousands of Danes have to wait to visit their family. The only thing that can't wait in this kingdom is the granting of citizenship. This is a wrong balance and that is why we are just appealing to the government to support our amendments and then we can look at this later. That would be common sense, it would represent the right balance, and I just hope that when the Minister is about to take the floor and the Minister does not, because he speaks from his own place, he says that he is actually willing to listen to what is being said widely in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133704	Thank you. Finally, an additional brief remark was made, and it is from Mr Seligman. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133710	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. When I rise to ask a question, it is because I think a little that Mr. Morten Dahlin compares apples and pears or makes fruit salad out of it, I would almost say, in that way to understand that it is probably not fair and there I would like to take Mr Dahlin. Peder Hvelplund's remark about this is to compare these things with each other. Here we are in a situation where there are some citizens who cannot possibly shake hands, and they have, as Mr. Morten Dahlin himself has mentioned, met really, very many other demands, and now they are in a situation where they should have become Danish citizens, but it has been postponed and postponed. It is not that they have failed to meet the other requirements. We have made an extra demand for these new Danish citizens to shake hands, and that is a fine thing, because I agree with Mr Beazley. Morten Dahlin in that it is a great honour and a gift to be allowed to become a Danish citizen. But I would like to ask: can it really be true that, in the view of the Left, it should be postponed for two years?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133817	Thank you. Remember to talk into the microphone. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133819	Now I'm gonna be really happy. I hear the radical rapporteur say that it is good that we have to shake hands in order to obtain Danish citizenship. In other words, the Radical Left has changed policy and now supports the handshake requirement in general. Welcome! I think that is a sensible view to take, and I am only glad that you do. Then the rapporteur says that we are postponing and postponing and that it will be in two years' time, but I think I said very clearly in my speech that we are demanding to maintain the handshake requirement now, and in the next legislative proposal it must either be rewritten or not, and then we must discuss it at that time, depending on the situation. But, as in all other areas, the government ministers are saying: we cannot give a date, we cannot come up with a plan, etc. Then it's weird that the only place you can do it is in this area. But I am glad that the Radicals have now come to the side of reason on this issue. And to the second question, I can just say: No, and I never said or said that they should.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133913	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133915	I would just like to say that I am not really getting an answer. Sir. Morten Dahlin keeps comparing some conditions where we have health care professionals placed in a situation so that they can take care of the rest of the population, if we get the corona virus, with this situation where some people have to be Danish citizens. I would like to follow up on this question because I do not think it is fair to compare the two things with each other. How can the Left compare the situation of health authorities and the question of becoming a Danish citizen with each other? Why do you compare these two things?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505133957	If I need another comparison, which may make more sense to the radical rapporteur, I would rather compare it with the demand we make to be Danish or self-supporting. Now the rapporteur said before that it is some sort of additional requirement, but in the Left world it is the same to demand that one should take part in a constitutional ceremony and shake hands with the local representative, who is demanding that one be able to speak Danish or be self-sufficient. And there's no government at least, as I've heard so far, that speaks for suspending some of the other demands. That is why I would just like to warn against going down that track exactly with this demand, because then, as the radical rapporteur is now doing, we will be making an extra demand or a special demand. For us, it is part of the package, just like all the other demands we make.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505134041	Thank you. Then there are no more brief remarks in this round. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is for the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505134051	Thank you for the floor. The Committee on Bodily Rights is not the most popular committee to sit on. That's usually not where you make a career as a politician. I have been told that there are some parties where you ask the native rights rapporteur: what have you done wrong since you have been placed there? But that is quite unreasonable, because the Committee on the Rights of the Child is in fact the most important of the Folketing, although there is indeed much and boring rye bread work associated with the rapporteur's post. But it is the work that is most important for the future of our country. The laws we are discussing in the Committee on Bodily Rights have consequences that go far into the coming centuries. It is they who can decide whether the Danish people and thus Denmark exist in 200 years, in 100 years or in just 50 years. The consequences of the birthright laws live longer than a Storebælt Bridge stands, but the consequences of the birthright laws can be devastating and not as beautiful as a Storebælt Bridge: The birthright laws can be the ones that decide whether the Danish people can agree to build a Storebælt Bridge and afford it. The Danish people are in themselves the basis for the things we have and do in Denmark. Without the Danish people no Denmark, no freedom, no democracy, and the fate of the Danish people depends on the citizenship laws. The citizenship is the last and most important line of defence of the Danish people. We must welcome those who really want and can become Danish, but we must only do so at a few and at a slow pace, otherwise we will dissolve the Danish people, and we owe it to our children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren to defend the Danish people, so that they also have a chance to live in freedom, democracy and prosperity. And perhaps in the future agree to build impressive buildings similar to the Great Belt Bridge instead of falling apart in parallel societies that no bridges can unite. In the near past, too many citizenships have been given to people who do not want or can become Danish. First of all, it concerns a large number of people from the Middle East and Asia with Muslim backgrounds who should never have had Danish citizenship. It was a fatal mistake that we are going to suffer for many years. In the Danish People's Party, we have voted against the vast majority of laws on citizenship that the party has been presented with, and we have repeatedly tightened the requirements for citizenship. This has significantly improved the situation. In the past, citizenship was practically granted without any counterclaims, but today, after all, a number of demands have to be met which make it much more likely that those who receive citizenship have actually become Danish or want to become so. But we're not in the finish line. Too many people still get citizenship, and the rules are not tough enough. We in the Danish People's Party believe that the granting of citizenship should be restricted to people who want to assimilate themselves in every way to people who marry a Dane and demand that people have lived here for 20 years before citizenship can be discussed. At the same time, the very drafting of the laws must be changed so that a distinction is made between Western and non-Western, and we must be able to see what religion people have and we must vote separately on the various groups. Nor should more than 1,000 citizenships be granted each year. On this law there are 1,861 people who acquire citizenship, and this is only one of two laws in 2019. We are therefore voting against L 180. However, we recognise that progress has been made in this area. It has been good that the rules have been tightened up and that has led to great improvements. Most recently, the new constitutional ceremony of handshaking has come in. It is a good system of handshake because it allows applicants for citizenship to show that they are able to conform to Danish cultural standards by touching a person who has a different belief and possibly a different sex. Of course, people who do not want it should not have citizenship in Denmark. We therefore believe that it is wrong for this law to grant citizenship without handshaking. Instead, things should be suspended and wait until the handshake can be implemented. The Danish People's Party therefore wishes to table an amendment to the law, to suspend the award and only resume when it is able to carry out the handshake ceremonies. But overall, the Danish People's Party votes against L 180. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505134553	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mrs Halime Oguz of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505134557	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur say that it was a fatal mistake for people with a Muslim background to have acquired citizenship. This shook me a little, because I thought that the most important thing was that people were integrated, upholding the rule of law, freedom of expression and gender equality. I myself have a Muslim background and sit here in a Danish parliament fighting for the very same values. I would like to ask the rapporteur: was it a mistake for me to have citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505134632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505134634	I cannot comment on the rapporteur personally, of course not. But it is a huge mistake that a large group of Muslims have acquired citizenship. It is a huge mistake because Islam is a completely different ideology. Of course, there are individual individuals who may differ from the main ideology and thus have some other views, but it is very, very difficult. There may be peer pressure, and the more people who have an ideology that goes completely across the Danish, the harder it is, of course, for the individual individuals who want to separate, actually to do so. That is why it has been a huge mistake and it is certainly something that we must stop with. That's what we want. We do not want more people to get citizenship, especially not from the Muslim culture, even though there are individual individuals who can definitely break with what they are born into.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505134731	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505134733	I just want to correct the rapporteur: Islam is not just an ideology, Islam is a belief. It is an ideology for some, but a belief for most people. Another thing that I note that the Danish People's Party is very concerned about is the handshake requirement. Nor can I understand that anyone is opposed to that demand. But I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether it is seriously believed that it can sort out Islamists. I wonder if an Islamist in the service of a larger cause would find a way to shake hands to subsequently repent of the religious-political beliefs that he or she has, knowing that he or she will thereby come into possession of the red beet-colored passport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505134826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505134828	Islam differs from Christianity by also having a political side, thereby making it much more ideological than Christianity, on which we have as a majority religion in Denmark and on which the entire Danish culture is based. Of course, the handshake cannot sort out Islamists. That's right. They can always cheat through, bite their irritation, and then do the handshake anyway. That's right. But it certainly has a meaning, in that it shows everyone, including the Danish people, that we are making sensible demands on those who come here. But it is quite true that it is not enough. That is also one of the reasons why we cannot support this bill, because there are so many other things that we also have to do to make sure that we only give it to those who actually want to be assimilated in Danish culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505134923	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505134925	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur cuts all Muslims in one comb and says they are the same; all Christians are the same, all Muslims are the same, all Jews are the same. I think it is very violent to generalise to such an extent. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur: can the rapporteur, yes, how can I almost put it, not recognise that there are actually quite a lot of Muslims who are making a lot of effort to keep Danish society going?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135008	I pointed out precisely that there are individuals who can easily break with the culture or ideology into which they were born. So it is not true that I have said that everyone is the same. Of course they are not. And of course you can recognise that there are people who belong to the Muslim religion who have work in Denmark and pay taxes etc. That's just not what I'm talking about here. Moreover, there is now also an over-representation of non-western immigrants among those who do not have jobs. But what I am talking about is whether you can take Denmark further culturally. Can you build on everything Denmark already consists of when you have a cultural background that contradicts everything Denmark stands for, i.e. where you don't think that men and women are worth the same amount and where you can't decide for yourself which religion you want to belong to, etc. That's where the problem is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135112	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135114	Thank you. We have had visionary kings over time, who have built cities such as Christiansfeld, Fredericia and other cities, and who have done so by giving way to others with other religions in order to have their culture added and to have their values added to our society. And that is the society that we have today. It is a society based on many different cultures at once and several different religions. That is why I think it is a very violent generalisation. I understand from the rapporteur that that is not all, because there are a few exceptions. But I really want to ask the rapporteur again: can it really be true that the position of the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party is that we should not recognise and respect the fact that these many people who contribute to Danish society every day, whether they do it as cleaning people or in all sorts of other functions, are part of Danish society and that they are doing a great deal of work for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135218	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135219	I find it strange that the rapporteur on the Radical Left will not recognise that Denmark is based on a Danish tradition, a Christian tradition. We're not building on a multicultural tradition. It is true that strangers have come here and also people with foreign religions, but it's down in the amount of the blood. What we have seen in the 1980s and 1990s is quite different; it is a migration, and it cannot be compared at all. At the same time, they have a background which is quite different and much more dangerous to a Western society than, for example, to the United States. the Huguenots or Jews we have received in the course of history. So these are two things that cannot be compared at all. And what we are standing today is to be stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135315	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135320	Thank you. I have to say that I think it is absolutely unheard of to stand and listen to the fact that it is a mistake to give citizenship to citizens who are Muslims, and I just want to say that Mrs Halime Oguz's right to her citizenship, her right to sit here in the Folketing, does not depend on a personal assessment by Mrs Marie Krarup. Of course she's right. When we set the criteria for obtaining citizenship, we draw up a list of requirements that citizens must meet, and if they meet them, it does not matter whether they believe in one thing or the other. Besides, what they eat for dinner, who they prefer to talk to or sleep with, has nothing to do with it. It has nothing to do with personality, and so it has nothing to do with faith. I think it is quite incomprehensible that in a discussion about respect we are saying that they should show respect and listen to the fact that it should be a mistake that hundreds of thousands of citizens here in Denmark are citizens because they have a certain belief. I simply cannot understand it, and I cannot understand, moreover, how Mrs Marie Krarup can say that it is a mistake to give them citizenship, but that there are some exceptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135442	I understand that the rapporteur cannot understand this, because the rapporteur has an entirely different ideology from that of myself here, who has a conservative conviction that we have an obligation to carry Denmark forward in a reasonably sound constitution, rather than believing in all sorts of strange abstract ideas, as I know the Socialists do. In fact, however, it depends on a personal assessment of who should have citizenship. That is exactly what it does, because citizenship is given by voting in the Folketing, where each member of parliament votes according to his or her beliefs. So that is exactly what is crucial here, and that is actually what we want to do as close as possible by dividing the laws into sub-groups, so that we should not just vote for 1,861 people and bang at once, but that we could say that we should vote for those who come from England, those who come from Germany, those who come from Egypt, and then possibly sub-divide them into Christian refugees from Egypt, Muslim refugees from Egypt, etc. That would make sense, because it is actually the case that our constitution is intertwined. It is precisely a personal assessment that is involved in the granting of citizenship rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135556	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135558	It is a little paradoxical to listen to Mrs Marie Krarup, who has just relied on the Christian belief that it is I who suffers from believing in abstract ideas, because if there is any religion, it is surely a belief in some abstract ideas. I would say to Mrs Krarup that what I believe in is human rights, equality, justice, and there is nothing fair about starting to discriminate against people according to what they believe in. People can be judged by their actions, not by what they believe in. In this sense, Mrs Krarup is absolutely right that we have a very different starting point and that we believe in something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135645	Believing in human rights, equality and justice is, in my opinion, an absolute expression of an abstract ideology and not an expression of the fact that one is, of course, shaped by the history and upbringing and the past in which one is planted. That is what we believe to be absolutely essential. One cannot say that one has the right to come to Denmark and think that the rest of us should then be able to believe that they can carry on what we have built up over generations. You can't do that. That's common sense. But I know that when you sign all the abstract ideologies that Enhedslisten does, you have a really hard time understanding common sense. But we must take into account the cultural background, the religious background, and it is more difficult, more difficult, for people who come with a Muslim background to lead, for example. a Danish democracy with equal value further into the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135748	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505135757	Thank you. First a great congratulations to the many new Danish citizens. I would like to congratulate you, the individual new citizen. It is crucial and necessary that we get some good, talented people to Denmark. Each of you has had to go through a series of tests to get here, and it should not be easy to become a Danish citizen and have the right to vote. Nevertheless, it has been particularly difficult this year. The Corona crisis has made it even more difficult for you. You have had to wait extra long to become Danish citizens and in uncertainty. The challenge has been that after taking a number of other tests and fulfilling a series of demands, you have not been able to shake hands with the mayor at a constitutional ceremony... a handshake, a completely symbolic act, has been destroying it all. I am therefore pleased that, after a long period of pressure and many writings back and forth, the government has agreed to grant exemptions from the handshake. You have all chosen to become Danish citizens; you are well integrated; you are in employment; you stay away from crime; you have passed a citizenship test; and you have learned Danish. This shows that you have become Danish and have now also chosen to take the final step and become Danish citizens and become an accomplished part of Denmark. But I would also like to take this opportunity to mention a few points which we, as Radicals, would like to change in relation to the acquisition of citizenship, Danish citizenship. One of the demands is self-reliance. Applicants must have been self-supporting for the last 31⁄2 of 4 years before, and with the conditions prevailing here with a corona crisis, it becomes extra difficult to obtain citizenship, as a lot of people fear unemployment. At the same time, as Radicals, we also believe that it should be quite clear that education should be taken into account and that the time spent on training should also be counted. At the moment, it does not. Then you can apply for an exemption, and it will then come up in the Folketing, on the Committee on the Rights of the Child, where, as a member of the committee, I can see that the vast majority of people have rejected their application. I think it is wrong that young people who have been born and raised in Denmark, who have lived here all their lives, do not automatically become Danish citizens. Young people have graduated from primary school, and perhaps they have also taken an upper secondary education. Nevertheless, they cannot automatically become Danish citizens when they are 18 years old, but must spend 3 years first seeking permanent residence and then seeking citizenship. They have attended primary school in Denmark all the time, and yet they are going up to a test in knowing enough about Denmark. I therefore believe that it would be possible to give the young people the right of birth if they were born and raised here and have, by the way, stayed away from serious crime. That is why the Radical Left has tabled a motion for a resolution to the effect that people who were born here in Denmark and graduated from primary school should be allowed to become Danish citizens. They should not go through first seeking birthright and spending a lot of money and up to 3 years on it. It will be discussed in the Danish Parliament on 28 May. Having said that, we support the bill that is on the table here. I would therefore like to congratulate you once again on having citizenship and voting rights. Thank you for choosing to become part of Denmark. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140151	Thank you. There are brief comments and the first is from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140157	Thank you. Did I hear correctly when I heard the rapporteur say that, after many writings, the party had succeeded in getting the government to table a bill of citizenship with the suspension of the handshake?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140217	Yeah, we've had a lot of writings. I have written to the Minister, made three Article 20 questions to the Minister, and the Minister was initially very dismissive, and then it turned out as everyone could see that this crisis would last longer and longer, that the government showed flexibility and openness in this area, and the government should be thanked for that. That is fine, and thank you very much for the kindness shown to these many new people, the many new Danish citizens who have sought citizenship and who have lived up to the demands of all sorts of other areas. Yes, Mrs. Marie Krarup heard that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140257	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140259	That is, of course, what to say, a victory for the Radical Left, but it is a disaster for the rest of us. It is, of course, a disaster that the Radical Left still has an influence on the policy of social democracy on foreigners to the extent that such a decisive moment can be taken out of legislation in the light of the pressure of the Radical Left. I am very sorry to hear that, but on the other hand, of course, it was also what we suspected, i.e. that it might not be so easy to pursue a strict immigration policy if you want to build your majority on a party such as the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten and the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140346	Thank you. I'm not supposed to deal with that. All I can say is that I think that is common sense. I think it is right, fairly and democratically, to allow people who can meet all other requirements to become Danish citizens without handshaking the handshake which, moreover, we forbid them to give. So I think that is a real decision that the government has made, and I welcome the fact that the government has made that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140415	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140423	I would just like to draw the attention of the radical rapporteur to the fact that what the radical rapporteur is proposing with regard to citizenship, that is to say, the fact that it is automatically granted, in addition to being completely insane, is in fact also unconstitutional. Is the radical rapporteur aware of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140440	Thank you. It's your business to know you're crazy. But I can only note so much that I think that people who have been born and raised in Denmark, who have attended Danish primary school and who, moreover, are subject to Danish conditions and requirements, and everyone else should be allowed to be Danish citizens. Yeah, that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140506	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140508	The proposal put forward by the Radical Left is completely insane, i.e. it is simply automatic. However, as I also said, section 44 of the Constitution states. 1: No foreigner can be granted the right of citizenship without legal protection. Is the Radical Left a party that will change the constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140529	As far as making a substantive amendment to the constitution is concerned, I would like to say that there are many things that could be adjusted. So if we take it quite specifically as it is here, we can take the specific position and say that what we are concerned with here is that there are some people who have been born and raised in Denmark who have attended school in Denmark, who can speak the Danish language and who, of course, we believe should be allowed to be Danish citizens. Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140554	Thank you. Then there are no more brief remarks in this round. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140607	Thank you. I would like to begin by congratulating the new Danes who have just acquired Danish citizenship, and welcome to. Denmark is a diverse country, one can be Danish in many ways and in many colors. The way here has not been easy for you, and it will not necessarily be. For the most important turning points in one's life is also something that requires great effort. Your new status is the expression of an imperceptible change that constitutes the fruit of your diligence: you have learned Danish, you have come into work, you have learned to participate actively in society, and you have finally passed the difficult test of birth. In this connection, I would like to tell you that Denmark is a lovely country, and it is now both mine and yours. That's a commitment. What makes Denmark special is our rule of law, democracy, gender equality and, finally, freedom of expression. These are the basic pillars of the community that Denmark is. You're part of that now. None of the values reflected in these columns can be deselected. If you opt out of one of them, it will all go away, yes, the pillars referred to are like pillars that sustain our entire society. I hereby wish you every success in the future and hope that with your citizenship you will actively participate in Danish society and appreciate our lovely country as much as we do, yes, that you will contribute to strengthening the fundamental values of society. Once again, great congratulations to all of you. Against this background, I can inform you that the SF supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140801	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140806	I just cannot help noticing that SF therefore believes that Danishism is some kind of ideology, so that if you sign that you support certain rights, democracy and equality and something like that, you are a Dane. That seems very strange to me. What about the entire inherited culture and history and distinctiveness and also Christianity? Shall we remove the cross from Dannebrog and write the UN Convention on Human Rights instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140846	In SF we believe that you are a Dane when you feel it in the heart, when you live up to certain rules, and then we in SF are not so preoccupied with race theory. 'Cause I actually think it sounds kind of like in your question, where you're talking about historical background, Christianity. Then it's also a kind of race theory.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140912	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505140914	Okay, it was weird: race theory. So that means that Christianity is a race and that Islam is another race and that Buddhism is a third race and that races are important. That's bullshit. It's so embarrassing, really embarrassing. But in addition, Denmark is much more than just the rights that have been written into the constitution, which are certainly excellent and which I support 100%. But there's so much more to it than that. There are also many other countries that support democracy and equal value and thank God for it but they are not Danish. So there is something extra there, some tradition, some history, some culture that is inherited, of which Christianity is also a very important thing. It seems that the SF does not attach any weight whatsoever to it, but it may be because they have not fully understood it because they think it has something to do with racism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505141016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505141018	Now I would say that there are very, very many who do not necessarily have a Christian background that feels Danish. There are also a great many ethnic Danes who do not settle with Christian values. Having said that, I would say that one can easily take over some traditions and a culture, even if one is not a native Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505141046	Thank you. There are no more brief comments inscribed here, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505141059	Thank you for that, President. Let me start by congratulating the 1,861 applicants who have been admitted to this bill. You have come very far in a long, too heavy and laborious process, where you have had to pass tests and provide evidence that you meet the strict requirements of a majority of the Folketing. In the Enhedslisten we would like to see the requirements relaxed on a number of points. Exactly how we are going to do that, I am not going to tire out the assembly today, but refer to our 2008 constitutional draft that is on the Enhedslisten's website. Today, we are then discussing a bill on citizenship in exceptional circumstances. They are so unusual that in this bill the government is proposing to waive the requirement of handshake at the so-called constitutional ceremonies. Unfortunately, this is not happening because the government has realised that the handshake requirement is foolish symbolic policy based on the unfair belief that people who prefer greetings other than the handshake are not worthy to become Danish citizens. On the other hand, it is because, after a few weeks of hesitation, the government has realised that, in the present situation, when health authorities warn everyone else against handshakes, it would be absurd to demand that unbiased applicants, mayors and other municipal representatives should be exposed to the risk of infection. As we can see from the amendments to which the Left and Conservatives have asked for technical assistance, most of the right, the Corona crisis or not, will stubbornly hold onto symbolic policy. Fortunately, the government has its parliamentary basis in place, so there is a majority to suspend the demand for handshakes, at least as long as the corona crisis threatens. A very small proportion of the 1,861 applicants to the bill have been admitted with a derogation from the Committee on the Rights of the Child because they lack one or more of the tests normally required. Unfortunately, the majority of the committee has taken a very hard line in cases involving applicants with long-term disability, i.e. a disease or disability that prevents them from meeting the test requirements. Just before Christmas, Politiken referred to a case about a mentally ill Iraqi woman who had been denied twice in the past, the last refusal in 2018, after the Copenhagen Byret had established that women's contractual rights had been violated when she was refused in 2016. The city court ruling did not impress the majority of the committee, which was obviously not afraid to violate Denmark's contractual obligations again. First, when the case had reached the European Court of Human Rights in 2019, the majority changed their opinion and granted her an exemption so that she can now become a Danish citizen in accordance with our obligations under the Disability Convention. However, every year we see hundreds of refusals in cases of seriously ill applicants............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. However, the vast majority of applicants do not have the money or the power to take legal action in the courts. Although there are now several judgments in which Danish courts have ruled that a refusal constitutes an infringement of the Disability Convention, it has not changed the committee's practice of rejecting approx. 99% of the so-called disease cases, as indicated in an inventory in Information in November 2019. 51 applicants for this bill are stateless, and when we make them citizens, we make our modest contribution to the fight against statelessness... a battle Denmark has committed itself to at international level, but where we could do much, much more. The Department of Human Rights could tell in 2018 that in Denmark at that time there were over 500 stateless persons who could obtain Danish citizenship under the stateless convention or under the Children's Convention. I guess it's 500 people the authorities have the name and address of. The Enhedslisten asked the then minister if she would contact the 500 stateless persons and draw their attention to their rights. And the reply from the then minister was very brief: No, I do not intend to take any action on this matter. I would like to take this opportunity today to call on the current Minister to make his contribution to the eradication of the statelessness which Denmark has undertaken to combat in conventions and declarations, and to contact the stateless persons protected by the special constitutional rights, in order to bring this to their attention. But to sum up, I would say that Enhedslisten is very pleased with this bill to be able to reduce the number of citizens living in this country without full civil rights, including the right to vote in the Folketing, and we are pleased that we can at least for a time suspend the duty of handshake. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal and, of course, warmly welcomes the 1,861 new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505141549	Thank you. No one has signed up for short remarks, so that is not the case in this round. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the next rapporteur, who is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505141601	Thank you, President. I think it is really, really a pity that the Social Democrats are now putting forward this bill without the handshake, because I fully agree with the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party that the handshake is an important part of Danish culture. And that is why I find it surprising that the Social Democrats themselves are taking this out, that is, when the Social Democrats think it is such an important part of Danish culture. We believe that we should put cold water in our blood and look at the situation this autumn. Of course, we fully understand that there is a corona crisis, and if that means that we cannot properly shake hands, then, of course, we respect it. So let's see what the situation is like this autumn. If the situation seems to be going on for a long time, then we would like to look at dispensing from the handshake. But to do so now we see as a kneefall to the red support parties. That is why we expect to table an amendment, expected with the Left, in which we propose to look at the situation in the autumn. That is the sensible thing to do, and of course we expect the Social Democrats to vote in favour of it. And that is where I fully agree with Mr. Morten Dahlin; the Social Democratic Party has repeatedly said that a strict policy on foreigners will be pursued with the blue parties, and if we do not vote in favour of our amendment, it would be a clear breach of the declaration of intent, if I may call it that, of the Social Democrats. So we look forward to the debate on the amendment, and we look forward in particular to the Social Democrats voting in favour of it. In addition, I would just like to point out that, although we expect to vote in favour of the bill, of course with our amendments, we believe, overall, that too many criminals get Danish citizenship. The rapporteur for the Enhedslisten says: Welcome to all of you, there are none of you who are criminals. To that I would say that it may not be safe, because right now, the bar is about how much crime you can do, quite high. We Conservatives believe that if you have been given a prison sentence at all, you should not have Danish citizenship. We also believe that the requirements for Danish Test 3 should be stricter so that it is an indispensable requirement; we believe that we should have a conversation as part of the process, and there we are nevertheless pleased that the government has at least partially responded to us in terms of wanting to discuss it. So we look forward to it too. However, these are, of course, some of the things we expect to negotiate next time we open negotiations on citizenship. As it is right now, we are, of course, in the agreement that we reached last, including the handshake, and that is why we look forward to voting in favour of the draft law, of course, with the amendment that we are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505141836	Thank you. There are brief comments and the first is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505141844	Thank you very much, President. I understand from the Conservative rapporteur that Conservatives will support this bill on citizenship, and I would really like to put Mr. Marcus Knuth one question. The Conservative People's Party came up with a very interesting proposal not long ago, which was actually quite reasonable: if you were convicted of criminals, you should not be able to obtain Danish citizenship. In concrete terms, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen actually to DR: "In short, you must never have received a prison sentence either conditionally or unconditionally if you want Danish citizenship... For us, citizenship is something very unique, something very special, and it should not be given in vain. And certainly not to criminals and people who don't speak our language. We can sort of agree on that. Then I just have to hear the Conservative rapporteur: if it turns out, as was the previous bill that we discussed in December, that there are also convicted criminals on this bill, will the Conservative People's Party vote against the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505141947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505141950	Now it is the case that these citizenships are being distributed in a pool, and our approach is that the political agreements we have made so far are, of course, still valid. So what we are proposing here is that we should not be able to obtain Danish citizenship in the future, if it is the case that you have committed crime and have been sentenced to prison, is that this will be the requirement with which we will meet the negotiations when we look at Danish citizenship next time. But, of course, we stand by that agreement. This is the difference between us and the Danish People's Party: The Danish People's Party was familiar to me in the last agreement, but still votes against the legislative proposals time and time again. That is just not the position we have in Conservatives. We stand by our previous agreements, but we expect to make even higher demands in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142030	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142031	It's a bit of a politician's talk. So I am sorry to say that, rapporteur. Sir. Marcus Knuth is, of course, in favour of a very firm foreign policy, but it does not really make sense if you go out like the President here and say that they in the Conservative People's Party will not give citizenship to convicted criminals, that you will vote in favour anyway, even if there are convicted criminals on the bill. So it seems really weird. Because even if you have reached an agreement on general requirements, you can acknowledge that there are some people on the bill that you do not want and therefore vote against it. Will the Conservative People's Party keep its word on this bill? If there are convicted criminals on, will the Conservative People's Party vote against this specific bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142120	I think it is now Mrs Mette Thiesen who is out in it, I do not know whether to call it politicians' talk, but at least very populist talk. For the situation in the Folketing is that you make an agreement, and of course you stand by it, and then you work towards the next agreement. And I say very clearly that what we are going into in the negotiations on the next agreement is: if you have received a prison sentence, you should not be able to become a Danish citizen. I do not assume that New Citizens just say a few months after they have reached an agreement: we really do not want to do that anyway. Now we want something quite third. We stand by the agreements we have made until we conclude a new agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142154	Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142159	Until March, Mr. Marcus Knuth and me with our hands when we met. We are not doing this at the moment because we are following the recommendations of the Danish Health Service, but that does not mean that I intend the rapporteur any less for that reason. That is because we are pragmatists and because we relate to some rational recommendations that need to break some chains of infection. So, if the rapporteur acknowledges this in a way by saying that it might have been a different matter in the autumn, is it not a little out of proportion to the polemic to call it a kneesliding on the part of the government to the red parties that we are trying to find a pragmatic solution to a health crisis for some people who have done a lot to live up to the things we expect of people who want to be citizens of Denmark, and then make a pragmatic solution here, where we suspend the handshake ceremony temporarily, but where there is still a ceremony? Is this more controversy than substance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142257	No, it's very much substance. Now we could hear before from the Red Support Parties that it has actually been set up to try to push the government in that direction and say: well, let us drop the handshake. Because it's very clear what's going on here. The Red Support Parties • Enhedslisten og Radical Left, etc. The blue parties want it to be maintained, of course within the limits of fairness. If the corona situation lasts for several years or for longer, at least, you can look at making a derogation. It's been two months, and then the Social Democrats go out and drop the handshake at least in connection with this bill. As I see it, it is difficult to read it as anything other than that the Social Democrats allow themselves to be pressured by the red parties and respond to them, thereby derogating from the intention of the Social Democrats at least to pursue a strict policy of aliens with the blue parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142355	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142356	It is a very natural consequence of being a minority government to listen to other parties. Only today a large compensation agreement was presented, in which the Left was also an important and broad guarantor of support. So I guess listening to others isn't that weird. But that means that the substance of our disagreement is whether the average is now, or whether it is a few months ahead in the autumn, when perhaps the rapporteur had looked at the matter differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142426	That's right. We think we should take a look at the time. If, in the autumn of this year, with the present situation, we can shake hands with good health, I think we should do that. But to depart from it now after so little time does not make any sense. As Mrs Krarup also said, the people who are waiting for the Danish passport must not leave the country, and neither can they because you cannot go anywhere. They're already here, and I'm sure they'd like to wait the extra few months. And when we ask the Danes to wait for so many other things, I find it hard to see this as anything other than a kneefall for the red support parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142508	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142509	I would just like to say that we are immensely far from kneeling the red support parties in the policy of immigration and integration from the government. It is certainly not our view that this is a knee fall. Perhaps I could have wished it would be more, but I would of course acknowledge that in this case the government has succeeded in accepting common sense. And that is actually what I would like to ask the rapporteur. 'Cause now, sir... Marcus Knuth mentions that there are some demands and that Mr. Marcus Knuth actually wanted to tighten up those demands too, Mr. Marcus Knuth then does not also recognise that it is, after all, to draw the same legal distance to start making demands on citizens that they cannot meet, because that is what we would do in this case? We wanted to demand that a handshake ceremony be carried out which is not currently possible. Is it not, after all, to tighten up the requirements equally legally, to make a requirement that cannot be met?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142611	Let's get things straight here. I am not saying that a handshake ceremony must now be carried out which cannot be carried out. I'm saying you shouldn't suspend it now. I say let's wait until autumn. And if the prospect of handshaking again at that time is very, very long, well then we are open to suspend it, that is to say by then. That's what I'm saying. I'm not saying you have to go out and do a handshake ceremony right now. That would, of course, be quite contrary to the recommendations made by the health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142641	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142643	But then that means suspending the right to citizenship, because then a citizenship ceremony cannot be held, and then they do not have the possibility of obtaining citizenship. So that would be the same as saying that the citizens who have now fulfilled all the conditions cannot obtain their citizenship anyway, which may also mean that their children, who are on the bill as bi-members, will reach 18 years of age and therefore no longer be able to stand as bi-members. It may then also mean an increased administrative burden on the birthright office when they are going to review all these cases again. So, is it not just common sense to say that there are now some of these ceremonies that cannot be carried out, but that it should not stop these citizens from acquiring the citizenship that they fulfil all the conditions for obtaining?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142731	As I see it, Enhedslisten and the red support parties use this corona crisis as a lever to try to gently tilt the handshake all the way out the door and thus look great at Danish culture. It's fucked up. And the fact that the Social Democratic Party agrees in part to this already now, after so little time to override the handshake of this bill, I think it is really, really sad. Yes, I find it difficult to put it in any other way than that it has nothing to do with losing the right to citizenship, as the rapporteur says. We say calmly: why not wait until autumn and see what the situation is, instead of already just letting go of the important part of the ceremony.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142814	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142817	Thank you. Mr. Marcus Knuth not that it would be to show respect for those people who have met a whole series of other requirements, that they should be given the opportunity to become citizens now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142830	I think it would be to show respect if the many people who are on this bill said: we have been in Denmark for a long time, we have lived up to a great many demands, there is a corona crisis, of course we want to shake that hand. It is important for a majority in the Folketing to implement that handshake, so we would like to show respect by waiting with peace of mind for the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142852	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142854	Thank you, but I don't think I'm getting an answer to what I'm asking. Mr. Marcus Knuth not that in relation to people who have met these different requirements within a number of things it becomes self-supporting etc. etc. This is an exception where we can't shake hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142922	I think it would be a slippery path towards the many relaxations in the area of citizenship that the Radical Left and the other Red Support Parties want, if that is the case, that we are already beginning to relax our demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142934	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more brief remarks in this round. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505142944	Thank you so much. In 1983 a large majority in the Folketing adopted the harmful alien law, and every day we see the sad result: mosques are shooting up in several cities; the women's oppressive Muslim scarf thrives in institutions, schools and in public workplaces; halal meat and gender-separated swimming are readily accepted; immigrant gangs are shooting on open street; terrorist protection has become today's architecture; police, rescuers and home helpers meet with violence and vandalism in foreign tongues; crimes committed by people with Middle Eastern, foreign or Arabic looks are daily reading material in the local media. Politicians opened the doors of Denmark with the Aliens Act and allowed the alien masses to flow in. In 30 years, we have experienced an insane fivefold increase. In 2008, Denmark's Statistics produced a projection showing that we in Denmark could expect 340.518 non-western immigrants in the year 2050. But we have already staggeredly surpassed that figure. Today, we are debating whether 2,597 new foreigners should have Danish citizenship, even on less favourable terms than already in our view. In New Citizens, we use common sense and vote no. All members of parliament should do that. We are elected to protect the Danes and not to let them down. Since the insane alien law of 1983, 241.555 Danish citizenships have been awarded to foreigners. In addition, citizenship comes to the children of foreigners who are not included in the figures of Statistics Denmark. And it is therefore mainly the unwanted foreigners who have acquired Danish citizenship. These are foreigners from Turkey, Iraq, Somalia, Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Morocco, Lebanon and Syria. In New Citizens we do not believe that Danish citizenship should be given to immigrants and descendants from countries where we know from statistics that immigrants and their descendants commit crime much more often than Danes when they come here. And that is why, of course, we are voting against this bill. I would also like to ask at committee reading how many criminal foreigners will get Danish passports with this bill. Last year it was quite a lot. And I am a little shocked that one can take the view that criminal foreigners should have Danish citizenship. We certainly do not think so in the new citizens. That the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance vote in favour of this is my surprise, because it is parties that say that they want a strict immigration policy. But at the same time they throw around with Danish citizenships to foreigners who should never get it. Danish citizenship is a great gift. That is something we must safeguard, and it is therefore with pride in our voice that I say that we in the New Citizens' Party do not support this proposal, because we are safeguarding this great gift of Danish citizenship. We take care of Denmark and the Danes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143311	Thank you. And there are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143318	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech to the rapporteur. It was just because I heard that in the past there was an exchange of words about the possibility of obtaining citizenship, where Mr. Nils Sjøberg pointed out the possibility that young people born and raised in Denmark could be granted citizenship by declaration to which Mrs Mette Thiesen stated that it would be unconstitutional. Then all I have to do is listen to the declaration access previously granted to young people born and raised in Denmark, who could obtain citizenship by stating whether Mrs Mette Thiesen is of the opinion that this is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143355	I am not quite sure what the rapporteur was asking about. But is it correct to understand that the rapporteur is asking whether there is a difference between what Mr. Nils Sjøberg suggested, and saw what I suggested, i.e. whether it was also unconstitutional? Is that what the rapporteur is asking? Otherwise, I do not think I understood what the rapporteur has just said. What I contested earlier was that the rapporteur on the Radical Left said clearly and clearly that, if you were born in Denmark, you would automatically have to obtain citizenship, and it is not the case that the basic law is screwed up. The constitution is linked in such a way that we grant citizenship by law. And, as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup, said earlier, it is up to the individual Member of Parliament to vote in favour or against the granting of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143439	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143442	Yes, but it was because in the past there has been the possibility for young people born and raised in Denmark, who have certainly not committed serious crime, that they could obtain a declaration, which meant that they went up to the state administration and signed a declaration and thus obtained the right to Danish citizenship. And it is, of course, a declaration access which has previously been practised in Denmark, and that is why I am surprised if what Mrs Mette Thiesen says is that what was proposed should be contrary to the basic law, because that is something we have previously practiced in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143512	What I can relate to is what is written in the Basic Law of the Danish Empire, which we have all signed up to when we get into this very, very fine thing. It is clear in section 44, that birthright is granted by law, and then it makes absolutely no sense to make a proposal that simply grants citizenship, depending on how long one has done, because then it will still be some form of law. That is just not what the radical rapporteur showed in his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143541	The next brief remark is to Mr. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143546	That's very appropriate. I can only refer to the proposal which Peder Hvelplund has just drawn attention to; that is what is being retabled here in the Folketing, and it is not unconstitutional and we can talk about that on 28 May when it comes forward. What I noticed in the speech that I have just heard is that there is crime, there is shooting, there are unwanted aliens and that is such a very generalising view. We are talking today about a group of people who have lived up to a whole range of demands, including, among other things, the fact that they are not criminals. Well, I'm wondering about that human vision, if I'm to be honest. I'm actually really upset about it. I would just like to ask: is this the group of people we are talking about today should have the opportunity to become Danish citizens, as the rapporteur is talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143649	I always think it's so funny that the left is always pulling out that map with human vision. Well, I cherish Denmark and the Danes, and so it is also a human vision, that is to say, to take care of what we have, and it is very much about this too. In relation to what the rapporteur mentions, I would like to say that, in fact, criminals were condemned in the last legislative proposal, too, for which the rapporteur's party also voted. There will certainly also be convicted criminals on this, because it is not part of the, what to say, rules that are which one has to live up to in order to be eligible for Danish citizenship. So there will certainly be. But there are also many other parameters. It is, of course, a question of whether you can adapt to Denmark. It is very much about not committing crime, supporting oneself, adapting to Danish society. And then, of course, we have a question, so I have, when I am on the Committee on the Rights of the Bible concerning those on which we are voting; that is, if I vote for anyone, it should be only because it is someone I think is for the benefit of Denmark. And there we just have a clear position that we do not want to grant citizenship to those that we can see coming from these Muslim countries where they are far more criminal than the Danes when they come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143802	Thank you. Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143803	I again think it is a gross generalisation, and I would like to point out that I also feel that I actually cherish Denmark. I am a member of the Danish National Church; I am a believer; it has nothing to do with this matter at all. I'm a little puzzled by the human vision that's being expressed in this context. Because apparently we have different ways of understanding this. That is why I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the rapporteur thinks it is amusing that we have here a group of people who meet the requirements: they are self-employed, they are not criminals and they have the opportunity to contribute to Danish society. Is it really the rapporteur's view that these people will not be able to contribute to Danish society at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143851	Yes, there are far too many people on this bill that we do not think in any way whatsoever should be near having a Danish citizenship. But I would also like to say that this is a general problem because, for so many decades, Danish citizenship has been thrown around to people who should never have had it. And the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party actually said earlier, and I fully agree that it has done irreversible damage to our society, so of course that is something we must pay close attention to. And it has nothing to do with human vision; it is the map that the left wing always pulls to make us look incredibly evil. It is about looking after Denmark, what generations before us have built up, and being able to pass it on to future generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143925	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505143932	Thank you for the floor. We believe that it is necessary to be extremely critical of who is granted Danish citizenship. Nationality should only be given to people who wholeheartedly support Denmark; to people who understand and master our language; and to people who understand our history and our customs and values. In view of the fact that too many citizenships have been granted historically, the Liberal Alliance has helped tighten the rules for precisely the granting of Danish citizenship. We would also like the rules to be even stricter. We can, for example. do not understand that one is considered to be self-supporting when receiving su. This is not the case; on the contrary, you live on a transfer income and are supported by taxpayers. But here we wanted to go further than the majority of the Folketing, and of course we accept that. However, it can be said that, overall, the rules are where they should be. Then, as a safeguard measure, a constitutional ceremony has been introduced, and I have pointed out earlier that this is a rather strange ceremony. It is rather curious about constitutional law, because the applicant has to sign that he will abide by the constitution, and that is very, very strange, because the constitution is not a law that must be observed by the citizens; it is a law that must be observed by politicians. There is nothing in the Constitution that citizens should abide by. And why do we have the Constitution? It is, of course, to protect citizens from politicians. You gotta keep that in mind. So it's a little superfluous that you have this, but it's kind of a precaution. And as an additional precaution, we have also introduced the handshake. That means that we have three security measures. We have a restrictive circular to grant citizenship. Then we have a symbolic signature on a document about something that politicians must observe. And then we have the handshake. It is not just like wearing belts and braces; it is like wearing elastic trousers, belts and braces. So that's three things at once you put in here. In the light of the covid-19, we in LA believe that one of the three things can be spared for a shorter period of time, so that, exceptionally, we only require elastic trousers and waistbands and, for a short transitional period, derogations from the belts. This seems to us to be pragmatic and conduite in the light of the situation. That's why we're backing this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144230	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration will have the opportunity to round off the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144240	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking you for today's debate on the legislative proposal. After all, it is a bill on citizenship notification, where 1,861 people are notified of Danish citizenship, and that is a great thing. Danish citizenship is not just a piece of paper; it is something more and something important. As a Danish citizen, we have a responsibility to look after our common country and the democratic values and the constitution on which it is based. We are in these days in an extraordinary situation where many things have been turned upside down. It's obvious to all of us. What we did and what we had cannot necessarily be fulfilled. Among other things, the situation of the corona virus has also given rise to reflection on the need for handshake, which is made available to applicants for Danish citizenship. We are in a situation where, on the one hand, legislation requires handshakes for the acquisition of citizenship and, on the other, health authorities, because of the risk of spread of infection, recommend that no handshake and distance be given. In concrete terms, it has had the effect that the municipalities have not held otherwise planned constitutional ceremonies. They were the ones that were otherwise planned as a follow-up to our latest legislative proposal. There were about 1,000 citizens on the bill that failed to attend a constitutional ceremony. This bill also includes some of the demands to participate in a constitutional ceremony. It's self-evident. In view of the current situation, it is the Government's view that we should suspend the handshake requirement temporarily. Only in this way will we ensure that those who so fervently wish to become Danish citizens and who meet the strict requirements in terms of crime, language and residence and all sorts of other things will not, due to unforeseen external circumstances, be postponed their participation in a constitutional ceremony and thus their Danish citizenship indefinitely. The suspension of the handshake requirement is also proposed to apply to applicants who are covered by the most recent law on citizenship of December and who, because of the postponement of the constitutional ceremonies, have not had the opportunity to become Danish nationals. We do not want to roll back the demand for handshakes at the ceremonies, so that the handshake remains in the legislation, but, in view of the exceptional situation we are in, for a period of time, we will suspend the demand. It is also important for me to say that it is the demand for the handshake that we propose to be suspended, not the actual constitutional ceremonies. We continue to propose that one should take part in such a constitutional ceremony and that in this context one should also sign the agreement that Danish legislation, including the constitution, will be observed and respect the fundamental Danish values and principles of law, including democracy. The reason why we are going to suspend the handshake is, as has been said, that health authorities, among other things. recommends that you do not shake hands and that you keep your distance. I do not think we can really demand of new citizens that they shake hands with the mayor when the mayor does not raise his hand because the health authorities recommend that you do not shake hands at all and that you keep your distance. Nor is it reasonable for people to have to wait indefinitely to become Danish citizens because of the current exceptional situation. That is our position and we think that is common sense. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good debate. I look forward to the further examination of the bill here in the Folketing. I can hear that there are a few amendments on the way, and of course we are at our disposal to help with everything we can. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144553	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144556	Thank you so much. On Tuesday 25 February, there was a man who was at the constitutional ceremony at Copenhagen City Hall, and he refused to shake hands, and therefore he did not get his Danish citizenship. Will he still be able to acquire Danish citizenship now without shaking hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144620	That's right. I myself took part in the ceremony at Copenhagen City Hall, and I thought it was a very good event that the City of Copenhagen had set on its feet. There was choir from St. Annæ Gymnasium, and there was a speech from myself and the mayor, and there was family up on the balcony, and there was a really loud mood. There were six cows, one could stand up to come and shake hands with various representatives of the citizens' representation, and as far as I am aware, there was one who went into the queue and reached out his hand, but then withdrew and said that he would not shake hands. I'm a little in doubt about who it is, so I don't have the guts to put my head on the block and say who it is, and if it's confirmed and something like that. If he didn't want to shake hands, he couldn't get citizenship there. Whether he would be able to take part in a future constitutional ceremony, I must return to writing because I do not know whether it is noted that he would not shake hands and I do not know what the legal consequences of that would be. But I think this is a relevant question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144715	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144717	Thank you for your answer. I look forward to receiving concrete and definitive answers to that. The Social Democratic rapporteur said earlier in his speech that it could not be compared here with Danes who are queued up for hospital operations, with handshaking in connection with the constitutional ceremony, i.e. getting Danish citizenship. The rapporteur also mentioned that it cannot be compared because no bill is paid. Does the Minister not think that if only someone gets a Danish citizenship that should not have had it, then Danish society will pay a very, very large bill on all parameters for many years to come?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144757	I think so, sir. Rasmus Stoklund mentions that the reason why health care operations are postponed is that we want health care to be ready to deal with the current situation of covid-19. It is, of course, a health balance, and it is true that it has a price for some people, for example. had planned operations, but there are no Danes paying the price for us to carry out constitutional ceremonies without handshaking, and that there are some who can become Danish citizens. And if there should be one person who would refuse to shake hands and who, by this bill, would gain citizenship, then that is the balance we have made. On the other hand, there are a four-digit number of people who would very much like to shake hands and participate in the ceremonies and who would otherwise have to wait indefinitely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144842	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144849	Thank you. The radical rapporteur told us earlier in the debate that it is pressure from the Radical Left that has led the Social Democratic Government to relax foreign policy by putting forward this bill and thus asking for the handshake to be suspended. Is that something we want to see in the future? Will we see more of that, in other words that the Radical Left will have the Socialist Government further relaxing foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505144923	I think I have to disappoint the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party a little here. It is not the Radical Left that has decided the government's policy in this area. It is so low-practical and simple that when these drafts are to be tabled, of course I read them, and then I read a text in which it said that you had to shake hands in order to become a Danish citizen, and then I thought that the Danish Health Authority recommends that you do not shake hands. The mayor cannot raise his hand, so can I really stand here in the Parliamentary Chamber and table a bill that says that you have to shake hands to become a Dane while at the same time the government recommends not to shake hands? That did not make sense to me, and that is why the government decided that we should temporarily suspend the handshake. However, I am pleased with all the written questions from all the parliamentary parties, including the Radical Left, and it is true that one can read in the answers that we gave that we were not prepared to do so immediately, because at first we could not know how long this would take. But now we have been told that there is no end date when we should not shake hands anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145024	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145026	It would be bad if the government were to be subject to the Radical Left in foreign policy, but it is actually worse if the government were to relax its own policy on foreigners, because then we can be absolutely sure of seeing more of it in the future. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145044	We have no intention of relaxing the policy on foreigners, in fact, at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145053	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145058	Thank you. I would, of course, like to sign that we have now had the handshake requirement suspended, and that applies both to the bill here and to the October bill adopted in December. For me, it doesn't matter who has pressured whom to do what or who has got the idea to do it, because the crucial thing is that we are now in a situation where, fortunately, we can get that injustice corrected. I would like to ask the Minister something. It is very good that we have now had it suspended; it is no secret that we want it completely abolished, but at least now it is suspended. However, the citizens who received their citizenship and were on the bill adopted in December have already waited a long time. Now we have to deal with this bill, and it also has to be dealt with first, second and third readings, and it has to be published, so can the Minister say when it will be possible to hold the first constitutional ceremonies without handshaking requirements, which will allow citizens who have been waiting since December to have their citizenship? And does the Minister agree that this is an unreasonable amount of time for these citizens to wait before they actually effect their citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145205	It is true that this bill must be dealt with thirdly before the municipalities can call for ceremonies, but it also requires that the municipalities can call for ceremonies and that there is someone at work in the municipalities and that they are able to conduct the ceremonies within the framework of the recommendations of the health authorities. I dare not guarantee that this can happen on this side of the summer break. I hope that some can be settled, but I simply do not dare to guarantee it. I have tried to sit with the calendar and try to figure out when it will be at the earliest, but I dare not guarantee, as I said, that it will be within this side of the summer holiday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145243	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145245	After all, I have done the same exercise, and it might look as if it might be at the end of June or at the beginning of July, when the municipalities will then also typically go into a period of summer vacation, so that it can actually mean that ceremonies can only be held in August. I think that is a long time for these citizens to have to wait to come to a ceremony, but that could be resolved by drawing up an emergency law which, as it were, ensured that they were given the opportunity to do so for the citizens on the bill adopted in December. So I just need to know if the Minister is willing to make such an emergency law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145323	I myself have helped to bring forward legislation which we asked the Danish Parliament to deal urgently with in this Chamber about foreign fighters, and the government has also asked the Danish Parliament to deal urgently with legislation in other areas of the Corona situation, but that is because we believe that there has really been a need for some legislation to come into force within a few days. I find it rather difficult to see the arguments that the difference between holding a constitutional ceremony at the end of June and the beginning of August should lead the Danish Parliament to meet and short-circuit our normal Rules of Procedure and deal urgently with a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145358	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We shall then give some room for a little rowing; the Foreign Affairs rapporteurs may be replaced by the Tax rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145443	Before we start the debate, I must point out that we in the Bureau have decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. The change means that all speeches are taken out of the seats, both ministerial and rapporteur speeches and short remarks. This sometimes presents a bit of practical challenges, because you have to make sure you talk into the microphone, but I think we can handle that too. For the purpose of drawing up the minutes, it is very important that you do not start talking until the red ring on your microphone lights up. As usual, you will be able to see your remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505145536	Thank you for that, President. With this resolution, new citizens want to introduce a new tax credit for parents who opt out of public day care for their children under 3 years of age. The allowance must be granted regardless of whether the parents themselves care for the children at home or arrange for private care. It must also be conditional on parents not receiving income-based transfer income or in supported employment. The authors of the proposal justify the proposal by saying that childcare in an institution is neither optimal for children nor parents, and that a childcare allowance would give parents better opportunities to look after the child or organise private childcare. It is not long ago that we in the Parliamentary Assembly had a discussion on motion for a resolution B 66........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I am aware that the proposed conditions for obtaining the tax credit do not coincide with the conditions of the subsidy scheme, but one might nevertheless wonder why a proposal which is far like B66 which a large majority of the Danish Parliament could not support, so to speak, should be improved by getting into the tax system, which, as it were, can be said, is complicated enough in advance. In addition, when the proposal is estimated to result in a loss of tax revenue of three-digit millions, it is no surprise that the government is unable to support the proposal, and I would like to expand on that point. As the Minister for Children and Education also referred to in the discussion of B 66, Denmark has a long tradition of common welfare provision for children. The Danish daily offers contribute to the fact that all children can become part of the community, and at the same time they are at the heart of Denmark's well-functioning labour market, where a high proportion of both sexes are in paid work and thus contribute to the financing of our common welfare. The government has therefore also agreed, with the latest financial agreement, a large increase in the standards in our day institutions. In this area too, the government chooses to give priority to welfare first rather than embarking on schemes to support parents who could care for their children at home. Furthermore, I do not support the view that a new tax credit would be more appropriate than a subsidy scheme such as the one we currently have. Our tax system should be as simple and transparent as possible. Many might say that tax legislation is already, it can be said, rather difficult. However, in my view, this is not an argument for introducing a new complicated tax proposal and a new complicated tax regime, and the proposed childcare allowance will thus contribute to this. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the tax value of the proposed deduction is assumed to be quite considerable, i.e. more than DKK 100,000. a year. This corresponds to an equational deduction of more than DKK 400,000. a year. The use of a tax credit of this size presupposes that it is a parent with a relatively high income. For example: a family in which both parents are employed for a minimum HK wage will not immediately be able to make full use of the deduction. Thus, the tax deduction does not provide the same allowance for child care for all employed persons. Families with a low income will get less out of the deduction. Finally, of course, I must point out that the proposal is expected to have a negative impact on labour supply and will result in a lower revenue, for which funding is also not provided. So, overall, it may not come as a surprise when, as far as the government is concerned, I conclude that the government cannot support this proposal. I recognise the intention to give children's families more flexibility. It is just not something that can be solved by creating a system that makes our tax system more complicated, as is the case in this proposal. So, overall, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150027	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150029	Thank you. I must be honest and say that I am not entirely surprised, especially if you are also aware of the Government's Minister for Children and Education, which has also been very clear and clear. However, I have to ask: why does the Minister think that families who choose to relieve the public sector by caring for their own children should be made financially worse than parents who choose to use the publicly funded care services?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150058	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150100	That's what I used my whole so-called speech to explain. We do not think this proposal is good. We think it's expensive. No funding has been allocated to it. Basically, as a Social Democrat and the government, of course, I believe that it is good that we have Community institutions, and people who study the Danish welfare model often point out that some of the things that help to strengthen the cohesion of Danish society are, for example, that children from different backgrounds meet each other in our day institutions, primary schools and other Community institutions. That is what is at the heart of our welfare model, and for that reason too we do not think this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150147	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150149	That is a rather strange claim, because if parents do not use the public offer, they lose a right that is well over DKK 100,000. Worth it. So we think it would be quite natural. Well, now the minister also started talking about this with the tax system. If the Minister wishes to call for negotiations on real tax cuts everywhere else, then New Citizens will be very happy to come to them as well. This is specifically about giving Danish parents, Danish families, a real free choice and a much better opportunity to adapt as they would like, so that they do not have to have their children in day care, as it is for the vast majority of today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150229	Well, I don't really think there was any direct question. I think we just disagree. I don't think this is a good proposal. Finally, if you took it at face value, it would distort the possibilities of taking account of the deduction value of what I was talking about before. And then I just think that's fair enough, and that's how we have political disagreements. So, we believe that it has a bearing on a welfare society such as the Danish one, that children with different backgrounds meet each other in our Community institutions, and the day institutions are a vital part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150310	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150314	Of course, I think it is fair not to be in favour of this proposal, but the explanatory statement is nevertheless very revealing. So, the central reason from the tax minister is that if people don't deliver their children in the day care center, Denmark, that is, the community, the cohesion, etc. Does this mean that the families where you think you don't want the child in the nursery from the age of 1, but may wait until it is 2 years, or until it is 3 years and goes to kindergarten, simply destroy the cohesion in Denmark? Does this mean that when a whole year of maternity leave was introduced in Denmark, which caused a great many families to send their children later into the day nurseries, than when there were only six months of maternity leave, some coherence was simply destroyed in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150407	No, that does not mean, and it comes as no surprise that the Social Democratic Party also disagrees with the Liberal Alliance on this. There are schemes where the municipalities can grant subsidies to parents who want to take care of their children at home. Of course, there are also a great many parents who choose to look after their children themselves, and that is quite fine if you choose that scheme, but I just do not think that this is something we should use tax dollars on to the extent that New Citizens here advocate. It is quite fair that we have a disagreement on this. Then I think it is only fair to say that it is no surprise that, in relation to the importance of welfare institutions for having a community that is connected, Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance and the government are very far apart, and that is quite fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150453	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150455	In general, the tax minister is very good at telling that he means something other than others, but the arguments often lag behind. Well, it usually just happens to be that he means something different than some others and that he states that we mean different things, but why does the tax minister think the way he does? Now we have been told that it does not affect the coherence of Denmark, that you do not deliver your child to the nursery when the child is 1 year old, but the tax minister just does not want to spend money on people having a more free choice. I would ask the Minister of Taxation to argue in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150529	That argument is very simple and I have put it forward here. We don't think you should use what we estimate to be at least a three-digit million sum on this. Basically, I believe that it is good for Danish society and for the child himself that children from other backgrounds meet them, play with them, play football with them, etc. I believe that this helps to create what we pride ourselves on and that we can be proud of, namely to have a welfare society that is as closely linked as it does. We also disagree with the Liberal Alliance about the importance of our welfare institutions and what strength they should have in our society. I think that is clear to everyone, and that is quite fair; that is just how we disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150612	There are no more brief comments to the Minister for Taxation, so we are now going to start with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150621	Thank you for the floor, President. In the social democracy we are fighting to create a society where it is not the parents' postal code, education or income that dictates the future of a child. We want to create a society in which all children have the best possible opportunities to live their life dreams, for no child must grow up with fewer opportunities than others. In Denmark we have a long tradition of common welfare offers for our children. The Danish daily offers contribute to the fact that all children can become part of the community. This is absolutely central to our cohesion in Denmark and it helps to ensure that everyone, regardless of gender and social background, is in paid employment and thus contributes to the financing of our common welfare. Social democracy has therefore agreed, with the latest financial agreement, a major increase in the standards in our day-care institutions. We choose to give priority to common welfare first and not to give special support to the few parents who wish to take care of their children at home. The motion for a resolution we are debating today has been tabled by New Citizens and they propose to impose a child care allowance of up to DKK 109.200 on the government. a year to parents whose children do not use a public day offer while they are at the age of 1⁄2 to 3 years. The allowance must be granted regardless of whether the parents themselves care for the children at home or arrange for private care. The deduction can be distributed among the parents and cannot exceed the 109,200 DKK. per year regardless of the number of children aged 1⁄2-3 years. However, it is already possible today for municipalities to provide subsidies for the care of their own children in the age group 0-5, but the use of a tax credit of the proposed amount also presupposes that they are parents with a relatively high income. For example: a family in which both parents are employed at HK's minimum wage would not be able to make full use of the deduction. Thus, the deduction does not provide the same child care allowance for all and is therefore unevenly distributed because children's families with low income will get less out of the deduction. In addition, a child care allowance, as proposed here, will merely complicate the tax system further, a tax system which is complicated enough in advance. But it would also require safeguards to ensure that both deductions and subsidies cannot be obtained. In addition, the Ministry of Taxation estimates that the proposal will result in an annual reduction in revenue of a three-digit million amount, a revenue for which funding is not provided for in the motion for a resolution. With those reasons, the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150924	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505150930	Thank you so much. The rapporteur once again mentions this point: the rapporteur seems to know best what is best for Danish families. It is something of coherence, it is something of good for children to go to day care, etc. It is very different how one chooses to fit in as a This is not a subsidy, it is an employment allowance, which is on labour income. However, when the rapporteur has this very clear assessment that the rapporteur actually knows better than the families themselves how the families should fit in, I would really like to hear the rapporteur about what research or theoretical, psychological knowledge or something else on which the rapporteur is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151021	I would like to acknowledge that this proposal seeks to give children's families more flexibility, and I would like to acknowledge that intention for more flexibility. I also believe that it is parents' own free choice how they will organise themselves around childcare. I just do not believe that out of the common fund, out of our welfare, we should sacrifice 300 million. kr. or more at least a large three-digit million amount to give a deduction of this amount. We already have schemes in the municipalities where you can get subsidies to take care of your child in your own home. On the other hand, I believe that we have a very good offer in our institutions and that children benefit from going to kindergarten and meeting other children. But how parents arrange is their own free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151127	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151129	Thank you for your answer. But it isn't quite so, because really, a lot of Danish families are a little tense for this Social Democratic hamster wheel, where you are 100% dependent on two incomes to make things stick together. This is just a handshake for them. Yes, there are some municipalities that provide a subsidy. This is not a grant, it is an employment allowance and, by the way, up to a higher value than what some municipalities provide as a grant. This is kind of something that can be given over a wide comb, and then it's up to the 109,200 kroner. But I would really like to hear from the Minister why the Social Democrats do not want to give the families who choose not to burden the public, a better choice to look after the children at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151218	As I have said, there is already the possibility today that through the municipalities we can get a subsidy to look after our children ourselves. Then I do not think that the Community should, in addition, contribute a large three-digit sum of millions. In fact, I also believe that the rapporteur ignores the ability of Danish families to plan their family life when the rapporteur postulates that everyone is doing so per year. definition is tense to a wagon and subject to two revenues. It's up to the families to make that planning themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151258	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur, Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151306	Thank you for the floor. There should be no doubt that we in the Left are very much in favour of the money having to follow the children's family, who must have the money normally provided by the municipality for child care themselves. The modern family must have the freedom to choose whether to take care of children in a public day offer, in a private day offer or in the home in the form of home care. New citizens' proposals are to introduce a child care allowance of up to DKK 109,200. a year to parents if the child does not use a public day offer while it is aged 6-36 months. I do not doubt that the intention of the motion for a resolution is good, but it seems that it has gone a little too fast to write the motion for a resolution. There are a lot of unanswered questions. I could list in a row, but here are the essentials: How much does New Citizens' childcare allowance cost? How will New Citizens finance the childcare allowance? And what about requirements for Danish knowledge? Today, municipalities can choose to provide a subsidy for the care of their own children, but the grant can be granted for a maximum period of 1 year. New citizens' childcare allowances can be used from the age of 6-36 months. This means that the proposal will drag many parents out of the labour market for a long time. The consequence will be a lower supply of labour and fewer tax revenues. It might be interesting to know how much it costs. Now I understand that the Minister of Taxation has said that it will cost a three-digit million euro. That is the closest thing I have been able to come up with so far. That's a lot of money. How are you going to finance it? We'd like to know. However, regardless of the price, there is nothing in the proposal on where the money will come from. In these times, when billions are rolling out of the treasury, it seems paradoxical and slightly inappropriate that you have made such an unfunded proposal. Right now we have enough to spend the money on. Funny enough, New Citizens' proposals do not include a requirement for Danish knowledge either. We in the Left are concerned that the proposed deduction will be widely used by immigrant families. In that case, integration will be affected when there is no demand for Danish knowledge that is otherwise required in the daily offer law. In fact, it is a little surprising and perhaps also a little comical, I think that it is New Citizens who are making a proposal that almost purposefully works to support immigrant families but fair enough. All in all, it is a motion for a resolution which is going back to the workshop. There are far too many loose ends and unanswered questions. That is why the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151550	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151554	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Well, that's about as much as it's been answered. Depends on how many families choose to make use of this. There has been a cautious estimate, but it all depends on how many people use it. But the funding is absolutely clear. So, Denmark spends over 10 billion. kr. Every year to support the green transition, and this is not, in fact, a state task, so that amount could be used, for example. use to give families a real freedom of choice. And with regard to the Danish knowledge, the immigrant families who live in these ghetto areas who do not speak Danish and who are on public support cannot, of course, make use of this proposal. But I would really like to touch on this, because the last time we dealt with a similar proposal in this Chamber, the rapporteur of the Left was extremely positive and actually made an instagram post, and I quote: you are not a bad mother because you want to go to work, and you are not a bad mother if you want to go home while the children are young. Unfortunately, there is a great difference between the possibilities of opting for home care in the country's municipalities. I will personally fight to put an end to this. Has the Left suddenly changed its attitude in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151708	The Left has by no means changed its position. We do not want to know what is best for the individual family in terms of flexible care provision and a lot of other things. But I must honestly admit that when you come up with a proposal which will then have to be financed by the green transition, although New Citizens well know that we are very many parties concerned with the green transition, it seems a little like an inappropriate funding proposal, because that way you know that we cannot support it. So the only question is whether it is something you propose to provoke or whether it is something you really want to do, because then, as in a relationship, you would seek cooperation. We're almost gonna work around the door where we share offices and stuff, so you could do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151754	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151756	I think that is something very strange to say. The rapporteur asks whether we can indicate where the money might be taken from, and then I give a fairly specific example of where some of the money can be taken from. Well, the wise men are in Information not so long ago just gone in and have assigned it here, so they have said that you can spend the money much, much smarter than spending it on supporting the green transition. But the last time we were in this debate, the Left's argument against a similar proposal, which we debated in the Chamber back in January, was that it was a benefit. Now this is an employment allowance, it is a tax rebate which the Left, as a civil party, ought to support. Why doesn't the Left do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151839	I think it is a bit funny to come up with a funding proposal which is well known that a majority of all parties cannot support. Well, then you have to go back and look at it again. Right now, we are in a situation where we are actually spending so much money and are in a crisis and spending out of the ordinary, and then you come up with a proposal that will cost, it was a three-digit million dollars, without really finding a funding proposal. I think that is unrealistic. On the other hand, we can talk about how to make the municipalities' grants more compulsory or something else. We could have a talk about that, but that's not what this is about. But if you asked me that, I'd be positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151921	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505151927	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party, we attach great importance to giving families more freedom and more opportunity to care for their own young children, and we have made several proposals to support that development. Because it is best if the families who want to take care of their children themselves can have the opportunity to do so, because it is far from always healthy and it is actually unfortunate for some harmful people to get into an institution at a very early age. So we fully support the intention to strengthen the family and give more opportunity to look after our young children themselves. However, there are a large number of uncertainties and problems with the specific proposal here, such as: The rapporteur of the Left has mentioned this. However, what strikes us at the nail, which means that we cannot support it, is that we believe that this risks promoting parallel societies, because there are no language requirements, and because some of the public services that immigrants often enjoy are on the Internet, for example. the integration benefit is not mentioned here. I don't know if it's just a mistake and that it should have been included. But if you as an immigrant family live outside a ghetto, you will be able to have access to this deduction and thus have the opportunity to keep your children out of a Danish language everyday, and we do not think that is wise. We would very much like to avoid the strengthening of parallel societies which do not speak Danish. So, although we are in every way in favour of proposals that can support the family, we believe that this is the wrong way to do it, because you have to put in a lot of demands that make immigrant families, and especially immigrant families, where you do not speak Danish, do not isolate their children in the home and thus ensure that they are not integrated sufficiently. For these reasons, we will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152138	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152141	Thank you so much. But I think that is really a pity, because I know that we share this desire to make it much more possible for Danish families to stay at home and take care of their children in the first important years. It is very clear that this is an employment allowance on wage income. That means that if you're on passive support, if you're on transfer income, whatever kind of transfer income it is, you can't use this deduction. So that is really the answer to one of the rapporteur's questions. To the Danish language, I would say, as I said to the rapporteur of the Left before, that those who live in ghetto areas which are on passive public support, which do not speak the language, obviously cannot make use of this proposal. But I also think it is a little naive only to link it to a language requirement; just because you speak the Danish language does not mean that you are integrated into Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152238	No, that's exactly right. However, making a proposal that makes it easier for people who already have little interest in integrating into Denmark to stay outside the rest of society is not going to work. I thought it was something that New Citizens put the emphasis on, that is, that people should be integrated into the Danish culture. Here we have a proposal that goes exactly against it. I find that very unfortunate. So you have to put in this proposal if it's going to have some time on land integrationally and linguistically, with a lot of language requirements. In addition, however, there are all the other problems which the rapporteur of the Left has mentioned, namely that it is costly and that it is not sufficiently defined. There are other reasons why we cannot support it, but this is the main reason, because we believe that integration is extremely important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152332	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152334	I'm just wondering. This is a proposal that rewards working families. It is targeted working families with a relatively reasonable income. This means that if you go around on cash benefits in these different ghetto areas and don't contribute to Danish society, you won't get anything out of it. So that door is closed. All the previous questions about funding, how much it costs, Danish knowledge, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152411	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152414	I cannot understand that objection at all. It doesn't matter which income group and what level of employment you have, because if you don't want to speak Danish or teach your children Danish, then there is an integration problem. So it is not enough that you live outside a ghetto and that one parent has a payroll. It is not, of course, a sufficient guarantee that you will be integrated into Danish society. You can easily continue a lack of knowledge of Danish and Danish cultural standards in a family that lives outside a ghetto. I'm afraid that's possible. That is why it is absolutely essential to make some language requirements in such a proposal if it is to have some time on land and not harm integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152500	There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Kathrine Ollyday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152509	Thank you so much. In the Radical Left we also find this proposal very interesting, and we also agree a long way along the basics of the freedom of parents to choose how they will care for their children. Because there are challenges in bringing family life into harmony with working life, and there are pressured families for children, and there are parents who go to work with stomach pain after having handed their children in, and we in the Radical Left believe that we will solve this by creating better day care institutions, ensuring bottom-up paternity leave and organising working life more flexibly, not by shutting parents out of the labour market and paying them to take care of their children at home. Although we agree with the principle of free choice, we do not think it is the duty of tax payers to pay for that choice, and it is also extremely expensive. So why do we need tax dollars to compensate people for not working? Because they must be free to go home with the children, and it really is a perfectly okay choice if they pay themselves, but society spends the money wisely by spending them at good day care institutions instead. So the Radical Left cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152628	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152636	Thank you. It's a little special to have to stand down here and give the speech, but that's the way it has to be. Thanks to New Citizens for bringing the focus on society's smallest and the Danish families, it is also a topic that is very close to the SF's heart. The Socialist People's Party cannot support the proposal, as we do not believe that parents should be paid by the state in the form of a tax credit to care for their own children. Today there is the possibility that the individual municipality can exceptionally pay the parents to go home with their children. It is a system in which the municipalities can assess on a case-by-case basis whether there are any special conditions that apply to the individual family situation and on the basis of a professional assessment whether a domestic parent is right for the individual family situation. We think this is a good arrangement in which the skilled staff in each municipality take a stand on a case-by-case basis, and I have great faith and believe that they should continue to have that opportunity. In the SF we fully understand it if parents for one reason or another give priority to going home or going on reduced working hours, which I personally believe can be healthy or good for many for a period of time, and I would like to discuss how we can create more peace in our society through reduced working hours or more sick days for parents when the child is ill, but I believe that such a proposal should be fully funded and the money certainly should not come from our day care institutions. In Denmark, we have some of the world's best day care institutions with professional staff who for several years have qualified and trained to create safe children's communities where there is room for development and play. It is important for the SF that we continue to support our day care institutions and skilled staff so that they can continue to do their work in a secure and secure environment without fearing that the financial basis will be pulled away from underneath those whose parents take their children out of the institutions. If we are to have more peace in our society, it is vital that we also invest in our day-to-day services; there must be enough educational staff to ensure that all children have the care, the presence and the security they need, and that is why we have fought for minimum standards in the financial legislation negotiations, because of course it is important that parents do not have stomach pain when they deliver their child because there are not enough educators. We also fear in the SF that this proposal from New Citizens will create problems from the perspective of equality, as there are still both structures and standards that pressure women to take the greater part of the responsibility for children. And if more women go back home without being associated with the labour market for several years, it will often be difficult to get back, especially to a high-paid position. In the same way, in a relationship between a man and a woman, you will see that the man earns a pension which the woman will not be able to do as she goes home. The Socialist People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152917	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505152920	Thank you. I would just like to correct the rapporteur because there were some things that the rapporteur had clearly misunderstood. After all, this is not about someone being paid by the state; it is about going away from work to look after your own children and thereby being allowed to pay less taxes to the state. But that is, I think, the common difference between being a citizen and being a red and a socialist. No one will be put at a disadvantage with our proposal. We are just giving families a really free choice to take care of their children at home, if that is what they want. Then you can choose to put your child in day care if that is what you want, but families have a really free choice. I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur believes that it is up to the state to decide that all parents should have their children in day care.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153011	No, that is not true, because I also pointed out that it is possible to have special arrangements locally, so it is clear that different forms of home care are available today. What I said was not that you are being paid, but that you are being paid in the form of a tax credit, so I think what I said was quite correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153032	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153034	I do not entirely agree with that, but again I believe that this is the fundamental difference between being a citizen and a socialist. In any case, we believe quite clearly that families should also be given the opportunity to adapt more economically as they would like. However, I became a little curious about the equality aspect raised by the rapporteur. The rapporteur has now mentioned, among other things: This is the economic distribution thing. Does the rapporteur think that the financial distribution of income between parents is more important than the fact that parents can actually make the decisions they consider to be best for them and their children?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153115	I do not think that is quite the way it can be done, but I think it is actually quite central when we make such a policy here that we are also considering what consequences it has for equality. I am sorry to say that this is the case, for example. may be financial incentives for women to take care of the child if they make such a scheme, because unequal pay is still one thing in our society. Unfortunately, we also have gender roles that may pressure women to take care of children more than men want, and I would think that was a problem, and that is why it was also an aspect that I mentioned in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153148	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and then the next rapporteur from the Enhedslisten is, and that is Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153154	There are many families of children who experience an incredibly stressful everyday life, and some of us know about it every day. It is a situation where there is enormous pressure: you have to get up early; you have to fix everything; and then you have to suck off to the day care centre; then the kids have to be handed in; then we whip off to work; and then you have to pick them up in a hurry; and then there are a lot of things to do when you get home; and then they have to be put to bed, and that's not always fun, even for the children. So it is very good to look at how we get a family policy that gives children's families more time to be together in everyday life. But this can be done in many ways: one can do it in relation to making improved maternity arrangements; one can do it in relation to making improved parental leave arrangements; one could look at giving an extended right to be at home during children's illness; one can make a general shortening of working hours and work for it. There's a lot of grip you can grab. But we from Enhedslisten are not very excited about the model, where the money follows the child in this B proposal via a tax credit. The Danish daily offers ensure that children can become part of the community, and we think that the money we have as a community should be spent on strengthening our day care institutions, as we among other things. have also done in the 2020 Finance Act, where we have given a significant boost to the whole area of day-care. And we want this to be the way we spend the money rather than giving special support to parents who want to take care of their children at home. In addition, I feel very well covered by the comments made by the Minister for Taxation, as the Socialist rapporteur had, but also by what the rapporteur for the SF said. I would add, however, that I have now been in a debate down here in the Chamber and listened to Mr. Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is a very good rapporteur, and is there something, Mr. Boje Mathiesen? Lars Boje Mathiesen mentions every time we're down here, it's that we have to look at how to make more simple tax rules and how to avoid more bureaucracy. And here we are dealing with a proposal which will complicate the tax system, which will be difficult to administer, and in which you will also have to look at some safeguards, in relation to people not being able to receive both a deduction and a subsidy. So there will simply be a great deal of bureaucracy of the boring kind that will follow a proposal like this. So I'm thinking that this is not really a proposal that is in Lars Boje Mathiesen's spirit compared to what he usually makes as one of his main arguments down here. With those comments, I must say that the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153443	Then there is a brief comment. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153445	Thank you for that final remark. I can assure the rapporteur that it is very much in the spirit of Lars Boje Mathiesen, because Lars Boje Mathiesen also has children, and he also wants Danish families to have much better opportunities to adapt as they would like to do today. I would therefore like to say that I can hear from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the Enhedslisten is calling for dance with regard to a general lowering of the tax burden, and new citizens are happy to report in. We would very much like to be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153516	In fact, we do not have a policy for the tax burden to rise in general terms. I mean, tax is a means of achieving a goal which is, of course, the society in which we want to live. However, we have a desire to make a tax change in which we would like to see an increase in the personal allowance for people with small incomes. This applies to both people who are in work and those who are outside the labour market, and our thinking differs slightly from what is in the proposal here. To finance it, we will then make a higher and therefore more reasonable tax on those who earn the most in our society, among other things. by looking at a more reasonable taxation of inheritance, wealth and the highest incomes. However, we would very much like to take a look at how to grant tax relief to those who earn the least. Now there has been a debate about whether this is something that should benefit immigrant families. I would rather say that with the distributional profile that will be here, that is, who can make the maximum use of this tax credit, it is at least also some Hørsholmfrus, which this will be very much targeted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153614	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153616	So, as I actually started by answering one of the rapporteurs, I can't even remember who it is that ordinary Danish families can make use of this; who are stuck in this hamster wheel because you depend on having two incomes to make it all work together, precisely because we have such a huge tax burden in Denmark. This is a financial handout for them. Generally speaking, we would like to reduce the tax in general. It is a very, very heartfelt wish of New Citizens. So, for all parties that bid in with a general reduction in taxes, I would say: we are very, very concerned about that, we would very much like to look at that. But has the Enhedslisten ever made these requests for a debate on finance law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153700	We have not proposed, in connection with the 2020 Finance Act, to make what I am talking about here with a higher personal allowance for people with small incomes, but we have played it out several times, including in public. That is our policy and we want to change it, so there should be no doubt about it. This will give a more sensible and also socially fair tax system. In relation to the fact that this is supposed to be ordinary Danes, I just have to say that with the way it's screwed up here, you have to have a relatively large income in order to make full use of the deduction. And it will also be the case that in families where both parents have an income, you will also have better opportunities to do so. So there is also a bias in relation to families with single parents. So I do not think it can be said that it is as broad a proposal as is being expressed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153753	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153800	The Enhedslisten often says, when we talk about tax policy, that Enhedslisten wants to lighten the tax at the bottom of the income scale. Now we have established that the Enhedslisten in the financial law negotiations for 2020 has not asked for tax relief at the bottom of the income scale. - Sir... Rune Lund tells us, in connection with which of the Finance Act agreements from 2011 to 2015, where Enhedslisten was a support party for a Social Democratic government, that Enhedslisten in the Finance Act negotiations asked to have the tax relieved at the bottom?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153837	Our proposal to make a tax restructuring so that we grant a tax relief to them at the bottom, we presented in January 2016, and it has been applicable policy ever since, and it is still gone. So we have not presented it in the financial law negotiations from 2011 to 2015. However, we have, in relation to the proposal, which is good, among other things. a challenge with the calculator used in the Ministry of Finance, because even if our proposal grants tax relief to people so that they get more money in their hands, it is the case that because there is an escalation of the deduction that we are proposing from income from DKK 300,000. at DKK 350,000, then in that range you will experience an increasing marginal tax, because the deduction will be reduced. And if there is something that the Treasury calculator hates with the calculation methods used now, then it is increasing marginal taxes, because they have a very negative effect on labour supply. So right now it is a very expensive proposal with the undocumented calculation methods used in the Ministry of Finance. So even if people get more money between their hands, even if the poorest people earn at least more money between their hands, it still has a negative effect on the Treasury calculator. So that is one of the obstacles we are facing at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153944	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505153946	Well, unfortunately we have not yet been asked to do so in a budget debate. Can one expect that the Enhedslisten in the Financial Law negotiations in autumn 2020 for the financial year 2021 will have it as a key requirement for the financial law negotiations that the tax should be lightened for people at the bottom of the income scale?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154006	I cannot, of course, stand here and promise what our financial requirements are, but I can say that we will be very active if we can make an alliance with the Liberal Alliance, where we can also agree on the source of funding for what is a higher taxation of inheritance, higher taxation of the highest incomes and higher taxation of wealth, all three proposals that will increase equality in our society. Some of that revenue will then be used to give tax relief to those who have the least in our society. So if we can make an alliance here up to the Finance Act, it could be an interesting couple race.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154032	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from Conservatives, and that is Mr Conservatives. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154056	Thank you very much. It is therefore exciting to see that an entirely new alliance is emerging outside block politics. I would say that I think this proposal at first sight is very, very interesting. There are good conservative core values in it. I can see that the party has not completely forgotten its conservative roots. But having said that, as both the Danish People's Party and the Left have said, there are such challenges in this. Especially the part about the risk of immigrant families leaving the mother at home in a family where you may only speak Arabic, thus teaching the child not to come out and learn proper Danish. Now it is not the case that all immigrant families are on transfer income. There may also be some where the husband is at work and thus with this proposal lets the wife go home and speak a different language from Danish at home. I do not think it takes that into account in the way it is formulated here. I am sorry to sound like a repeat of the Left, but when it is proposed that funding should come from the green transition, it is certainly something with which we in the Conservatives find it very difficult. So we support the intention in this, but unfortunately we cannot back up because of the issues I have outlined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154159	Thank you. There is just one brief comment. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154204	Thank you so much. But I will clarify it again, also for this rapporteur: no one can benefit from this opportunity if you live in one of these ghetto areas as an immigrant family and are on public support, none of them. It is in fact to clarify it. We cannot talk about integration solely on the basis of a language requirement. There are indeed many examples of people who are in no way integrated and who speak Danish. So this focuses on working families, families who are in employment and who have an income. It could be a policeman, for example. Pretty common Danish families. But it is not targeted on anyone who is on any form of public support. So I'd like to deny that right away. What I mentioned earlier about the green conversion is that the subsidies you give to support this green conversion are, of course, what the wise men go out and actually say does not really have any effect. So that is where we believe that the subsidies that the wise men think could also be used more wisely. So that's what we use for, among other things. to allocate funding. However, if the Conservative People's Party thinks this is important, then we are very open to proposals, including from the Conservative People's Party, about where else the funding could be found if they could back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154327	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154328	Thank you. I'm sorry I just moved a little right here. It's all alone because of the microphone. I fully agree that this is not formulated to reach out to immigrant families. I can figure out New Citizen wouldn't do that. But there's like a pattern here. Danish People's Party, Left, Conservatives all see the same problem in that some immigrant families could use this to develop a worse form of integration. I am just saying the same thing as the other rapporteurs from the blue bloc, at least on the part of the two parties, and that is that it is part of the problem. I'm sorry to repeat myself. I think that is a fine intention, but as it is formulated here, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154412	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154414	As the rapporteur began by saying, this should be a proposal actually put forward by the Conservative People's Party. It's good, solid bourgeois family policy. It will not benefit immigrant families who are outside the labour market and who are not integrated, etc. It's not going to benefit at all. This is targeted Danish families who are in employment, quite ordinary Danish families, where father e.g.. is a policeman or something else that actually wants to take care of their children at home in the first important years. That should be conservative core policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154450	But that is also why we commend the proposal. We have done the same in the media. But with the way it is formulated, it has some imbalances that simply make us unable to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154501	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505154506	Thank you. It is a landmark event for people when they have children, and I think that many have experienced the same thing I have experienced, namely that before you have children, you can have some ideas that some specific ways to do it with raising children and influencing children are the best. There are certainly also ways of doing this that are better than others, but eventually you also get an understanding that children are different, and so are parents, and that this diversity is also reflected in the fact that parents train differently and that children need different things in life. Some of us have children who are robust and have much out of association with children other than their parents, also in the early years. At least we imagine that, and we send our children to crèches, and things are going really well, we think, and I'm sure it is. While others are of the opinion that their children, however, were better off being a little longer at home in a safe and quiet setting with parents, one or possibly both if they are working at home. There is our system in Denmark that has been praised so much by the tax minister today and by the rest of the red block just not a system that suggests that families can do things differently. It is a system that provides for families to make things the same. All families have to pay a fair amount of tax, and in return they can get some benefits from the public sector, which is like a refund for all the taxes they have paid. For children's families, the good thing is that you can have your children cared for with a very large public subsidy and a relatively small self-payment. It's good for all people, we've heard from the tax minister, and it's good for all children and society etc., because that's just it; it's just the best of the best. But the experience with the parents is just that not all children benefit from this, and not all parents think it's the right way to do it. That is why this proposal from the New Citizens' Party, we think, is a very good proposal which allows families who do not want their children cared for during the first three years of public life to avoid paying a little less in tax, so that they have a surplus in the family to come up with something alternative. Something could be that you hire your own child care at home. Another possibility could be to work less, possibly in shifts, so that parents can take care of the children. We are very open to that. We've heard the tax minister say it's gonna cost a three-digit million dollars. I am not sure that this is quite right and that it has been calculated in the right way, because if you only calculate it as an extra tax cost, then you can probably arrive at it, but if you expect that there may be a lot of families who not only get a tax rebate but also save the public the cost of childcare, which is about the same level as this deduction, then I am not sure that the amount is as large as the tax minister is going to charge. In any case, it is a proposal that will make life better and more flexible, with the possibility of greater individual adaptation for families with children, and that is why we will support it. Then I would like to say to the objections from the Left and the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives that this could lead to the fact that in immigrant families, where you do not speak a proper Danish, you want to keep your children at home, and that the children do not have the opportunity to learn Danish in the day nurseries either, that I think it would be a relatively small number of families where that is true, but let us finally heal the proposal and say that you also have to meet some language requirements. We can do that with an amendment and then the goat is shaved. Then there are no problems anymore, and then you three parties will be able to vote in favour of the proposal, and I think that is interesting. I assume that you three parties are tabling the amendment so that you have no objections to it any longer, and then we can all vote in favour of it in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505155000	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The last speaker to wind up the debate is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505155010	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance, which wholeheartedly supports this proposal. Thank you, too. Ole Birk Olesen for the excellent proposal, and I understand that if this little thing was changed, there was actually fairly broad support in the blue block for this bourgeois family policy initiative. So, of course, I shall look forward to that; we are very open to that. I am surprised, may I say, that the Conservative People's Party does not support this, because this is a classic bourgeois family policy. It is also a pity that the Danish People's Party does not support it. The Danish People's Party itself suggested a model where it was a performance, and even though this performance was not something that had grown in our garden, we actually backed up because we thought the intention behind it was really good. For it is important that far more parties recognise the importance of allowing families in Denmark again to choose more freely, that the state decides less, and that the Danes decide much more for themselves, also over much more of their own money. I am also very sorry that the Left does not support this proposal, since the rapporteur for the children of the Left has been very enthusiastic about this proposal and has actually advocated a similar solution to Instagram itself. It really annoys me. Because what we're dealing with today is a real family play. It is a proposal that gives Danish families much better opportunities to adapt as they wish. We know that the first 1,000 days of a child's life are crucial for the child's development and well-being, both now and in the future. It is all the central aspects of the foundation of life that are founded for the first 0-3 years. Security and proximity are essential, and especially is family security. Danish families are big consumers of institutions. In 2014, 64 per cent were employed. of Danish children between 0 and 2 years more than 30 hours per week in institution, which is a European first place. In Norway, the country in second place, only 44 per cent are spent. of the children the same time in institution. In Denmark we also have a clear world record in sending children early today. This is certainly an expression of many different factors, but there is a movement going on: More and more Danish families want to be able to take care of their children at home. The main thing here is not whether you choose day care or home care early in the children's lives. I personally had both my boys in a nice daycare centre with talented staff and plenty of closeness and care, and at that time I also had a job where I could pick them up early. It was possible for me, but if I had had this opportunity, I probably would have kept them at home a little longer when they were very young. The main thing here is that it must be up to the individual family to adapt as they wish. Many families today are captured by the competition state. They depend on two incomes and therefore find it difficult, although it is a wish, to look after children at home for the first important years. It is simply not economically possible for the vast majority of people, and that is what we want to change. That is why we are putting forward this proposal, which will allow families to adapt much more than they want today if they want to take care of their children in their early years. If your mother or father wants your child cared for at home, your spouse or partner will receive an employment allowance of up to DKK 9,000. a month after tax, plus that the family saves their own money in day care, day care or day care. It is different how one chooses to adapt as a family, and it is different what is the priority of the individual family, but we know that mothers in particular experience a guilty conscience over not spending enough time with their children, and I know it well, i.e. the bad conscience. Therefore, it must of course also be easier for Danish families to take care of their children at home for the first important time • much easier than it is today. It must be easier to set up as a family as you wish, and that is what this proposal is all about. I have said before that I am very pleased that the Liberal Alliance is backing up, and I am sorry, however, that not all parties in the Folketing will support giving Danish families more freedom. I do not understand why the politicians in here constantly feel the need to control the Danes' lives. Now let the Danes decide much more for themselves, also over much more of their own money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505155533	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505155536	It is a question of just saying that it is a very good idea to add an amendment that language requirements should be incorporated into this resolution. But even if you do, it will not be enough for the Danish People's Party to be able to vote in favour, because we still believe that a large number of other things need to be clarified. So I would suggest that we come back with a new motion for a resolution which takes account of all these things, that is to say that we have the funding in place and have clarified whether it should apply to married and cohabitants and what should happen to people who may lose their jobs and go from being in employment to getting on a transfer income, etc., etc. There are, in fact, plenty of things that we do not think are sufficiently worked out and that will have to be considered. After all, we share the overall objective of allowing more children to be cared for in their own homes, because it increases security and it is good for the personality and self-esteem, etc., etc., but we do not want to harm integration or support an unclearly formulated resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505155647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505155649	Thank you so much. I do not think that this proposal is vaguely worded. Our clear position is that for many years a lot of patch solutions have been made, and we do not want to make any more patching solutions; we will sort out the immigration policy from scratch. We also believe that integration is a personal responsibility. It is nothing that either state or municipality should give money to. But to clarify this, I would like to say that married and cohabitants are the same. It's about family I actually think that I also said it in my speech so it's kind of like that whether you're married or you're cohabiting, you can make use of it. The funding I have given is what I have set out to do. For example, more than 10 billion are given. kr. in subsidies to support the green transition annually in Denmark, and then you could easily take some of the money from there. The wise men have been out to say that this is not a very effective way to spend the money. So that is just our proposal, but as I have said before, you can offer if there are other places that you think you could take the money from. We have plenty of suggestions about that, and this is one of them. So the funding is also in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505155802	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505155804	It is not enough for us to get it in oral form. If we are to support a motion for a resolution, it is clear that it will have to be more thorough and more precise, i.e. more limited. And a single amendment in the linguistic field is not enough. So even if we have sympathy for the main idea, we will still not be able to support it with just the individual amendment in the language field. So I just think that we need to come back with a new, more well-worked resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505155834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505155836	Well, I don't agree. In this way, I have answered all the questions put by the rapporteur. The proposal, which we also talked about warmly, which came from the Danish People's Party, also had a great deal where, what to say, the right people did not necessarily catch in. This isn't about patching up; it's about getting things sorted out from the bottom up, and it's about the immigration policy, that we have to solve the immigration policy from the bottom up. And then we have to ensure that Danish families have far better opportunities to adapt than they do today, and that is what this proposal is all about (fourth Vice-President Thank you!). And if you live in a ghetto area, and if you don't speak Danish and you're on transfer income as we see these immigrant families be, then you won't be able to make use of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505155919	The next brief remark is from Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505155924	I would just like to make a clarification, because it might sound as if New Citizens are in the belief that there will be an amendment in the near future. There we are not quite, and the reason why we are not is first the language requirement, which I understand you might see that there is something in it. In other words, we believe that it poses some challenges that this language requirement has not been made. That is one thing. But the other thing is all the funding. The rapporteur now points to the green transition, and we are, after all, parties that think that the green transition is really important, so it is not there that we can agree that funding should lie. In addition, there is a lot of doubt as to what this really costs. The tax minister says a three-digit million dollars, and that'll be a lot of money we're going to find, and we're not just doing that with a fingertips.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505160021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505160023	Well, I just have to say that it's a little bit funny. Now I have been in a lot of negotiations in connection with these aid packages, among others. with the Left, and it has been the Left that has every single time wanted more money, more money, more money into the public sector. So it's kind of funny. At that time, I thought it was strange to experience this from the side of a bourgeois party, and then I think it is strange that one would not even help to give a real tax relief to families with children who want to take care of their children at home. In fact, I find that very difficult to understand. But no, I don't really recognize it. So, as far as the language requirements are concerned, I would say that if that is all that stands in the way, then we can talk about it. Once again, I believe that there will be patching up the patch solution for patching. We would rather solve the problems from the bottom up, and of course we hope that the Left will also contribute to this: full arrest for asylum, the consistent expulsion of criminal foreigners after the first sentence, that all foreigners must support themselves, that integration is a personal responsibility and not a task of state or local government. And then we should let the families of children have the opportunity to take care of their children at home, instead of bringing patchwork solutions, and instead of making bad excuses.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505160132	Thank you. Is there a brief comment? Anne Honoré Østergaard Yes, it is there). You gotta keep in touch.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505160135	We already have a very good solution, an optional solution, in the municipalities, and we in the Left would very much like to discuss whether it can be improved or whether we can do something about it. However, the rapporteur himself says that right now we are talking aid packages. The country is in crisis, so you can discuss whether it is right now that this proposal has to come, because it is going to cost money. It sounds like it's going to cost a lot of money. And we in the Left are very concerned that there is really a lot of unemployment right now and that the country is in crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505160215	Thank you. I know it is a very awkward situation to have to talk like this, but I would ask Mrs Mette Thiesen to speak into the microphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505160224	Thank you very much, Mr President. Well, not all municipalities are offering this at this time. It is not all municipalities that are offering this, and I simply have to say that it is precisely now that we have to do this, because it is precisely now that we have to give the families that opportunity. There are a lot of families out there who have actually got a taste for this and think: How nice that I have had the opportunity to go home with my children. So it is precisely now that we have to give them that opportunity. There are, in fact, municipalities for which it will really be a huge help if we do this right now, precisely because they have better room in their day care institutions, i.e. if more parents choose to take care of their children at home. So this is the time for us to do this. This is the moment we have to support this. I therefore believe that the rapporteur's argument does not stand up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505160310	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505160330	As was the case with the previous paragraphs, before starting the negotiations, I must point out that we in the Bureau have decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. So you talk from your own place. Most rapporteurs already know this. The amendment therefore involves speaking both ministers and rapporteurs and members with brief comments from the seats. For the purpose of drawing up the minutes, it is very important that you do not start talking until the red ring on your microphone lights up. As usual, you will be able to see your remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The debate is open and I would like to give the floor to the Minister for the Environment first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505160443	Thank you for that and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the Social Democratic Party supports the level of ambition in the work to ensure a cleaner air for the Danes. Over the past 30 years, Denmark has experienced a marked fall in air pollution. Both air quality measurements and emissions inventories show that things are moving in the right direction. The latest air surveillance report from Aarhus University also confirms this. Overall, air quality in Denmark is among the best in Europe. During the corona crisis, too, we have seen a major fall in air pollution due to the decline in our society's activity. This is particularly true of road traffic. Aarhus University has analysed the latest measurements, which show that the concentration of NO X on average on heavily trafficked roads in large cities. Aarhus University has also estimated that the fall in air pollution as a result of the corona crisis saves around 80 premature deaths. Of these, approximately two thirds are estimated to be related to a reduction in emissions from road traffic abroad, and one third from road traffic at home. However, the fall in air pollution does not change the fact that too many Danes still die prematurely from air pollution, especially in large cities. In a busy street, the transport sector is typically the dominant source of air pollution, especially during peak hours. The WHO has declared that soot from diesel vehicles is carcinogenic and therefore it makes sense to reduce particulate pollution from diesel vehicles in the largest Danish cities. With our understanding paper • Reasonable direction for Denmark • the tracks are set to switch the transport sector to a more green direction for the benefit of both the climate and the environment. In the motion for a resolution we are debating today, the proposers propose to give local authorities the power to introduce stricter environmental zones for diesel passenger cars and to establish zero-emission zones in neighbourhoods. The motion for a resolution has been tabled, among other things. at the request of local authorities, and I welcome the fact that municipalities want to strengthen efforts for cleaner urban air and that they focus on reducing the health effects of polluting vehicles. The government and I, as Minister for the Environment, take air pollution and our health very seriously. We need clean air in our cities, and here it is natural to look at how we can set up environmental zones in the future. The government continues to share the ambition of the 2019 report given by the Social Democracy, Radical Left, SF, Enhedslisten and Alternative, including our common line on strengthening environmental zones. Nulemission zones are not a common denominator in the 2019 report. Nulemission zones in demarcated areas are an exciting idea, but there are still things that we do not have full clarity about, for example. the total environmental effects of zero emission zones. Nor do we have a full overview of the legal, economic and mobility challenges. Last week, we first dealt with a bill on digital enforcement of environmental zones. In fact, the bill was an implementation of our parliamentary decision of May last year, yet the government has chosen to make a number of minor changes. With the legislative proposal, we are equalising Euro V, we are tightening enforcement and we are advancing the particulate filter requirement for over 3,000 trucks and buses. This will give us a smaller but better environmental impact on the air and the citizens. But about two thirds of the air pollution that we breathe in Denmark comes from abroad. On the part of the government, it is of the highest priority to ensure that the new vehicles sold on the European market pollute the air as little as possible. Efforts to clean air in Danish cities are therefore closely linked to efforts to improve the European regulation. Here, the government continues to press to ensure that the emissions of cars are reduced and the pollution tests become as realistic as possible, and this also applies to workstations. With the natural replacement of the car park, we will therefore be constantly replacing the stock and will continue to improve the environment, just as we are working on a stop for sales of petrol and diesel cars by 2030. Cruise ships are also a contributor to air pollution. The government has put sustainable cruise tourism on the agenda during the Danish Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers here in 2020. We are working together on incentives to roll out land currents in the Nordic countries. I see that we are on a historic green mandate. We must do something about air pollution, which means that thousands of Danes are dying too soon. The government will ensure a transversal green transition of the transport sector. A Car Commission has been set up to provide recommendations on how best to ensure a green conversion of the passenger car park, and at the same time we are working on a climate action plan to deliver ambitious transport initiatives. The government does not support the motion for a resolution, but we agree that we must further strengthen our efforts for clean air when we agree on funding. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161000	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There are a few brief comments. Mr President, first of all, I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161009	I am, of course, grateful to the Minister for his positive attitude towards the intention, which is also following up on our report's contribution last year to the legislative proposal last April. And I think that the Minister fully examines all the correct arguments as to why this is needed. And then, inevitably, the question ends up: Why actually reject it? There are also arguments that much of air pollution comes from abroad, etc. etc. But I guess we still agree that environmental zones are a very good means, and this proposal is that the municipalities should be allowed to introduce these environmental zones. They do not have that today, and I am therefore surprised that the Minister is rejecting it, even though the Minister has all the right arguments as to why we should be doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161116	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161119	Thank you. I am glad, then, that the proposer and Enhedslisten bear in mind that I am positive that we should do something more to combat air pollution. For that is quite right, and we also agree with the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Radical Left and the Alternative, as I mentioned in the joint report last year, and we stand by that. But what I saw also said was that we must of course agree on the funding, and then there is also the fact, and I think everyone knows that during this period a corona crisis, which means that I cannot at this stage set a timetable for when we can do so. But that does not change the fact that we stand by what is agreed. I also mentioned very briefly that this zero-emission zone, which is also included in the proposal, is one of the places where we have said that it is an exciting proposal. But let us clarify what is really in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161216	Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161219	In other words, the issue of funding is true, and that is something that we will find out in a debate on the budget. But I have to ask what we are really talking about. I don't think that's a huge amount of money. It would probably not be very difficult for the support parties and the government to find the right amount. But in any case, I would like to put it as a written question: what is the cost of this? The Minister then says in his first reply that the government is working for an ongoing replacement of the car park. And I certainly hope that this will not be taken as an argument for more or less self-sustaining. Because it certainly doesn't. So I hope it wasn't meant to be that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161301	Minister of the Environment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161303	No, and just to start with the last thing, it didn't have to be understood that way. Because, as I also emphasised in my speech, we share the ambition that we should have cleaner air in Denmark. And the air pollution that exists, which means that thousands of Danes die prematurely, become ill with air pollution, we must have done something about it. I just mentioned some of the things that are going on and that we are working on, and this can be both in relation to the specific regulation here on the environment, but indeed also many of the other initiatives we are taking, both in relation to domestic air pollution, but also in relation to external air pollution. And I am very happy to answer the written question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161338	Thank you. The next one to which I would like to give the floor is Mr Spencer. Carl Valentin of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161343	Thank you. I think the Minister said a lot of sensible things in his speech. She spent most of her time talking about air pollution as a major problem, welcoming local authorities' reports on the desire to protect citizens better, and also sharing the ambition of the report we produced together a year ago. However, I do not think it was much that was said about why we then vote against. The primary reason I could hear was that you don't think you have an overview of zero emission zones, but are you going to get that overview? I think that might be interesting to know. In addition, reference is made to funding, and does this mean that when the government presents its draft budget next time, it will indicate a bid for funding that we can then offer? I also remember that we wrote in that report that we wanted to make sure that these initiatives were taken as soon as possible, but I think that as soon as possible we are about to be here almost a year after the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161439	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161441	Thank you for the question. In relation to zero-emission zones, I also tried to say in my speech that this is a proposal that has been put forward before and that it was not part of the joint report. It was because we in the Social Democratic Party also said at the time that there are plenty of questions in relation to zero-emission zones, that is an exciting idea, but we have not answered those questions yet, namely what the environmental effect is, if we do so, and what consequences it will have for the way in which cities are organised. I think that's one of the things we can dive into. But it is just to say that it is actually not one of the things that was contained in that report last year. However, I am quite prepared for us to be able to answer questions in relation to what we have and, incidentally, also to listen to what is important for the parties in this Chamber. To this point of impatience, I would say that I understand perfectly well that there may be an impatience when it comes to taking extra steps. I would say that we are also in the process, because, at the same time as this motion for a resolution is being discussed, we also have a legislative process going on in relation to environmental areas, in which we are advancing step demands on heavy traffic, which is also included in that report. So I can easily understand an impatience, but it's just to say that we're also working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161551	Sir. Carl Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161553	Thank you for that answer. It is quite true that zero emission zones were not part of the report, but if nothing else, I think it would be interesting to look at the possibility of introducing it and also get into depth with that idea. Because if the Minister now thinks it is an exciting idea and such, it would be great to get the overview that the Minister seems to be missing, because then it could be that we could make those decisions. And yes, that's absolutely right, we're pretty impatient in SF compared to this, so I hope something more happens in this area soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161627	Minister of the Environment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161629	Thank you. After all, I am dealing with the motion for a resolution, and therefore also with the idea of zero emission zones there, and I can only say that there are still a great many questions. That is why I am not going to reject a particularly exciting idea if it is the case that you could find a good model for it. It is also just to say that from the very beginning, where this has been presented as an idea, we in the Social Democratic Party have had a number of questions. And we have continued to do so, but I am also very prepared if the proposer or others have good examples from other cities or other things to look at, that we can then do it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161705	Thank you. The next one to which I would like to give the floor is Mr Spencer. René Christensen from DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161712	Thank you for that, President. In other words, politics is sometimes complicated and now the Minister is saying that this proposal is in fact good and that the Minister shares the intentions and everything. And you could fall in that. We could also stand here and talk about the circular economy and about the products we use, we should use completely, because then we will get the most climate for it; it is no use producing anything and then only use it for a short time and throw it away. We can't afford that anymore. The climate cannot bear that. If this proposal were implemented, there would be cars 6 to 7 years old that would really be useless. What, then, will be the climate impression compared to the fact that those cars are then to be scrapped or otherwise to be environmentally treated? In other words, we agree with the Minister's intentions, but does the Minister not also agree that it is a little more complicated than just doing something like this black and white in relation to banning these cars now? Because there has actually been a climate strain when these cars were produced, and how do we deal with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161805	Minister of the Environment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161807	I believe that what we are working on in relation to the environmental zones is quite similar to that of heavy traffic, i.e. that we are working on, for example. can mount a particulate filter and then continue to run in the cities. Then there is the idea of a zero-emission zone, and that is a slightly different idea, and that is also why I say that there are such a number of questions about what the proposer may have thought about, and I think that is good to get on the table. That is why it is not a rejection either, but it is just to say that it is in this way where social democracy has stood all the way. So I think it is important that we move forward in the fight for clean air in Denmark, and here we are, as I said, aware of what we agree with the other parties on in relation to last year's report, and this also includes strengthening environmental zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161850	René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161852	Thank you for your answer. But what I am saying is not really to go after the minister or the proposer; it is just to say that you cannot separate it and stand here and talk about the environment and air, and then, when you walk in another door, you talk about climate and climate stress and how we use the world's resources. We have to conceive of this, which is why this proposal cannot be left alone. Well, this also interferes with some other debates that we can have in another room. That is why such a proposal as this is suitable for a more thorough discussion of how it is we want climate and the environment together, in relation to when we look forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161925	Minister of the Environment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161927	Of course, I agree in part with that, i.e. that things are connected. But it is not the case in politics that because something you want to do in one area is linked to something else, it has to get in the way of moving in some areas before you have the full picture. I also know that the rapporteur knows all about the fact that sometimes we have to move forward, even if we do not necessarily have all the answers. So I think it is good that we can have the debate in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505161956	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There are no more brief comments. And then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mette Gjerskov from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505162005	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten and I would also like to apologise, because it is really strange to stand with my back to the rapporteur for the proposers and to say thank you very much for bringing this issue up. After all, air pollution is something that we are very concerned about. There are far too many Danes who become ill as a result of air pollution, and far too many die too soon. It is completely unreasonable that you can die from breathing. That is actually what happens in the case of air pollution. And it is clear that we must do everything we can to combat this. And the minister outlined how many initiatives and now I didn't even count those that actually lie on the government's side in terms of getting better air. The motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten hits a time when the municipalities themselves are increasingly concerned about being able to do something, and I think that it is spreading more and more into society that something needs to be done about air pollution. And I am extremely pleased about that, because it is quite unacceptable that you should die breathing. We expressed last year in the report, which several people have spoken about, on the proposal for a law amending the law on environmental protection, it is only if someone out there needs references on 30 April last year that we agreed on the issue of having the ambitious environmental zones and also on some very specific principles. But we did not quite agree with the zero emission zones. We do not think that this idea is fully thought out yet, but that does not change the fact that we are positive about discussing it. We have taken a lot of steps towards reducing air pollution, yes, it is not even a month ago, I think it is only a week and a half since we last had air pollution on the agenda, and it was about being faster to get heavy traffic out of cities and at least getting vehicles up to a higher Euronorm. I mean, I actually think a whole lot of things are being done, and these are just the first steps, because we need to move on. But we also need to move on in a way where we have financed things together. And I would very much like to be positive about the Enhedslisten today, but when you make a proposal and then even the first one in the Assembly, the Minister asks what it might cost, I do not think that you have done your legwork well enough anyway. Because it is in the proposal that it should say what it can cost and how it will be financed. But that does not change the fact that I am very, very open to any debate, and I am sure the Minister is, in that we can jointly find out how we can finance better measures to combat air pollution. And now it is that I need to know where the figure is that shows how much speaking time I have left there. So I've got a whole minute left, but it's a party! I simply think that I will put the speech down and then say that no one wants to see better air in Denmark more than the Social Democratic Party. This is simply an incredibly important task for us. It is an important task for the government. And I am very pleased that there are many other parties that share that view. But there's also a little bit of what I'm going to give Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party right in, and that is that we also have to think across. Fortunately, we know that there are some good things in relation to the climate, that there are some good things in relation to electric cars that can help here. So there are so many different agendas we need to have to deal with a higher unit, so it is good for the climate as well as good for air pollution. I'm sure we can work really well together on that. We cannot support this resolution, but that does not change the fact that we are very, very much in agreement with the ambition. We have signed it ourselves, and we still think so, and we will continue to think so. And I am sure that we will have enough to do with finding common proposals in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505162508	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Normally it is uneducated to talk with your back to each other, but in the circumstances here we have to do so because you cannot hear it very well in the microphones if it is that you talk to the side. Now Mrs Mette Gjerskov spoke loud and clear, but I would ask you to speak directly to the microphone, even if it is with the back of the proposers. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505162537	Just to take it there with funding: we have no prerequisites for counting on what this costs, and that is why we ask the Minister. In fact, we should have had that figure on the table a long time ago, when we have made this joint contribution to the report last year and the Social Democrats took over government posts in June. But I guess we're gonna get a number on the table, and then we're gonna have to see how much it costs. I do not think we are talking about a great many bassoons, and it should be possible to find it by means of a financial bill debate that I mentioned. However, the proposal in its essence is that the municipalities should have the opportunity to adapt to environmental areas if, following local decision, they think it is a good idea. That is what you think in the City of Copenhagen, and there I would remind Mette Gjerskov and the Minister, and who it is, that the Social Democracy has also voted for it in the City of Copenhagen and voted together with the massive majority that was for the municipal plan in the City of Copenhagen exactly around this with environmental zones. Around the zero-emission proposal: yes, of course we have included it because we think it is necessary. If we are to achieve the 70% reduction target by 2030, we believe that something drastic needs to be done in this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505162649	Mette Gjerskov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505162651	Thank you so much. We meet regularly with the parties, and we also meet regularly with Enhedslisten, fortunately, and therefore there is plenty of opportunity to talk about these things. I am also glad that the municipalities want to be involved, but I do not think we should completely ignore the fact that there are also some things going on in the field of air pollution and that we are really trying to move forward here too. We have taken the first step and we have clearly said so and we have the same objective. So I don't find there's a big contradiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505162741	Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505162743	No, it is also like what Mette Gjerskov has said now and what the Minister has said in the past. That is why I also wonder why we cannot simply endorse this or at least work towards obtaining a text in committee, a report which, like that, ensures that we take the step beyond merely confirming what we have decided once.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505162807	Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505162809	We would certainly like to find a common text on which we can agree. I say yes to the invitation and actually believe that I have already sent a proposal, because it is nice that somehow we find a way to land this kind of proposal where we actually agree with the intention, but then we can also find a common text that we can keep each other on, just as we are holding each other up on what we said last April.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505162848	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505162901	Thank you. First of all, sir, I should like to say hello. Jacob Jensen, who lies at home under the covers with real flu. [Sound emission]... when we look at environmental zones for buses and trucks in the larger cities, because we also in the Left have a clear ambition to reduce particulate emissions for the sake of Danes' health and air quality. It is also important to us, as it is to all other parties, I think. Having said that, it is also important for us in the Left that the legislation that we have to make in this area is proportional to the fact that we have to have sufficient environmental effects of it. And then it should not cause too much discomfort to the Danes, i.e. to understand what has already been a little in the debate, namely that we should try to get things into the right context, so that we also have as much environment as possible for the money. If we start with the first, namely that the legislation must have adequate environmental effects, I would say that a number of studies and analyses were carried out in connection with the fact that we had the VLAK Government's draft law on environmental zones, and here it was also clear that the environmental zones have the greatest impact in the large cities, which is why we chose the law then to apply to the country's largest municipalities. This means that the environmental impact will be less when we get out there, where there is longer between houses, compared with in the big cities, especially in relation to the cost of it. I also understand from the Minister that this is one of the things that needs to be looked at a little more closely. That then leads me to the second point, namely that our legislation should not just be a great burden to the population. This proposal, as I have also mentioned, costs the citizens a great deal of money and can be very unevenly distributed. We in the Left would like to contribute to the allocation of public crowns to improve our environment, climate and health, and we have also done so in various negotiations, both as now in opposition, but also in the past, when we had government responsibility. We usually say that we must have as much environment as possible for the money, and that is also the starting point that we have here and now. In addition, it is also important and true that many Danes live outside the larger cities, where there is a little longer between the houses, and that is why you have to think a little about how it is related. If I am free from the paper here, I would like to say that there is something I would like to ask the Enhedslisten rapporteur about when Enhedslisten's rapporteur has the opportunity to explain it. It is suggested here that it is like the municipalities themselves that should have the freedom to introduce the environmental zones, and I would ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to try to explain whether it is because each municipality should be allowed to set its own standard, so that 98 different realities can be found out there. So this could be quite a situation for individual citizens who are about to drive cars and so on, because what are they supposed to do? Or is it because you have to coordinate it with the 98 municipalities through KL, but yet come here to the Folketing? Then I think it must be better that it is from here, that we set the same standard that then applies to everyone across the country, so you don't have to stand and wonder if it's a standard in Skagen, in Tønder or in Midtfyn. Well, what is it you have to relate to? When we were in government, we helped to get it started up in the five largest cities, as I remember, for buses, and as far as I remember, also for trucks in the larger cities, which then have the same standards and rules. That must be the way forward. Then it is true that there will then have to be more analyses of what the measures may be, in connection with an idea catalogue of what it costs, and then it has to be the case that it has to be given priority from there as you can get some money set aside for it and obtain a majority for it. We all want clean air. On that basis, however, we in the Left cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, as it is right here and now at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505163328	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It has given rise to a brief remark from Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505163333	There is no contradiction between that and setting common standards. It will be something about making some demands on the vehicles that it is about. We are already doing so in the environmental zones that are today, for heavy vehicles, are we not? And in the contribution of the report we took part in there from April last year, we specifically mentioned that passenger cars, for example. should comply with the Euro V standard, etc. So there is no contradiction in establishing common standards, common requirements for the environmental zones that are being set up. After all, this is about letting the municipalities decide whether they want it at all, whether they think there is a problem locally. This has been found in Copenhagen, too, on behalf of other municipalities, they write in their municipal plan, but it doesn't matter and you will probably think so in a number of other major cities. There are cities where you don't feel it's a problem, and then they probably won't fit in with an environmental zone. I think that must also be in line with the Left's normal attitude to municipal self-government, in other words to let the municipalities decide for themselves. However, as I have said, this is not contrary to having common requirements and standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505163434	Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505163436	In the Left we certainly like local self-government and that the municipalities themselves can have the greatest possible influence. But sometimes we have to balance it a little. As I understand it now, Enhedslisten says that some similar standards must be set at national level which applies to the whole country and then, in addition to what they are unfortunately forced to do now, the municipalities must decide whether they want it or not. So what I'm thinking is that you should try to think about it in the ministry when you have to look at this: what are the health effects of it and how do you get as much environment as possible for the money? How does it really come into this? Because there are different, we can say, challenges around, and as I have at least read myself to it, it is precisely in the big cities that are the biggest challenges, and then we have to say that we have started right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505163527	Thank you. Sir. Holiday home, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505163530	Well, what the rapporteur says is that if there were no common national standards, 98 different standards would be obtained. And it wouldn't be possible to deal with a driver who moves around the country, that when he drives in Copenhagen, there is one requirement for his car, but when he comes to another city, he may not be allowed to drive in there if they make tougher demands. It is clear that this is quite impossible, and it is not in the proposal at all, I would say to Mr McMillan-Scott. Erling Bonnesen. Of course, there must be common requirements and standards. But it has to be up to the municipalities whether they think they have a local problem, and then it is also up to the local citizens of the municipality to push their town council to say: Well we don't want to live in this mess, so you have to introduce an environmental zone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505163610	Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505163613	I am glad to see that clarification so that we do not have to have any more debate about the fact that these are 98 different realities, because we fully agree with that. Now it is rare for the Enhedslisten and the Left to agree on quite a lot, but at least here we agree on it. So it's a good thing we cleared this up. My question, then, is: if the municipalities are to decide for themselves, who should be included in it? Right now it's these five biggest cities, but what if it looks completely different with Enhedslisten's proposal? Let us say that some of the municipalities then say: we would like that, because we have a long way to go between the houses, we are a large rural community; there is not a big problem. But elsewhere there may be a health problem. What will Enhedslisten do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505163653	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur to whom I would like to welcome is Mr Seligman. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505163710	Thank you for that, President. When you look at the proposal here, you think it is a positive proposal, because it is a matter of getting some cleaner air in our cities. But when you read down through it, at least there are quite a few challenges to it. The first is that, where it has been introduced in various major cities in Europe, it is in some places Euro 4, in some places Euro 6, and in some places it is on some particular lines ■ this is given some examples in the comments. We must remember that Denmark is still away, although we have lowered registration fees several times under the previous government and together with the Danish People's Party, have some of the world's most expensive cars. In fact, until September 2014, we had Euro 5 cars. And let us now say that a municipality chooses to say that only Euro 6 cars are allowed to drive in their municipality, so it is cars that are only six years old that will no longer be able to drive in that municipality. It will be a very, very major intervention in relation to the big investment, it is, to buy a car in Denmark. Another thing, and it is also interesting, is that when you talk about zero-emission zones, you really talk about electric cars. Only electric cars can drive there, but we actually have hybrid cars. It is a discussion we have had in Denmark several times, but we have never really recognised that it should be special in relation to registration fees. It's actually cars that can drive at 50 km/h. and have zero emissions, and then can drive out on the road and well enough run on fossil fuel, but with a very, very long range. It could also be a way. So it is not because there are no options in such a proposal here. A third place where we also see that there is a challenge is in relation to the municipal. There we are very much in line with what the Left said, namely that this will present some challenges. A municipality with more than 20,000 inhabitants should in fact have only 19 municipal councillors. This means that there will be 10 citizens in a municipality, 10 municipal councillors, who will be able to decide and impose such a requirement here on all the vehicles moving around the municipality concerned, that they will no longer be able to drive, for example, in the city centre. There we absolutely believe that if decisions of this kind are taken very violently, it is certainly something that the Folketing must overcome. All in all, to be brief, it is not a proposal that we can support, but we recognise that we have challenges in relation to the pollution caused by cars. And there is no doubt that when you look at diesel cars and you look at particulate pollution, we have a great challenge there, which is why it is very good that we have standards for heavy traffic over 3,500 kg, i.e. commercial traffic, buses and lorries. That's really good. But when we get down on passenger cars, we have a challenge, because it is a product that is so expensive to buy in Denmark. There are not many ordinary Danes who scrape a car that is 6 years old, as this would in its ultimate consequence cause some Danes to do, if they live in a city or on a street where you insert a Euro 6 requirement or even worse create a zero emission zone, because then you have to buy an electric car. But I think that, although we are not voting for this proposal here, it is not a debate that goes away. Although this proposal does not come through as it stands here, it is not a debate that goes away, because air pollution is one of the things we have to work on and, as I also asked the Minister, it must of course also be seen in the context of climate and the environment. Climate change, the environment and air pollution must be dealt with together, so that the demands we put down on the population also give the desired effect on several parameters. So thank you for the proposal, but it is not a proposal that the Danish People's Party can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505164050	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505164052	It is of course a pity that the Danish People's Party will not support the proposal. I do, sir. René Christensen notes that Dansk Folkeparti was actually part of the fairly massive majority in the City of Copenhagen, which proposed to extend the municipal plan from December 2019 with both the proposal on environmental zones, but also the proposal to create zero emission zones. So it's a little too bad you don't back up your local town council. Then I did not quite understand the comment about the democratic challenge in that a relatively small number of urban roots 10 out of a city council of 19 could decide to create such an environmental zone. Yeah, okay, that's local democracy. That is the way it is if democracy is left to the municipalities; that is how it is done. It is also in this case 10 city councillors who can decide that you want to fit in with public transport, with bus routes and what kind of lines and up here and come down here. Well, that's how it works, I'd say to Mr. Simpson. René Christensen. So I cannot quite understand that this is a challenge, as Mr. René Christensen called it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505164203	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505164205	Now you have to be careful that it doesn't run out of some key. We are certainly advocates of local self-government. It's only because when you talk about this in relation to many Danish families, the most expensive thing they buy is their house. The second expensive thing they buy is their car. And this will be a very, very major interference in the freedom of owning a vehicle and being able to move freely around society. And that is where we think that responsibility should lie on some more. And it has to be said that an agreement has been made that you have this opportunity in Copenhagen. And, of course, there are the greatest challenges. We all know the measurements made on Hans Christian Andersen's Boulevard. I mean, you've had to do something about that. But that's why we think it's the Folketing that has to make these decisions, too, forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505164252	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505164254	At Hans Christian Andersen's Boulevard it was first done that the measuring device was moved back from the road. Then the problem goes away, maybe, right? I do not imagine that, and I do not think that any of the parties responsible for the contribution of the report at the time did so overnight. In any case, it will be with some sort of transitional period in which people can adapt, even in relation to the purchase of cars and such things. But it is clearly an attempt to push for a development as part of achieving the 70-percent reduction by 2030, which we are more or less all in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505164337	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505164342	I think it's just some other tools that need to be used. I think you have to look a lot more at the fact that it has to be more attractive to have an electric car. What is it, for example? For some electricity taxes we have when you use it to charge your electric car? How easy it is to load up your electric car when you're out driving etc. etc.? I think that both the population and the technology are working in this direction, and although we mean something inside Christiansborg, I think we will see that the car park is going to change significantly in the future. And there I think that instead of imposing restrictions on what penalises citizens, it would be better to put some carrots out. And there are charges on letting up your electric car, for example, a tool for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505164420	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505164429	We have quite well managed air pollution in Denmark. And yet no better control of it than that every year approx. 4,200 Danes prematurely due to air pollution. That is far too many, and above all it is too many when we know that we can practically prevent part of these deaths from one day to the next. The corona crisis has, among other things. Showed us. And we don't even have to close the whole community or keep car-free Sundays. Today we have the technological opportunities to intervene without, by the way, putting society at a standstill or reducing mobility. We have electric cars and particulate filters, we have good public traffic in the largest cities, we even now have a digital system that can control environmental zones. We also have local city council politicians all around who say: Come on, give us the opportunity to take the lead and set a high standard. In fact, it's really important to think about this setting a high standard and going ahead. For some of the things that make this a little difficult are that part of the pollution comes from outside, that is, from other countries. This is the case with pollution, and above all air pollution: it is something that moves across borders. We will get something from other countries, we will then pass something on to other countries, and that is why it is extra important to take the lead. I know that there are probably some people who could use it as an argument for not doing anything, because much of the pollution really comes from somewhere else. But we are also sending things the other way, and by taking the lead in showing that we can therefore set a high standard of air pollution without putting society to a standstill, without losing mobility, wealth, prosperity, welfare etc. And so, yes, we are also helping to pave the way for other countries, and in this way we can also bring about a reduction in the air pollution that comes from outside. That is why it is our view that something must be done and that something must be done now. That is why we support the Enhedslisten's proposal, which in many ways escapes the joint contribution of the report that we made together, in other words the Social Democracy, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative, a year ago. In the report's contribution, we give the Danes the promise that, if we won the majority, we would extend the environmental zones to passenger cars as soon as possible, and we would also allow all municipalities to introduce environmental zones into larger urban areas. Both are part of this resolution, which also contains the possibility of creating definite zero emission zones. It is also something that we support, and again from the point of view of thinking, that where we can take the lead, we are actually producing results in the long run, and perhaps in other countries too, what we can benefit from in the long term. If someone is sitting there wondering why we haven't talked about heavy traffic, and they may not, if they have followed this whole debate, then it's because it's on its way. We have a bill for consideration right now, which has been first-read and which is about heavy vehicles and which is also helping to implement this digital enforcement system. And that is why we are impatient and think that something must happen now. We have an ongoing discussion with the Minister for the Environment. I think I can reveal that without breaking any confidentiality. And the way we read the government, it's a matter of finding the funds together, and when we do it I'm not saying if we do it, but when we do it I actually think we're quite agreed on the standard that needs to be set. There may still be something in relation to zero emission zones, etc. where we have not quite talked ourselves towards each other yet or found the right level or compromise. But otherwise I hear the government saying that the Social Democrats stand by the contribution we made together before the elections. That's the level we're working on. Now we're gonna find the money. And we would very much like to make a joint contribution to this report, so that we have black and white, in other words that what was meant before the elections is also meant after the elections, now that you are actually in government. We have heard that, and it would be really nice if we got it into a joint contribution to the report, and could even write something that either indicates a time-frame. I sense it's hard to push the government into it, but at least something more binding that now we have to sit together and find that money. Because if I understand the government, that's actually the obstacle now. It is not because one dares not go out and bother the car owners I was going to say, but I really think it is too negative to talk about it that way. But it is not because you do not have the courage to go in and regulate passenger transport. That is because the funds have not yet been found. And if that's the only thing that separates us now I'm looking this way, and I hope, of course, that those at this end of the hall will be with us, then I just think that as soon as possible we should find the money and get something done about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505164940	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505164947	Well, of course, thank you for your support for the Radical Left very well! The only thing I want to say to that is whether we should reaffirm what we have once decided or whether we should try to get something on funding and whether we should try to get something on a time horizon. Clearly, we clearly prefer the latter. We are not there, and personally I am not at all able to confirm in infinity what has once been decided upon. Because once you have decided on something, the next step must be to say: then we do this and then we move forward. How many steps you move forward at a time okay, it's of course up for discussion. But just to reaffirm what we once decided, I do not think my temper is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165033	Zenia Stampe, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165035	Well, we also support the proposal, but the longer we can move the government forward, the better. That is what our joint efforts are all about. A few days ago, in the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Radical Left, we had a joint speech on air pollution and the environmental zones in particular, and we also had a good subsequent discussion with the government. So, without revealing too much, I think that we are in the process of a good process, and I also think that we are pushing as we should as a support party. However, I also think that I am receiving some signals from the government that this is not something that we are trying to prevent from happening, but we have not found the money yet, and the more we can get the government to commit itself to a joint contribution from the report to finding the money so that it can happen as quickly as possible, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165124	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mette Gjerskov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165129	Yes, thank you. And thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur for the announcement of being able to find common ground in some way in this matter. I am sure we can. I would like to say that I have no problem confirming that we mean what we did before the elections. And I could read in the paper the other day that you were impatient. I understand that, but I don't want you to be in any doubt that we stand by what we have said. So I have an understanding of your impatience, but I would also be absolutely clear and say: that is the way we should go. However, it is very necessary to set too fixed timetables right now for anything, when the children at school do not even know whether they are going to school or not going to school in a month (Den fg. President-in-Office of the Council.). It's hard to make plans like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165234	Mrs. Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165236	I would also like to say that in many cases, but now we know that we are the environmental rapporteurs, that just as far as the environment is concerned, there is little more to do with the corona crisis than hand alcohol. That is the particular point we have on the agenda when we discuss corona in the Ministry of the Environment. And that is why I would like to say that, in the environmental field, I think we can start with some of those real negotiations, which are about where the money should come from or in relation to if the government thinks it should be in a financial bill debate, so at least we should think about where it is that we imagine these levels should lie. So, what are these Euronorms? Hopefully it is just a question of confirming each other that we agree on the level that we described in the report's contribution, but there may well be some technicalities that we still need to get closer. So it is really an impatience to get started with those things. And what we have then said, and which I can also say here without breaking any confidentiality, I think, is that we can understand it if the money is to be found in a budget debate, but we do not think it is appropriate if that is what happens at five minutes to twelve. Can we not now, with the professional insight that we have as environmental rapporteurs, start to discuss some of these things or talk about them? And then it may be that we will have to find the money in a few months' time in the context of a financial bill debate, but could we at least have a discussion about the substance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165356	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165358	Thank you. I think we should stick to the fact that it is true that it is not in the Ministry of the Environment alone that we are fighting corona. However, what we are talking about is a government which, together, stands and must bring us through a crisis, just as we in the Folketing must. Come on, party! Well, yeah, we can find common ground. I'm pretty sure we can... but I don't think we can come with fixed times right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165435	Thank you for that, Mrs. Mette Gjerskov, time is fast. Here you go, Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165439	Haven't I answered twice already? Well, maybe I haven't. Well, sorry, now I was in such a fashion, thinking: Now I'm just listening to her, and I'm taking note of it. Mrs. Mette Gjerskov, I don't know what to answer your question. But I would like to say to the support parties of the government, and indeed to the blues, that we are just impatient for something to happen. And I also sense that something is happening, but it is clear that the moment we get a feeling that now we are being slow or dragged ashore, we will be there again with letters of reading and motions for resolutions and consultations, and I do not know what. So all you have to do is feel our breath on the back of your neck, but then know that we mean well and trust that right now we're gonna solve it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165526	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more questions for the radical rapporteur. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165537	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for having tabled this motion for a resolution. I do not think anyone is in any doubt any longer that it is a proposal that is about giving local authority powers to introduce stricter environmental zones and zero-emission zones. After all, we debated air pollution two weeks ago, and it is no surprise that the SF feels that too little is happening in this area either. Air pollution contributes to 4,200 premature deaths a year in Denmark. It's very, very serious. I think that has also been emphasised in the debate here. In several places, therefore, people want to protect their citizens better from air pollution, among other things. in Copenhagen, where I myself have been elected. I find it extremely frustrating to see that when you actually have a desire to protect citizens from air pollution and you want to make more stringent legislation locally, then you cannot for the Folketing. It is a disgrace in my optics, and we should change that immediately. I think we have had a really good debate here, and everyone who has spoken so far, and it will probably continue to do so, underlines the magnitude of the problem of air pollution. But I also think that some remarks sometimes fall on my chest a little bit. It is, for example, when Mr. Erling Bonnesen freely quoted says: All parties want as clean air as possible. I think that is a good thing to tighten it up a little, and I think it is a little bit to belittle the differences that we have in here too. Because if all parties wanted as clean air as possible, we would all be in favour of completely car-free cities. The parties differ, and we do, of course, because we have different balances on how we want to organise our society. So there are some of us who are a little more impatient and a little more enthusiastic about car-free cities and less air pollution than others. And I am incredibly pleased that we now have a much more green majority in the Folketing than we have had in the past, which has actually started some initiatives, as has also been pointed out. I think that is extremely important. I also hope that we can continue along this path. I think there are clear indications of this. And I also hope that we can get a time horizon into that report, and I would like one in which it says that we intend to live up to the report we have submitted together in the next session. I think the Danes have waited long enough for cleaner air, and we are very impatient. The proposal here is very good and the Socialist People's Party will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165811	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then I understand that Mr. Henning Hyllested would like to share his time, so I would like to welcome him as rapporteur now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505165900	Thank you. As most people have probably realized in the debate now, the starting point or our inspiration for making this proposal was actually the adoption that took place in the City of Copenhagen when it adopted its municipal plan, which was called something as fine as "World City with responsibility," which is from December 2019. Here it is written directly, and it is actually an amendment voted in by a massive majority of Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, SF, Radical, Alternative, Conservative and Danish People's Party. It is written that it is desirable to introduce a more stringent environmental zone for passenger cars in the City of Copenhagen and other municipalities, even if so, to reduce the health impact of traffic's harmful emissions. That is what the municipal plan says. Later, another amendment is adopted with almost the same massive majority of Social Democrats, Enhedslisten, SF, Radicals, Alternative and Danish People's Party, which states: Homemel to establish a zero emission zone for vehicles in part of the City of Copenhagen to support the use of electric cars. So that is what has been our starting point. That is what has been the inspiration. The background is serious enough, and not least the Minister has explained how big a problem air pollution is with thousands of premature deaths every year, only 550 in Copenhagen, according to the calculations I have seen, where pollution originates primarily from transport and from wood-burning furnaces and, above all, the ultra-fine particles, which are the most harmful particles to health, come from combustion and exhaust from diesel engines. So there is every reason to do something about it, and nobody has spoken out against it. At the same time, however, the proposal must enable the municipalities to decide for themselves, and this is also what we think has been important, whether action should be taken against air pollution, which comes from transport, and which in this way will support local self-government. The pollution from transport is, of course, local in nature, there is also air pollution that comes from outside, certainly, but much of the air pollution comes from local car transport. One might also ask why the Folketing should actually decide here. Many say that the Folketing should not decide everything either, but why should it be decided here? It must surely be up to the local forces, to the municipalities, to the local town councils, to the citizens' representation, and what it is all called, to decide the degree, if I may say so, of air pollution, with which the citizens of that city or of that municipality must live. The City of Copenhagen has then chosen to take the lead here clearly, and I think that should be supported in that. The minister also refers to the note prepared by Aarhus University to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, where during the corona crisis an estimated 35 per cent drop in air pollution has occurred. This is estimated to mean 80 fewer deaths a year and 61,700 fewer sick days. It's worth coming. Then it is also true, and it has already emerged that the motion for a resolution follows on from the contribution made by the Social Democrats, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, Radicals and the SF to legislative proposals of April last year on stricter environmental zone requirements for heavy vehicles and vans. There we write directly that if the parties concerned receive a majority after the elections, then all municipalities must have the opportunity to introduce environmental zones into urban areas of a certain size, and therefore not only do I add it to the five largest municipalities. As far as I can see, the majority is here, and that is why I would also like to express my impatience not only to reaffirm what we have once decided, but to move forward in this process. That is, of course, what we have promised the electorate when we adopted our report's contribution, and I would urge all other parties to support the resolution here. I would also like to say that this proposal is the one that has remained. We have withdrawn a number of motions for resolutions which we have been asked for, for the sake of the Corona crisis, and because the Folketing has been pressured on time and so on, but we actually tabled a number of motions for resolutions on the possibility of municipal powers to govern, for example. the availability of parking spaces for electric cars, speed restrictions in municipalities, etc. and so on, but this is what has remained as the symbolic proposal and which is also what we believe has the greatest chance of living.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505170406	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505170415	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution which provides the opportunity to discuss environmental zones and air quality in our major cities. Unfortunately, our environmental rapporteur, Mette Abildgaard, could not be here today, so I have promised to convey our Conservative position, but she will of course take the possible further consideration of the committee. We Conservatives have continuously helped to tighten up the environmental zones in our major Danish cities, so that we constantly make stricter demands on both passenger transport and heavier transport, as technology has made it possible. We must, of course, continue to do so, because air pollution causes too many deaths every year. In fact, we are also willing to go further and allow municipalities to apply for derogations in order to make stricter environmental zone requirements for passenger cars in individual municipalities. It is actually also part of the element that we are discussing here today. Our Conservative citizens' representation group in the City of Copenhagen has also expressed a desire to have exactly that opportunity. We are open to this, of course under certain conditions in relation to phase-in time and the possibility of derogation for very special vehicles. And then it shouldn't give a big patchwork of different rules. It must of course be clear to the public. However, the second element of the proposal from the Enhedslisten is that municipalities should have the opportunity to introduce total zero emission zones, and we are not prepared to do so because we want to see the differentiated environmental zones in operation first. That is why, unfortunately, we must reject the proposal from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505170554	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505170558	Actually, it's just to do Mr. Knox's job. Marcus Knuth notes that the Conservative People's Party is, after all, part of the majority of the organisation of environmental zones in the City of Copenhagen, i.e. in the amendment we have adopted to the Copenhagen Municipal Council's plan. It is true that the Conservatives do not participate in the majority that has tabled an amendment on zero emission zones, but in the other. And I do not want to develop such a major controversy when the environmental rapporteur is not here, but just point out that there is therefore a wonder that in the City of Copenhagen you vote for something really similar, apart from the fact that it is acknowledged with zero emission zones, but that it does not seem to be doing so in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505170648	Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505170649	Thank you. That is true, and I would just like to confirm what I said myself, so that is precisely the part about zero-emission zones that we are going to do a little bit in this proposal. But otherwise we think that the first part and the intention are really fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505170706	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to give the floor to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr Liberal Alliance. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505170733	Thank you. Air pollution is a major problem. Many rapporteurs have already said so. It weakens the health of many people, and unfortunately it also kills many people. If society has tolerated air pollution to a certain extent, it was not, after all, because there was something good to say about it; it was only because the advantages of motorized transport were so great that some of the disadvantages could be accepted. Now, however, there are real alternatives to petrol and diesel vehicles and, of course, the view of air pollution must also change. It is not to the extent that an evil must be tolerated in the past. That is why transport work in the future should also be dealt with to a much greater extent by vehicles which do not pollute the air or which pollute it much less than they do today. The technological breakthroughs that have taken place also open up the possibility of looking at zero-emission zones. I believe, however, that they should only be introduced once a thorough analysis of the need for transport has been carried out in the zones where they are considered to be introduced. If we then cannot support the proposal, it is because of scepticism about the municipal model. We are, after all, a party which is in favour of municipal self-government. However, traffic and transport are connected in some natural units which are larger than municipalities, and there can therefore be some unfortunate situations in which local authority a organises its zones completely without taking into account municipality b, where the overall problems of a transport region that is connected can then become much more complex than well if municipal egoism is allowed to prevail. So what is in the proposal here is good ideas that we would like to continue working on, but there is also something called overall traffic planning, and there should therefore not be a local model as proposed here. So there are some good intentions, but we do not support the overall proposal. And then I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, who has become ill, and say that new citizens do not support the proposal either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171008	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Sir. Henrik Dahl is pretty tall, so you have to talk into the microphone, because otherwise it's very hard to hear for people who have to listen out there. Sir. Henning Hyllested has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171024	I'd like to say to Mr. Henrik Dahl, that maybe I think it's a little bit like finding a hair in the soup. It is true that, to some extent, traffic planning cannot simply be a local authority. However, I do not imagine that a municipality will introduce environmental zones into the part of their municipality which is made up of rural areas. It will typically be in the larger urban areas of the individual municipalities that you will probably do so. I find it difficult to see this from an overall point of view that traffic planning is more than just municipal. Yes, it is. There is a lot of planning there is. There is also environmental planning, and I shall give you, I shall. There are many forms of planning. It is spreading, but traffic, as I said, is largely local and I think that there must be a good opportunity for municipalities there to regulate what their citizens must endure from air pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171133	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171135	Well, I don't have to rip up payment rings and stuff like that, but in the big cities commuting is a reality, and if you don't have a level of planning that goes beyond the municipalities, then Municipality A can end up wiping out problems at Municipality B, so Municipality B suddenly has to put up with a lot of traffic or solve some parking problems that really belong elsewhere. That is why I think that, in the area of transport in particular, a slightly larger and more general planning is appropriate because of the question of commuting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171212	Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171214	Exactly commuting poses a huge problem for a whole range of cities around, not least our capital here. But there are also a number of large and medium-sized cities around. In fact, I think it is quite reasonable if a municipality can say that now we are creating an environmental zone here, so if you, dear commuter, want to drive into our municipality and work here, then you have to get yourself a car that meets the standards that have been decided at national level. It must be the mechanism of it, and I do not see that there is anything unreasonable in it, or that in this way it is wiped off in another municipality. You wipe it off, if I may say so, I think it is a dull expression by making demands on commuters who take advantage of the opportunity to work in the city in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171300	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171302	There is a story going on about some Aarhusian hijackers who lock themselves in the plane, and then they throw out a note saying: We are hostages, we demand weapons and ransom. If a municipality made it impossible to enter the municipality, it would create a similar problem for itself, for the tax will be laid where the commuters live. So if you make it impossible to drive into the municipality, you're kind of just gonna ruin it for yourself. So I don't think you're gonna do that. So, seriously, these traffic problems must of course be solved at a higher level, but we agree that they need to be resolved, so we would of course like to see a proposal another time, taking into account the little overall traffic problems which may also exist in larger cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171344	Thank you to LA's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171351	Thank you very much. Why not let municipalities set up environmental zones and zero emission zones if they want to do so now when they want to? Over 4,000 Danes die of air pollution. After all, we ourselves wrote in a contribution to the report a year ago that we would have to introduce environmental zones as soon as possible if there were a red-green majority. A year is a short time in politics, but it is too long to be as soon as possible. I guess this ends with a joint report confirming that the government believes the same after an election as before an election. That's not necessary for me. I don't think this is a government of promise. In fact, I think it is a government that keeps its promises. So it is not necessary to have it confirmed. But perhaps the government could have spent that year trying to figure out what this cost so we wouldn't have to stand in this Chamber and have this debate without any important figures. I would like to add a huge amount of impatience to the pile of impatience that has already emerged from several parties, so that the impatience to get it in place gradually must almost assume biblical dimensions. I hope that this debate will mean that the environmental zones will be introduced more quickly than was planned, because it seems to have stalled somewhat. So thank you for raising this debate. At least it can't slow it down. I hope that makes it go faster. The alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171544	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171554	Thank you. We want to respect municipal autonomy. According to Aarhus University, 137 people died just because of air pollution from cars in 2017. When we think about how we react to the corona crisis and the deaths it causes, this also calls for action. We know that, although air pollution is falling year by year, it is still gone, and so many people are dying. We also know that when you walk around with a stroller or pram in the city, it is really unhealthy for the child, because it is exactly the same as the cars' exhaust pipes. It is clearly worst in the big cities, but also in Aalborg, on Vesterbro, when you go there during rush hour, you can feel how ugly the air is. And I have to think about what it's like for the people who have the opportunity to go to such a street. When they open the window to get fresh air, they actually get an air in, which is more unhealthy than the one they let out. Air pollution caused 460 premature deaths in Copenhagen last year. But it is a lot of deaths, and it also causes 440,000 sick days. So it's expensive too. I hope that with this B proposal we can give municipalities the right to create zero-emission zones, which will mean that you can have areas where there are very few cars and that instead you can get nature into the city. We can get trees that can grow up and transform some CO2. We can have areas where there is less noise and we know that noise is also pathogenic. We can have areas where there is well-being. I see nature corridors where very good conditions are being created for cyclists with safe bike paths, so that we can also promote health in this way. I think we should give the municipalities the right to take these decisions so that they, on an equal footing with large cities in other European countries, can create emission-free zones or environmental zones. We have the opportunity here to adopt a resolution that can benefit climate, nature, well-being, welfare and strengthen local democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171845	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. There are no brief comments. And then I would like to give the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, the word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505171855	Thank you. And I have to say that there is such broad support for the very intention of the proposal. In fact, I do not think anyone has spoken against intention, nor, of course, against that problem. Everyone accepts that the problem of air pollution is clearly unacceptable. But it is also clear that there has been a great deal of impatience, not least from the support parties to the government, which helped to make this contribution to the report, which is also based on the impatience of which Mr. Torsten Gejl said so, biblical dimensions gradually. And I do not entirely disagree with that, that is, that something must happen now. There is no point in us adopting something and telling the voters that, when we get the majority, we will do this and that, when we get the majority, we will not do what we promised. That is why I think it would be natural for us to be able to do something about it in a report contribution, where the government like to promise that a legislative proposal will be put forward for the legislative programme in 2021. Then you have a whole year, well and well, to prepare for this, and that is why you can then look at the funding. Or, in connection with funding, as Mrs Zenia Stampe mentioned, perhaps we could already look at the substance of it and also find out what it costs and then have the joint effort to try and put it on the agenda for the financial law negotiations. Then the Minister has not promised that she will get through with it, and the rest of us have not promised that we will get through with it, but after all we agree to do so, and then we have such a little bit of a hook in each other, and I think that is really sensible when we have expressed a common effort. I would also like to refer to how impatient we are in this regard. Now I was not a co-signator of the speech in Politiken, but it was Mrs. Zenia Stampe and Mr. Carl Valentin, and for us it was Mrs Mai Villadsen. And there was no such thing as a finger on it, and I hope the Minister does not feel that he is stepping on it. But it was said that there was a lack of faith in it, and whether the Social Democrats had got cold feet in relation to this, since it was dragging on. And as was also asked in the reader's post: If it is not to be now, when will it be? We have the majority to do it; everyone talks green transition; and this is a contribution to municipal autonomy. So we think that this is a very good proposal in every way. I would warn against using the corona situation as a bad excuse for not doing anything. I do not think, as I said, that this is what I have said in the debate... that it is quite a lot of money in the big social accounts we are talking about here. And that is why I think we should be able to find a way of getting some money to implement this proposal, which, moreover, leaves it to the municipalities to introduce these environmental zones, and I think that, as I said, is very sensible. I would just like to say on the issue of zero emission zones that it is true that it was not included in our joint report's contribution. It was only the Alternative and Enhedslisten who called for it at the time. But I would like to point out that, for example, a city like Amsterdam has made an ambitious project and has an ambitious goal of actually achieving emission-free city by 2030. I think it could be really exciting if we gave Copenhagen the same opportunity.Of course it would start with some zones around, yes, but it would be great if Copenhagen could join a city like Amsterdam in the leading field here. We already compete to be a cycling town no. 1 etc. etc. That would be quite fantastic, and why should we be holding back on it, since the City of Copenhagen has quite specifically proposed that they want to do something here and that they want to take the lead in it? I can't believe you don't want to. But, of course, I am grateful for the support that has been given by the Radicals, the SF and the Alternative and also the partial support of the government. And, of course, I would like to thank you for the positive comments that have been made, including from other parties from the blue parties, that air pollution is unacceptable. And I would just like to point out again that a number of the blue parties • The Danish People's Party and the Conservative Party in the City of Copenhagen have actually voted in favour of the proposal on environmental zones. So on with the habit, I will say to the government, and I hope we can land it here so that something actually happens and so that we can go out to the voters and say: there is a promise that we have fulfilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505172401	Thank you, Mr President, to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Henning Hylllested. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505172443	These are about the same rapporteurs, so you know the procedure of speaking from your place and remembering to speak only when the red ring lights up. The debate is open and I would like to give the floor to the Minister for the Environment first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505172501	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Søren Egge Rasmussen for the motion for a resolution. The proposers want to allow municipalities to refuse applications for the extension of livestock production on the basis of an overall assessment. First of all, I would like to refer to the current livestock regulation. The livestock law reflects a balancing of the often contradictory considerations of the occupation and surroundings of the establishment, construction or expansion of livestock production. The regulation must protect the environment, such as: the environment and neighbours, while ensuring a predictable framework for the industry, which enables production to be developed so that it remains both economically and environmentally sustainable. The motion for a resolution points out a number of considerations which the authors of the motion do not consider to be adequate. I will therefore briefly outline the main lines of the current livestock regulation and, in this context, correct a few misunderstandings, as can be seen from the comments on the proposal. The livestock regulation takes account of neighbors by regulating a number of conditions, including ensuring that certain centrally established levels of protection for ammonia and odour are respected and that, moreover, there are no significant influences on the environment due, for example, to: noise, dust, fly genes etc. If conditions can be laid down to ensure compliance with those rules, no refusal may be granted, but if they are not complied with, authorisation may not be granted either. In concrete terms, this means that, based on the limits for odours, a genetic distance from livestock to the neighbours is calculated. The calculation includes a number of factors, in particular the nature and size of production. A large production will therefore have a greater genetic distance than a correspondingly smaller production. In addition, there is a general minimum requirement of 50 metres for neighbours, which must be respected in all cases. The genetic distance for large livestock farming will be significantly greater than the minimum distance of 50 m. Let us, for example: look at a typical production of pigs for fattening with a production area of 2,000 m2. There will be approx. 3,000 trails corresponding to a production of approximately 11-12,000 slaughter pigs per year. In order to comply with the applicable smell rules, the production must be located at a distance of 198 m to a neighbour in the land zone, 434 m to total settlement and 580 m to urban zone. Noise from livestock farming is another factor which may lead to the imposition of restrictions and may ultimately lead to refusals. In this case, the municipality may lay down conditions that transport by heavy vehicles cannot take place at specific times or that certain access and exit routes must be used for the sake of the environment. The municipality must refuse if the conditions cannot ensure that there is no significant impact on livestock farming. In the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution point out that municipalities should be able to refuse the extension of livestock farming with reference to the achievement of their own climate objectives. However, climate is not a concern for livestock regulation. The scope of municipal assessments has been limited by amendments to the Farming Act in 2011 and in 2017. By amending the Act in 2011, the possibility for municipalities to set specific local levels of protection for emissions of ammonia from livestock installations in particular was limited. The reason for this was that a very diverse practice had developed from municipality to municipality and a lot of time was devoted to establishing local levels of protection. The extent of the municipalities' assessments was also limited by the amendment of the Act in 2017, which specifically dealt with the possibility for municipalities to make concrete assessments in relation to application of manure to the land. The amendment meant that the protection levels for the land were lifted completely out of the concrete decisions and transferred to national general rules so that municipalities would not have to make concrete assessments in relation to the areas where manure is applied. The legislation thus ensures that the levels of protection are the same throughout the country and that farmers are treated equally across municipal boundaries. In addition, limiting municipal assessments has led to considerably shorter processing times. The average processing time has decreased from around 10 months in 2012 to around 4 months in 2018. The comments on the motion for a resolution state that, before the amendment of the law in 2017, municipalities could refuse applications for the expansion of livestock farming with local arguments such as: planning considerations that an extension would bother for many citizens or that no more pigs would be wanted in the municipality. However, there was also no possibility at that time of refusing to do so solely for reasons such as: local planning considerations or to avoid more pigs in the municipality as long as the protection levels were respected. To allow municipalities to be able to grant refusals solely on the basis of an overall assessment where, for example, it is possible to: may stress that no further livestock production in the municipality will be desired, will create a precarious environment for the industry and for the neighbours, and large differences could arise from the municipality to the municipality. So it is a sensible principle that livestock farming should be treated equally across municipal boundaries, and that is also how we regulate other professions. I am aware that there may be specific problems relating to large-scale livestock farming. There has recently been an increase in the number of cases where both citizens and municipalities express criticism of large livestock farming and also of their location. I am, of course, listening to the requests I receive from citizens and municipalities and I also take them seriously. Some of these approaches have been about the health risks that may be associated with living close to livestock farming. The Danish Health Authority has assessed a much discussed Dutch study on the effects of endotoxins on neighbors' health. The Danish Health Authority's conclusion is that this study cannot be taken as a basis for livestock farming causing health problems among neighbours. To move forward with clarification, on the recommendation of the Danish Health Authority, I have decided to initiate a full review of the existing scientific studies on possible health risks for neighbours to livestock farming. I think it is sensible to see the whole issue in context, so I shall initially await the outcome of the study. We hope that it will be completed after the summer holidays, but, like for many other areas, the corona crisis can also have an impact on the timetable here. When the outcome of the review is available, I will assess whether this will give rise to a closer look at the regulation of large livestock farms and, of course, also take the necessary consequences into account in the regulation if it turns out that there are health risks associated with neighbouring livestock farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173200	Thank you for that and there is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173203	Thank you. The Minister now cites such an example where it is a farm with an extension of 11-12 000 pigs for fattening. If it is 10,000 pigs for slaughter, it will be equivalent to the nitrogen emissions from an urban community of 6,000 inhabitants. And we are dealing with some industrial pig farms with over 100,000 pigs for fattening. This would be equivalent to the fact that, in a municipality, there is something that can be expanded, so that it corresponds to an urban community of 60.000 inhabitants. And the largest pig farming in Denmark produces over 230,000 pigs for fattening. If it were an urban community, it would be equivalent to 140,000 inhabitants who needed a wastewater treatment plant to handle their toilet water. And what the municipalities are being charged with is that they can only say yes if it is the case that some square rules are the same. Can the Minister not see that the calls coming from the municipalities are worth listening to when the municipalities consider themselves just a rubber stamp and have no influence?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173311	As I also tried to say in my speech, I listen, of course, when the municipalities raise a problem. And where I find that there is a particular challenge, or where there is a concern, is of course in relation to the health risk or the genes that may be living close to larger livestock productions. And I think we also acknowledge this in the government by saying, so to speak, that when we have the studies from other countries • the Dutch survey, but also other studies • that have been sent to us and that we have asked the Danish Health Authority to look at where they recommend that we actually do the thorough examination, then we say that of course we should have done it. In view of this, we must decide whether we need to change that regulation. However, the fact that there are national criteria and levels of protection is a sensible thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173401	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173403	There have been several letters from Social Democratic mayors, and there are among others. one from Holbæk's mayor, who writes: "It seems difficult in the current regulation to take further account of the environment, including the transport load and other environmental nuisances such as smell, noise and crap... Holbæk Municipality must recommend the Danish Parliament to ensure a different development of the livestock law, where we as a local authority can actually take care of the considerations as the purpose clause prescribes it and help to protect nature, the environment and landscape values in respect of human living conditions. ▪ What has the Minister replied to Holbæk's mayor?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173446	I would also very much like to send the answer, which I have sent to the Mayor of Holbæk, to the committee for information. And the answer I have given here is that there are local balances. This is also what the municipality is talking about in relation to traffic and other matters, but the general regulation in relation to traffic is in the Ministry of Transport and not in environmental legislation. The second is that precisely because you have to set local conditions, it is acting, among other things. on noise, and then we have the national protection criteria laid down here. I think it makes sense for us to agree to say what kind of genes we are going to accept. In addition, there are local conditions that must be taken into account, and we must, of course, ensure that national levels of protection are good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173536	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173540	Thank you. Now I am going to anticipate my own speech a tiny bit, because I can understand the argument of a uniform level, both in terms of efficiency and procedure, but also competition between these different livestock producers. But the jumping point is then: what is the level? Is it the lowest common denominator, or is it used to set a high standard? I would like to ask the Minister if she and the Ministry might help us make a comparison between the regulation and the standards that apply to the pig industry or livestock production which I think we can now describe as industry and the other industry. Because when there are many of us who are critical here, it is not really because of uniformity. Then it is because we see that it is being used to set a very low common level of protection, for example. In relation to smell genes. And that may be my question: is the Minister aware that in this way there is a lower or less uniform level of protection when it comes to pig genes in relation to the other industry? And is that something the Minister is prepared to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173652	I am very happy to provide an answer to what either the Radical Left or the committee are asking about in relation to the various levels of protection that exist. I also think it is important, when we get many inquiries about the level of protection with a concern about whether there may be a health risk, that we also uncover it, of course. That's also why it's so important that we get this thorough investigation, in terms of what knowledge we actually have, so that we are sure that we have the right level of protection. That is also why I am open to the fact that when we get that result, hopefully just after the summer break, we can look at whether there is a risk and whether we need to change regulation. In addition, however, I am not aware of the fact that there should be a particularly low level of protection. But I am very happy to answer written questions and to what else might be on the part of the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173748	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173750	In any case, I think we should ask a few questions about smell genes, because as I understand it, the level of protection is different here from that of the other industrial zone. But there is also a question of location. Now I do not remember the law of plans and local plans. I cannot at all do that to the fingertips, because it is not my area of responsibility, but if you are so concerned that you have to be able to make pig factories on the basis of general standards everywhere, I do not think it is a principle that you want to apply to the other industry, so come and tell the municipalities that it is the state that decides where there is to be an industrial zone, because there are some general rules, and if you can comply with them, the municipality has no influence on the location of industry. Without being an expert in this area, I do not think that is the case, and I do not think the government will be prepared to implement that principle either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173838	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173841	I also think that what is important is that there is a proper attitude towards the profession which has to operate under certain rules, so that you know which framework you have to work in if you are to buy a farm, for example. Then we need to know what regulation there is, and this should necessarily be something that cannot be changed from municipal elections to municipal elections. And the same goes for the neighbours, so if you buy a property close to a farm, you also have to know what rules apply today. That is why we have said that some national levels of protection can make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173917	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. So now we are starting with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is Mrs Mette Gjerskov from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505173926	First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten, to which I have my back, and it is a little strange to take up the discussion, because it is always good to have the opportunity to turn why it was actually that we did what we did and whether what is on the table is the smartest thing. I have tried to remember a little bit back what kind of situation we were in and why we ended up with the legislation we have now. We were in a situation where the municipalities themselves had to demand ammonia, so here we are also talking about that it is quite high technology, it is BAT, it is emission standards, it is technologies. This meant that when an approval had to be made, it took a very long time for the municipalities, and it was very, very difficult for them. That is to say, we are faced with processing times of sometimes 1 year and sometimes 2 years. No one should be in any doubt that I have always been happy to look after nature and have also dared to take battles with agriculture, but a profession must therefore have some guidelines to work on, which make it a tiny bit predictable. One cannot stand and wait for two years for a permit to carry out the work which the company is concerned with. I just did not think that was fair. What we saw, too, was that there were municipalities.Those we are talking about today are the ones who wanted to be more restrictive, but there were also municipalities who wanted something else: who wanted to relax and who made the lowest common denominator. In other words, after a few years, we will end up agreeing that we are now doing so, that we are bringing together legislation on ammonia, manure emissions, smells and things at Christiansborg. It has to be the same in Denmark. When it comes to the municipalities, it is not true that they have no options. The municipalities are, of course, responsible for all the concrete work, but they also have the opportunity to impose restrictions on noise, dust and for example. fly genes. You can demand that you can only drive out with wagons at a certain time of the day, that you need certain routes, and what do I know? It is therefore possible for municipalities to make demands. However, environmental rules, which are about the emission of ammonia, which is about the discharge of manure, and which are about the fact that if you now comply with the rules, you also have the right to obtain a permit, I think that is a very good principle to stick to. If we then think that there should be stricter rules, then that is what we need to discuss now. But the fact that we have not secured a profession, that at least they have a fairly good sense of what lies ahead and what it takes, I do not like. Compare it with the fact that you have to build a garage and you don't know what kind of requirements it has to meet. Farmers also need to know what these requirements are, just as any other company needs to know what they have to meet in order to get this authorisation. I think that is a good principle and I think that we should stick to it. If we talk about the fact that there are problems in relation to the fact that there may be some emissions in some way, endotoxins that people may get sick of, which may originate from pig production, then the Minister has promised that it will be thoroughly investigated and consequences will be taken if it turns out that there is something in it. That's how I think it should be. I think that's the way it should be with the environmental part of it. If there is something, we must get to the bottom of it, but to come back to the time when it all depended on where you lived in the country and that you could make all sorts of different kinds of rules, I don't like it. I do not think that is fair to a profession, but I do not actually think that suits us either. We must take responsibility and say that we want environmental requirements, and we are asking them. So we in the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal, I should like to add it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505174444	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505174449	That, among other things. has been the announcement from Holbæk, is the following: • We are both a rural municipality and an attractive immigrant municipality with less than an hour to Copenhagen. At the same time, we are a municipality with great ambitions for the climate. However, when we get an application for an extension of livestock farming, all too often we do not really have the opportunity to assess the actual expansion in terms of settlement and climate impact. This is a huge problem and we want to change it. That's the actual message. I think that municipal autonomy is very good, and that should mean that you could have municipalities that were municipalities of pigs and that were very sympathetic to this type of application, and that there could then be other municipalities that might have weighted nature, tourism, some smaller towns, new settlements, etc. higher than the extension of pig farming. But with the rules now in place, the municipalities cannot really say no if those who make the applications and they are of course skilled do so within the framework that is. Does the rapporteur not see that we have a huge problem with all the municipalities in the country being pig municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505174554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505174555	I would like to say that I am very much in favour of decisions being taken as close as possible to the citizens, which is why I have defended on many, many different occasions the right of municipalities to make decisions because they are closest to the citizens. But it is not going to be any better for the proposer to say that the municipalities cannot assess climate impact and settlement. If they can't assess it, if that's the problem, then it's not a very good idea that it's with them. If it is the case that you do not want agriculture, pig production at all, and what do I know if that is what the proposer thinks should be possible, then we will have to make some demands and say that there must be zones for agriculture, but that is not what is in the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505174701	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505174701-2	The proposal is that municipalities should once again be given the opportunity to carry out an overall assessment and thus have a real opportunity to say yes or no. What would the rapporteur think of it if it were the case that we had legislation in Denmark which meant that municipalities would have to say yes to any port enlargement if it were of a commercial nature and not, as it were, to stress that there should be another development for which a local plan would be adopted and which might perhaps mean that there would be some settlement in some abandoned harbour areas or something like that? Is this the kind of dictation that Social Democrats are in favour of? I think it is a totally unfair special status that has been given to agriculture. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505174739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505174741	I have now complained many times about the special status of agriculture, but that is something quite different. In this case, what is being talked about all the time is an overall assessment, and it has never been there. The municipalities were also unable to carry out the kind of overall assessments that the rapporteur is calling for before this legislation came into force. It hasn't been like that, as far back as I can remember.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505174812	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505174814	Thank you. I therefore agree with Mrs Mette Gjerskov that it can be a pity for the industry if legislation is put in place that gives the municipalities the right to reject these huge pig factories. Nevertheless, it is also rather difficult for the local population and for the municipalities that they do not have the right to decide that they want a green municipality that does not have a huge pig farm. And that's why I just think it's important to acknowledge that this is a balance. So, does the rapporteur not agree that we have to weigh up what is most important to you in this matter? Is it to protect the industry, or is it to give municipalities the right to be greener if they want to? In other words, I think that the priorities here are quite wrong, and I think that there is a special treatment for animal farming in this situation. I very much agree with the remarks made by Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen has come along, and I am really sorry that the Social Democrats are so concerned about this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505174910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505174913	I think it's going to sound very uncomfortable. I think it is important to say that there has never been an opportunity to make the kind of overall assessment that we are talking about. And if you want us to be able to say that there should just be no more pigs on Zealand, or whatever wish there is in Holbæk Municipality, or wherever it may be, then you must assume the responsibility of putting forward the legislation that says: Here it is okay, and there it is not okay to have pig production. Or you have to make proposals for specific zones or you have to make proposals for what I know. But just to say that a municipality can do it on the basis of such an overall view, which gives a company no one, then you must step in with legislation if that is what you want to do. Then you have to take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505175015	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505175016	Thank you. The Enhedslisten proposes that municipalities should be able to refuse the extension of livestock farming on the basis of a so-called overall assessment. Let me say straight away that in the Left we are against the Enhedslisten proposal and we are voting against it. Enhedslisten's policy in this area is so well known, since Enhedslisten himself has repeatedly stated that they do not want the large livestock production in Denmark as we know it. And Enhedslisten has indicated on several occasions that they would be comfortable with a significantly smaller livestock production in Denmark. And it can almost only be understood that Enhedslisten would like to say goodbye to the large food exports, the currency income from food exports and the very many jobs that are currently in the food sector and also in the derived sectors in Denmark. But then I would just like to say that instead of trying to attack it technically all the time and try to wrap it up. However, please state plainly that you simply want to eliminate livestock production in Denmark, at least in the form in which we see it now. After all, we have not heard any proposals from the Enhedslisten, at least not yet, about where the money and jobs will come from. Nor can I completely free myself from the idea that besides Enhedslisten apparently does not want livestock production in Denmark at all, as we know it, it may also be related to the fact that Enhedslisten has some different motives and wishes. In other words, we have heard several times that Enhedslisten wants to impose on citizens in a way that they should largely stop eating meat and switch to eating plant foods rather than eating them. There we say in the Left: clear freedom for citizens to decide what should be on the plate, to eat varied and so on. And that's okay if anyone only wants plant food. It is fine with that, but we in the Left think that there should still be freedom to choose good Danish meat, which we are also among those who produce with the lowest environmental and climate footprints. So what the proposers really want with the proposal can basically only be read in such a way that they want to push the debate on the heavy dismantling of livestock production in Denmark. If the resolution is implemented, as is proposed here by the Enhedslisten, it simply cannot fail to have far-reaching negative consequences for the possibility of building and modernising and operating livestock farming in Denmark, and thus it will also have major negative consequences for the entire food production and all the derived industries, and of course also the socio-economic derivation of it. As has already been pointed out, and as the Minister also well explained at the beginning, there are quite extensive rules today on how to set up stables, including distance and smell, etc. I would just like to refer to what the Minister said very well that the larger the barns are, the longer the distance requirements are, and I think it is very bad to read what is in the Enhedslisten's proposal, which refers to 50 metres, as if these pig houses are being put in the middle of the city. I think that is simply trying to wipe away some motives for the farmers they do not have at all. I'm not experiencing that at all. In other words, the resolution will lead to Danish farmers potentially experiencing 98 different ways of dealing with this, and it cannot fail to mean, we can say, marked differences, and that the industry as a whole does not know what to stick to. Let me also point out that there is a significant development of technology in the housing sector today, and at the same time there are now far more demands for housing than were made in the past, both for interior design and for air and smell and emissions and distance, etc. I am also surprised that Enhedslisten is drawing this up in relation to sewage treatment plants, so let me also just point out the technology development and practical development that is taking place around biogas plants. After all, we have just tried to pick up the nutrients and get them into recycling so that waste can be used in all possible ways. Fortunately, many people are delighted about this, including in the climate and environmental context and in the recirculation context, so that the substances can be used to the full. The farmers who are currently investing in new stables, I would like to invest in the latest equipment, also to remove these various odour genes. So we think we should start crediting them for it instead of trying to suspicious them in the way we see it in the way it is presented in the debate. It's not just to keep the rules. However, overall I can say that, as it stands, we cannot, of course, support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505175538	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505175541	I do not think that if we gave the municipalities this right to carry out an overall assessment, there would be 98 different assessments. I think Frederiksberg, Copenhagen, Ishøj, Brøndby and a number of other municipalities would take the same position. So that's not where we're gonna end up at all. Left asks about Enhedslisten's motives. After all, we are faced with a water framework directive, which the EU says we must comply with, in which we must reduce our nitrogen load from 60,000 tonnes to 42,000 tonnes by 2027. I don't really think I've heard the Left's offer on how we're gonna make it. We have a climate agenda in which almost all parties, including the Left, are involved in reducing our CO2 We have an agriculture that emits 10-11 million. t and to contribute to that reduction. We are going to be a zero-emission society by 2050, and we are not going to do that by getting more pigs. So it is quite natural that this overall assessment will be a tool that the municipalities can use to assess whether they want to say yes or no to the expansion of a livestock farm. But when you look at our proposal, it is a proposal that allows the municipalities to say no. Can't the former mayor of Broby see that it's an advantage that we have a municipal autonomy that has a local influence and you're not just a rubber stamp?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505175659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505175700	We in the Left fully support municipal autonomy, but we must also have a single framework at national level. That is why, as a Leftman, I am glad that over the last 18 to 19 years the Left has been in government in the 14 of them, I think it is. I can therefore welcome the fact that emissions have fallen from more than 150,000 tonnes to some fifty thousand tonnes if I do not remember quite wrongly right now. So I can only say that I am glad then that we have made a very strong contribution to reducing discharges to the aquatic environment, and we are also ready to enter into further discussions on how to deal with the challenges facing the future. We in the Left also have a clear environmental policy climate line that we must ensure that we have a good, clean environment around us, but we must also be able to produce. When I look at the various requirements that are being made for production, here livestock production, I think it is quite wrong, as Enhedslisten is now provoking it and saying that it is either-or, as if one should choose from either livestock production or the environment. No, it is a question of both and, the answer remains technology development.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505175814	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505175817	I note that there are also Left Mayors who are critical of the rules that are now in place, among others. The mayor of Esbjerg, who is facing a huge expansion of a cattle farm in the municipality of Esbjerg. Can the rapporteur not see that there is a dilemma here in that we are going to reduce our nitrogen leaching to the aquatic environment significantly, and at the same time have some rules that do not allow municipalities to say no to enlargement if it is the case that applicants, like those applying for membership of the common rules, remain within normal rules? Does the rapporteur not see that it is a dilemma that we cannot just say yes to any expansion of animal production?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505175855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505175858	As far as the Esbjerg case is concerned, to which reference is made, as I have been informed, it deals more with some road problems, some road challenges, whether it is a municipal task. The road issue is a municipal challenge. That is why I have also replied that, as far as roads are concerned, it is an Esbjerg task to solve it. So I actually find that the municipalities, whether they are mayors of the Left or mayors of various other colors, generally there may be exceptions, but generally want to have a profession. We want agriculture, we also want pig farming and livestock farming. But we also need clear rules, and they must, of course, be the same across the country. There is no point in having some demands at one end of the country and seeing some other demands at another end of the country, or some say that they do not want it at all. That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505175940	Thank you. And the next person who has asked for a brief comment and, as I see in the Chamber, Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505175949	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur himself is discussing whether we should eat more plant-based in Denmark. After all, Denmark is the country in the world with Bangladesh, which has the largest agriculture. Last time I checked the numbers, it was 60%. of Denmark, which is covered by agriculture, and that was 80%. of what we produce, which we fill in animals so that animals can eat, so that we can later eat their meat. And precisely meat production is one of the biggest CO2 sinners we have at all. Now comes the question: does the rapporteur think that we can achieve the objective of reducing CO2 emissions by 70%? in 2030, an objective that the Left itself has signed up to, if we continue to eat as much meat as we do now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180040	In the Left, we are in favour of the objectives that have been set, as the rapporteur himself has said. As far as the extent of the area used in Denmark for agricultural production is concerned, we have also been involved in saying and proposing and actually starting pilot projects by taking out some of these low bottom soils. It may make sense to take out some of them and use them for example. afforestation, biodiversity objectives and other things where it makes sense. So fine with that. As far as the plate is concerned, it is the citizens who decide absolutely sovereign what to do on the plate. There are some national dietary advice to eat variedly, and of course I don't think anyone does eat meat from morning to evening throughout the week, but vice versa just to eat variedly. I think that's the best and the healthiest. Since we in Denmark are among the countries that produce the meat most environmentally friendly and climate-friendly, it would be a disservice to do the environment and climate a disservice to push it out of the country. Then we have to say that it is good for the climate that meat is still being produced in Denmark when we do it in the way we do now, and even the frontrunners in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180148	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180150	But what does the rapporteur think that we can never achieve that objective of reducing CO2 emissions by 70%? in 2030, if we continue to eat as much meat as we do now? I mean, the Left has voted in favour of that reduction in CO2. What is the rapporteur's view that if we follow the rapporteur's arguments, we will not achieve that objective?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180210	The answer is technology development. That is exactly what a great many of us can say, as experts say. Our technology development has brought us here where we are now, and then there is a lack of further technology development in order to achieve completely the goal, and there are also some years to develop on that. So that is the answer to it: more technology development.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180228	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Lise Bech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180239	Thank you. This motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten will actually roll back some of L 114, part of the agricultural package adopted in February 2017, which deals with the separation of the regulation of livestock housing and the application of manure to field areas. The change in law in 2017 meant that it is today the municipal council that allows and approves the facilities, i.e. stables, etc., while the regulation of application areas is done by general rules. The purpose of the 2017 amendment was inter alia: to create greater flexibility and administrative simplifications for Danish livestock producers. That is what the authors of the motion for a resolution themselves write here. However, the authors of the motion for a resolution have forgotten to include the rest of the text, namely that it must take account of nature and the environment and ensure shorter processing times for authorisations and environmental authorisations for livestock farming. You can say calmly, and the minister mentioned it before • that something really happened with the processing times, when it was 7.9 months in 2013, and I think the minister went back to 10 months, but in 2018 it was down to about 4 months, and it really matters when you have been out seeking to expand your business and borrow money, etc. So a processing time down to 4 months is important. This resolution comes on the basis of the municipalities, and then you think: how many municipalities is this really about? Because I think it is the same municipalities that are mentioned over and over again. I have also read the letters about large livestock farms from some of these municipalities, and I understand their dilemma, and I think it is actually a very good thing that the Minister says that the Health Authority should check whether there is anything in this from the Netherlands. 'Cause I've also got letters from some about this smell gene thing, which is described in the Dutch studies. However, it can actually be said that the level of environmental protection and the protection of neighbors in terms of smell and noise are unchanged from the previous rules. So the rules have actually been there all along, and that means that if we had not changed the law in 2017, these municipalities would not have granted permits for the extension of agriculture, even if all environmental considerations had been respected. It says a little about the importance of having national environmental requirements so that livestock producers can seek to expand and be treated equally, regardless of the postal code in which they live. I also know of a municipality where not all the council members support the letter that the municipality has sent us, and that is the municipality of Skanderborg, and I very much agree. It is the City Council of the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives, who say that the municipality, as managing authority, has both sufficient influence and scope to make overall assessments and make decisions in matters of enlargement in agriculture. They have attached a note from the municipality's administration stating that the municipality's possibility of concrete assessment and overall assessment remains with the current rules. They do not believe there is a need for change, but want to continue to maintain uniform rules in this area. We have 98 municipalities in Denmark, and we have heard and read about a handful of municipalities that have challenges, and it is of course always sad when there are some things that are not running on track, and of course we also have to take that seriously. But I think we have heard the Minister say that today. But doesn't it work in most municipalities? Otherwise you have to have it up in KL in some way, I think. However, on the whole, I believe that the amendment of the law that came in 2017 works as intended, and therefore the Danish People's Party cannot support the Enhedslisten resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180702	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180711	Well, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is quite right that this proposal here is a proposal for rollback of parts of the blue agricultural package. I actually understand that the duration of the proceedings has come down when the municipalities cannot say no; that is quite natural. Councillor Kim Welcher, who sits on the city council for DF on Langeland and also sits on the board of the National Association against Svinefabriks, which has just been formed • writes yesterday on his facebook page: • It is no place to force the municipalities to accept extensions of pig factories with many thousands of pigs if the factory is close to a village or people's homes. Perhaps the municipality plans to increase tourism in the area, or maybe the municipality will build a kindergarten or a natural path or something else in the area. Being forced to accept large pig factories can also completely pierce a municipality's climate accounting, as climate gases are constantly flowing from these industrial meat factories. I would like to know why Kim Welcher, on the town council at Langeland, together with the rest of the city council, must not have the opportunity to say no to the expansion of meat factories that he is pointing out here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180828	We have made a change of law that means that we have national rules and there are environmental considerations that have always been. That is to say, I am sorry to say that some municipalities have acted on emotions and not on facts, because we have not deteriorated environmental requirements compared to previous ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180853	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180855	I would really like to hear about something from the Danish People's Party. Now Dansk Folkeparti has a number of council members around, and should we have such a alignment of Denmark, where the same rules apply everywhere? Would it be reasonable for us also to have some legislation that meant that all municipalities should say yes to port expansions if there were any professions that would like to see an extension of ports, otherwise we should be able to choose something else locally if we wanted to give priority to tourism or settlement? Does the rapporteur not think it is right that we have municipalities that are different, can set different priorities and can define municipal plans that define what they want?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505180939	Local government is a good thing in many respects. This is about some professions being treated the same, no matter where they are housed in the country. And you still have the opportunity to make local plans in the municipalities, because local plans are still being made. But it is because this is happening in rural areas, where there is probably a town or a village, and then they must not expand. Today, however, local authorities also have the opportunity to make local plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505181009	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and then we go further in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505181020	I need to start by bringing proportions into this debate, because I feel like an accusation that we are hysterical because we are concerned about very extensive livestock production in Denmark. Denmark is now the country in the world that produces the most pig per head. In fact, we have so many pigs that we could halve the stock and still keep first place, except for a few small Pacific islands. That is extreme, and unfortunately so is the cost. That is why we support the proposal, even if it is a roll-back of a legislative proposal that we voted for in 2017. Unfortunately, however, this proposal has ended in a different way than we had hoped, because quite big words and very nice words were used when this new livestock regulation was made. The aim was to create a more uniform regulation of livestock production across municipalities. We supported what was then called a paradigm shift because we thought that it would be used to set a high level of protection, but instead it has been used to lower the level of protection and to remove the possibility for municipalities to pull in the emergency brake if significant local conditions were against the expansion of livestock. Over the last few years, we have seen how one local community after another has been transformed into an industrial zone and how municipal politicians have watched with increasing frustration because they could not come to the rescue of these small communities. I recently visited such a small community at Tuse Næs at Holbæk, which is a completely wonderful area between fjords and with forests, protected beaches and rare orchids, but in the small area there are also six pig farms, and now the owner will extend one of them to staggering 50,000-75,000 pigs a year. It is a tenfold increase in the current stock, and it will require a stable of 7,500 m2, i.e. the equivalent of six, seven large sports halls plus five high feed silos. One thing is what it will mean for the aesthetic quality of the area to place such a mastodon in the middle of the open country, another is the enormous health, environmental, natural, traffic and economic consequences it will have for such a small area. The pig factory will be about 50-100 metres from the nearest neighbour and 500 metres from a Natura 2000 area with rare orchids. Both nature and people will be affected massively by the increased pollution with ammonia, nitrogen and other substances, and already today the locals tell you that you should be lucky to find an orchid where there were formerly blankets of them. And then there is the health burden, which fortunately we are glad the Minister is now drilling into, but it is a recurring problem that not a great many people have an interest in having it adequately examined. We hear Agriculture & Food hiding behind the fact that no Danish studies have been carried out showing that there is a negative health impact, but no studies have been carried out either, because who has an interest in investigating it, who has an interest in posting money in it? Then I know that there are some people who might say that people in the countryside have agreed to live with the genes of agriculture, so they just have to put up with it, but a pig farm which is six, seven football fields large, is not a farm, it is a factory, and people in the countryside have never agreed to live up and down polluting factories that cause them physical nuisances, strain the area with heavy traffic and destroy nature. You move to the countryside to enjoy the fresh air, the beautiful nature and the cohesion, not to suddenly see your village transformed into an industrial zone of heavy traffic, air pollution and depopulation, and then you don't even get the same rights as neighbours of industrial companies, and then you don't even have any local politicians who can listen to you and help you, because they are completely out of the game. That's what we're trying to do about here. And yes, a uniform national regulation would have been fine if we had a high level of protection, but we do not, and so we would like to reinstate the municipal emergency brake, where, at least as a local community, you can go to your local politician and say: Help us, this does not last. That's what you can do with the other industry, and that's why I think this focus has been so misguided, because you only focus on the need for uniformity and parallelism between livestock producers and the rest of the industry. But there is no parallelism with the other industry when we talk about where it must lie, because there is quite a different type of protection, but that protection is just not for people living in the countryside. It is totally unfair, especially when it is not about shutting down all pig production in Denmark, but about having such a large pig production in Denmark and, unfortunately, it just seems to be growing and growing and increasingly industrialised. So I would like to say that yes, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505181529	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505181533	Thank you for supporting the motion for a resolution, and thank you to the Radicals for changing their position since they helped adopt the last amendment to the law. Zenia Stampe unfolded it from the reality and from what happens out there. Because it is grotesque that, when you have a local community where people have chosen to settle because there are some natural values, you find that there is an application from a pig producer who wants to expand so massively. It's kind of crazy. After all, 50 000 pigs of pigs represent a nitrogen load, which is equivalent to the creation of an urban community of 30.000 inhabitants. These are some wild quantities, and then it's not because there's a sewage treatment plant for that discharge, because that's kind of something you look out on the fields every year and that causes genes. It is very good that the Minister for the Environment will now investigate something new. I think it is a good thing that the Radicals say so clearly that there is a reason why the Radicals have changed their views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505181640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505181643	Thank you for those words. It wasn't that much of a question, so just thank you for the good cooperation. I think that what is important is to explain to people and that is not so much to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, because he is the proposer, and he knows it is that if you live in the countryside, you now live in a reality where you per. definition lives in an industrial zone. It just wasn't like that before, but that's the way it is today. If you live in the country, you just don't have the rights that the rest of us have because your territory per year. definition is an industrial zone with the type of livestock regulation we have here. We simply do not think this is fair to the people who live in the countryside, nor do we think that it is fair to the nature that we otherwise do everything possible to favour at a time when we are gradually becoming aware of how strained it really is. This also applies to some of the areas seriously affected by the pig industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505181750	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505181751	Thank you. It is correctly understood that it was not so much a question. It is sometimes difficult to unfold all your positions in one minute. Thank you, however, for the rapporteur's choice of going to visit the local population, which is a mess, because that is what they are. They will be even more pig-stricken in the future if the municipality abides by the rules. I think this is a rather strange debate. I would like to call on the rapporteurs to continue and participate in the debate in an interaction with organisations and local people, so that perhaps one day the Social Democrats take a different view.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505181825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505181827	I can just say I agree. I also read, moreover, in my preparation for this debate, the excellent rapporteur speech made by our President at the time for the SF in connection with the processing of livestock legislation. However, I would just like to say that I am very pleased with the cooperation that is taking place across the board, and I hope that we can only, in general, create a greater awareness of the very high costs that our livestock production brings. I think most Danes know that we have a lot of pigs, but I think they may not be aware of how much costs our society really costs because of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505181903	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur is from the Left, sir. Erling Bonnesen. No, I'm sorry, sir. Erling Bonnesen has a brief comment to make to Mrs Zenia Stampe is that not correct? Erling Bonnesen Jo). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505181917	Thank you. Well, that's a clear speech from the Radicals. They say you're running from the bill and so on.; that cannot be said more clearly. Now I don't remember whether it was a settlement or an agreement or how it was screwed up, but I think we'll find out. But it doesn't look like radicals to run away from what you usually do. But it's a clear speech here, that is, that you do. I'm just gonna sit around and think about how you try to glorify old times. There are many good things about old times, but we don't have to go back like that. I think there are many who know before the manure and the ale ran into the stream in many places, completely unclean. There we can just say that today there are far greater demands for it; fortunately we simply must not do so. So we can say that we have got a much higher and better standard today than we had years ago. There it really was in many places with both fish and fauna in the creeks. So does the radical rapporteur recognise that today we have far stricter demands on our productions than they had just a few years ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182024	I recognize that. I also hope that the rapporteur from the Left recognises that Danish agriculture has now become industry. In other words, those who live next to a farm today often live next to an industrial establishment, and that is why, of course, they must also enjoy the same protection as people who otherwise live next to industrial enterprises. Then I hope that the Left, with the roots of the Left, will also reflect a little on the centralisation that has taken place in agriculture, because that is one of the reasons why we have seen the depopulation in the countryside, which we have unfortunately witnessed. Now we have a reality where it may be one family that owns a lot of farms. There is agriculture that stands empty, where an employee comes a few times a day to look after the pigs, but by the way, no family or anyone lives there and contributes to the community. It must surely give thought to a party which has roots in the countryside and which normally speaks for rural life.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182129	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182131	Well, of course, we are very much reflecting on that. We have done so, we are doing so now, and we will continue to do so. We are also in favour of a large, varied sector, and now the speaking time is not enough to explain it, but I have done so on previous occasions. And right here, and that is my answer to what is also referred to, we have to act in the reality we are in, where we also have to be competitive. But then we also say, and that is also part of the debate, that it is precisely with the demands that are being made for it. Now the rapporteur says that there is no orchid next door, but there are also other places without any livestock production where the orchid is not there either. Then there are also some places where the orchid was not there, but where it might have come. So don't blame livestock production for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182217	There are many different reasons why nature is under pressure. But there is no doubt that, despite all sorts of treatment plants and new technologies, the discharges that also come from these very large pig farms are a burden on nature; I do not think there is any doubt about that at all. Well, I am aware that there are some pig farmers in Denmark who make good money on it, i.e. on producing pigs, also right now, because prices are as high as they are, but it is a really tough industry. There are a lot of people who find it difficult to make it run around because it's all about selling as cheaply as possible. So perhaps at some point one might also ask oneself: should Denmark's nature suffer because we have to sell cheap pigs to China? I must admit that I sometimes have some doubts about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182305	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182309	That's amazing. It is, of course, as if it were going to be something quite different from what the resolution is all about. And this is a fantastic rhetoric of the radical rapporteur. But now I come quietly with only one question here from North Jutland. I would like to know in what way the level of environmental protection has changed, by the fact that it is not the municipalities that are making this decision, but by the fact that it is national environmental requirements that we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182343	Well, that's changed by the fact that the municipalities can't pull on the take-off. It's pretty important where the municipalities could say in the past that it may well be that you observe some things here, but that there are all sorts of things that argue that it's not appropriate that we place a huge pig factory close to this community. It costs a great deal not only to the local community, but perhaps also to the local environment and nature, which may be an attraction to that municipality. And so it can lead to a loss in the long term, because you cannot make a profit from that tourism or attraction because it suffers from these expansions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182420	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182423	But can we not agree that if there is an environmental problem, i.e. if it does not meet the requirements, then this building will be rejected and it will not happen? They will only be allowed to build if the building complies with all environmental requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182448	Yeah, but those demands are too low. And if you take the trouble, and the rapporteur may have done so, to go out to some of the communities affected by this, then you will also be standing in such an idyllic village thinking: what will it do about this community and this village, that in a few years there is a stable the size of six, seven football fields, five giant silos, and that there is transport that runs around the clock with small live pigs? What does that do for the local environment? So that is where the municipalities have so far had the opportunity to say: we will not stand up for that; we will protect our communities there, instead of the one pig farmer who gets something out of it. And that's what it's all about protecting society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182531	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182535	Thank you. This is an exciting debate, in which it is clear that agriculture must be beaten out: pig-tied, pig factories. On the whole, there was a condescending attitude towards Danish agriculture, which creates 170 billion. kr. home a year in export. I have to ask Mr Radicale's rapporteur a question. When we amended the livestock law in 2017, there was no deregulated or relaxed in any area, and that is a fact. And then I have to ask: how much have those factories, which the rapporteur now mentions several times, changed since 2017? Nothing. The Radicals are turning completely on a plate; they have known all the prerequisites for the legal basis that L 114 had and yet they are jumping from today because the rapporteur has been looking at a farm. Well, I live in the middle of them and live in it every day. It is unbelievable that you can make legislation that you get into a different mood because you've been out for a drive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182649	I've been out in one place, but I've had countless calls from local communities all over Denmark that are affected by this problem and that are currently in the situation that they're being told from the municipality: you can't get any help here because we're forced by the national legislation to give these permits. And that is why we are now being approached by municipal politicians, by mayors, who say: give us back the opportunity that we can pull the emergency brake if we want to come to the rescue of these small communities. That's why we're here today. That's because reality calls. The reality has shown that the assumptions used have not become the ones we eventually look out in reality. That's why we're here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182737	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182740	Yes, reality has not changed. Well, reality is exactly the same as it was in 2017. But the Radical Left has changed. They have apparently been given a new task, and that is to be on the extreme left and to be outspoken Danish agriculture. I simply do not understand that with the profession which has also been supported for many, many years in radical circles. And then it's just a development we've had from Morten Korch up to now. And I can say that the Morten Korch era was much, much more environmentally harmful than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182819	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182822	I simply do not want it sitting on me that we should be against agriculture. In fact, I think we are defending agriculture. But what we are critical of is the agricultural industry and I know that in many places it has been the only way to survive, to industrialize, to centralise, to achieve economies of scale. But the cost we can see today is precisely that agricultural land has been converted into industry in some places. And we allow ourselves to be critical of this, because we also have roots in the domestic movement. We do not have roots in the pig industry, we have roots in the domestic movement, where it is about rural life, ecology, small farms and so on. So this is not a hetz against agriculture, but it is a clear position on what kind of agriculture we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182908	There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Radicals, so we shall move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mr Gundelach. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505182917	Thank you. I think it's hard to come after Mrs. Zenia Stampe, who made a really nice speech about this. I think it is an important proposal from the Enhedslisten to give municipalities the right to reject extensions of livestock production. Thank you very much for that suggestion. We all know that it is mainly about pig factories, which there have been lots of local protests against, and Greenpeace has in fact also stood outside Christiansborg today to mark its support for the proposal here. As has already been mentioned, we are therefore in a rather special situation in Denmark. Denmark is the country in the world that produces the most meat per year. citizen, and no country in the world has so many pigs per. citizens, as Denmark has. In fact, we produce more than 32 million pigs every year, and it is therefore the neighbours, the environment, nature, biodiversity and animals that pay a high price for this. There are a great many applications for expansion of production at the moment, and unfortunately there is no local opportunity to say no. I think that is a problem, and I think it is a pity that the Parliament is paying attention to the opportunity for pig farmers to expand and their pursuit of profit so much in relation to the environment and local democracy and the wishes that one might once have in the individual municipality. Because you do not have, for example. 5,000 pigs to have 40,000, so it changes everything in a local area. It can mean much more noise, more ammonia pollution, bad smell, heavy traffic and several other things, and as has already been mentioned in the debate, there is therefore more and more focus on the health risks that may be associated with living near a pig factory. And if you are in doubt about health, there is no doubt at all that many of the people who live close to them will have a deterioration in their quality of life. It has been quite clear with the protests that there have been some citizens who are very, very frustrated to be in a situation where they feel very powerless. The municipalities have been sidelined, although there are very serious problems for the citizens of the municipalities and for the nature of the municipalities, and that is why there are several municipalities which have also been mentioned in the debate here. Holbæk, who is very dissatisfied with the scheme as it is today. In my optics, this calls for urgent action by the Green majority here in the Folketing. However, in order for us to be able to deal seriously with the problem here, I also think it is important that we ensure that all municipalities make a great effort to protect citizens from hazardous air pollution from livestock farming and to protect nature and biodiversity from ammonia and nitrogen overload. It should not just be the municipalities that have a green majority. That is why we in the Socialist People's Party are also clearly calling on the government to take the initiative for a fundamental change in the regulation of livestock production. We produce too many animals today and far more than health, neighbors, nature and biodiversity can tolerate. Therefore, stringent emission limit values must be set for all relevant pollutants and emissions must respect the local tolerance limits for health and nature and, in general, emissions must be continuously reduced and the best technology must always be used. The proposal here in my optics is fairly quiet and brings the legislation back to what it has been in the past, but I also think that this is a major debate on what kind of country we really want to be, and Mrs Zenia Stampe also mentioned it earlier. Do we really want to be a country that is one big pig factory? Do we want to be world champions in pigs? We want to be a country where 60%. of the entire area of Denmark consists of agriculture, and 80%. is it made up of the production of animal feed? Will we be a country that writes about as World Forests in their report that appeared yesterday, I think it was felling rainforest in South America to produce soy, which we then sail on ships to Denmark to feed our pigs, and then we kill the pigs, freeze their bodies and transport the majority of them abroad to China with huge climate consequences? Will we be such a country, or will we be a country in which people are protected and where the environment and nature are put first? Will we be a country that produces the sustainable food of the future instead of focusing primarily on the food of the past and being world champions in pigs? Will we be a country that is turning down intensive meat production? I hope we will be. I have no doubt that I will choose the latter, and I also hope that one day the Folketing will do so. Thank you for the floor. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505183408	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First of all, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505183416	Thank you. I sit around like this and sometimes listen to some of these things in this flame talk, and at least at the beginning it sounds like if you have pig farming there can't be, for example. tourism. That's not true. I can clearly see places I know then several completely specific places where there is also tourism and where there are many tourists. And that's what we call quite close to pig farming. There's no problem with that. It is even a tourism company that has been built up while pig farming has been there. There's no problem with that. There are also areas where there are challenges with biodiversity and where that is not so, you might say, also moved around over the years. So I would say in this way that the rapporteur's arguments are not at all related to the way in which the flame talk is that agriculture is responsible for everything. It doesn't add up. It is usually the case that the SF is in favour of there being a professional basis for things. There is no such thing here. Sustainable food is also being produced in Denmark. However, at least the first two things I would like the rapporteur to address: how can it be that there can be tourism companies, and how can it be that there are also challenges with biodiversity elsewhere where there is no livestock production?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505183540	Thank you! The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505183544	I am glad that the rapporteur from the Left thinks I gave a speech on flames. I am also very indignant about the large animal production and the climate and environmental consequences that it has. It is quite true that you can have tourism activities, even if you have pig factories, but nevertheless you can also find yourself in a situation where the municipality actually has plans to create a municipality where there is a focus on tourism, but not so many people want to come out and see a pig factory that you cannot then say no to. Then I am accused of not having a professional basis in relation to the focus on biodiversity and something like that in this context. In other words, it is quite clear, as has been pointed out on several occasions by the UN Panel on Climate Change, that one of the absolutely greatest challenges globally in terms of biodiversity, climate and land use is intensive meat production. There is no discussion of this at all. Our huge problems with land use are, of course, due to the fact that we have to produce so much feed for the animals we eat. So there is plenty of professional basis for us to reduce animal production.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505183645	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505183648	It's nice to keep the flames talking. It would also be very good if they were then well and strongly supported. However, in relation to the first part of that on tourism, I am glad that the rapporteur, somewhere, let me use a mild expression, rushes to go ashore and acknowledges that this is the reality. There's, uh... there's... There's no problem with that. Then there's the other thing. The rapporteur skipped that a little, but there is one more chance: how can this be linked to the fact that there are also challenges with biodiversity in places where there is no livestock production? There is no point in standing here and blaming livestock production for all the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505183721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505183732	Now there are many things that result in poorer biodiversity, but animal production is one of the very, very important factors. There is no doubt about that. So I don't really think that's an argument. Then I must also disappoint the rapporteur, because I am not going to go ashore in relation to tourism. I'm just saying, of course, there can be both tourism and a pig factory, but sometimes pig factories come along and set their feet for a development one would like to have in a municipality. It may be tourism, but it may also be many other things, and I think that is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505183806	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505183809	Thank you. When you listen to the rapporteur, you get the impression that the Danish environment is totally ruined by agriculture. I would then recommend that the rapporteur go in and see the Danish Radio documentary broadcast from Ringkøbing Fjord from last year, where there were ornithologists and biologists out, and where it is found that Ringkøbing Fjord has never been in better condition than it is now. I live out there myself. Our rivers and streams have never been better, but we need to hear a story in here from the left that agriculture destroys the environment completely. The truth is quite different. It is not allowed to come forward because it is bombarded by the fact that agriculture is totally destroying the environment. No, agriculture's got things under control. In my childhood, I can promise the dear rapporteur that it was not under control. It is a completely different world today and it is a completely different environmental situation that we have. That is why I believe that we should stop cutting out agriculture as an environmental pig.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505183920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505183925	I would like to see the documentary that the rapporteur calls on me to see. I do not really think that this is a question of cutting out agriculture, because of course we must have an agriculture. That's extremely important. To point out that, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. If we are to have less pig production, we do not have to have any farming at all. If we are to change our diet, there must also be those who grow more vegetables and more plants for us, so there is a need for agriculture. Nor do I think it is a question of scolding those who produce these goods. In other words, we are not ashamed of car manufacturers when we talk about air pollution either, but surely we need to talk about the problems we have in our society with animal production, which is extremely destructive in terms of our climate, environment and biodiversity. This is one of the biggest problems globally in terms of land use and in terms of our environment and our climate. I cannot understand why it is so problematic to address it in here, but it seems that for many years there has been a very great fear of contact in this room in relation to talking about the problems caused by animal production. I'm glad to try to shake it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184027	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184030	There has just been no fear of touch. That is why it has been tackled. That is why we have legislated so that we can sort this out. But there is a different view, despite the fact that we have managed to sort it out. Denmark's Radio has made a documentary about it. This is the first time I have ever seen the Danish Radio do something positive about Danish agriculture and the environment. Ringkøbing Fjord is something very central, because from within Silkeborg the water comes out, and it is through lots of farmland. And it's great today. So perhaps it is the case that you should try to get a different idea of what it is like to create jobs and create production, so we in Denmark have something to live on and have something to export. You shouldn't just think that's how it's supposed to be shut down. I think we should ask ourselves: what are we going to live on?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184118	I am very interested in Denmark having strong export companies. In fact, I have also asked the Minister for Food a number of questions about researching the sustainable proteins, plant proteins of the future, the development of laboratory meat and many other foods of the future that can create great export adventures for Denmark. So I think that is really important. I think it is a funny story coming from the rapporteur that we have it under control today. One has obviously not I have just been talking about how we cut down rainforest in South America and how this production has huge consequences for climate and environment. I think that much remains to be done in Danish agriculture, and we intend to continue to focus on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184158	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184205	I had actually decided not to say anything, but now the rapporteur repeated it again: we are cutting down rainforests. The rapporteur knows that we import less than 1%. From Brazil? It wouldn't make any difference. I think we should import sustainable soya if we are to import something, and best, as the rapporteur himself says, use something protein rich that we produce in Denmark. But it is not Denmark that is responsible for the felling of rainforests. We just have to agree on that. We import less than 1%, and if we didn't import it, it just moved somewhere else. I remember it because we have had a proposal from the Enhedslisten to ban soya imports. But don't keep repeating that it's our fault that it's Denmark's fault that we cut down rainforest. It's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184307	Denmark imports soy equivalent to an area as large as the whole of Zealand and Falster and even more than that, and we do so to feed our millions of pigs. In relation to how much rainforest is being felled, I can recommend that the rapporteur take a look at the report presented yesterday by the World Forests. I've only had time to skim it because it just arrived. But they actually point out that we or Danish Crown in particular have absolutely no control over where their soy comes from, but that at least they can in no way deny that it comes from rainforest precipitation. So I definitely think it's worth pointing out. I also think it is important to remember at all that regardless of where you get the soy from even if you ensure that there is no felling of the rainforest it is extremely unsustainable to produce so much feed to drive it through some pigs so that we can eat them. It is much, much more productive and much more sustainable if we move towards producing plant food for humans instead of producing as many animals as we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184407	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184410	We must import sustainablely as long as we need to import soya. I would prefer it to be stopped, and I think we can agree on that very much. What I don't like is this rhetoric, where it sounds like it's Denmark's fault as the only country in the world that rainforests are being cut down, and that's not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184431	No, there is a lot of rainforest that Denmark has no responsibility for, but Denmark has a share of responsibility, and Denmark has a share of responsibility in particular when we have the most intensive pig production in the world. So it's a pretty wild record and a pretty shameful record in my optics too. So I will continue to focus on the need to reduce the Danish pig production, to feed the pigs that are now more sustainable feed, and to focus politically on changing the diet of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184502	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184508	I did not intend to take the floor either, but I just have to say something about this soy production in Brazil. If you go back 50 years and compare with today, the area of rainforest in Brazil today is approx. 80% of what it was 50 years ago. This is mainly due to the fact that Brazil's population has grown from 136 million to 210 million. By far most of what you use, you use to feed the population. From the year 2000 until today, there has been a completely different view of nature management in Brazil, so it is only 5 per cent. the area that has disappeared in Brazil since the year 2000, because the Brazilians have adopted a different approach to nature management. That's only 7%. of the deforested area, i.e. 7%. Of the 20% I mentioned, which is used for soya production at all, so it is crazy to produce it as if this soy production has anything to do with the way the rain forest is managed and the nature management that is in Brazil. I think the rapporteur could accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184605	In other words, that there are some other things that are involved now I can see that it looks as if my speaking time has run out, but I do not suppose that this is the case does not mean that Denmark does not have a responsibility in this regard, and when we import soy so much, I do not see the problem in highlighting that it actually has some consequences in South America too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184624	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl and you can get a little closer to the microphone, so it's easier to hear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184632	But we are just standing in a very nice and important room, namely the Danish Parliament, and I think we should be careful about fake news there. It is very easy to present it as if, as the rapporteur, Mr von der Vring, said. Carl Valentin, does, soy production into Danish agriculture somehow has a significant impact on nature management in Brazil. Brazil has had a completely different nature management since the year 2000, than has been the case before, and that is a very, very small part of the gradually rather small part of the rain forest that is being cut down, which is being used at all for soy production. It is about the growing population of Brazil and it is perfectly legitimate for the Brazilian Government to take care of its own people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184712	I think it's violent to be accused of fake news, and I really don't see what I've said that was supposed to be wrong. It is true that there are some special conditions in Brazil with population increases and such things that are relevant to this. I have not talked about the enormous importance of this, but I have talked about the impact of Danish pig production. It's relatively significant compared to how small a country we are. I think that this is essential to focus on, and I also see that there are many green interest organisations that are raising this agenda these days, most recently the Forests of the World, and I do not think there is anything unpleasant about pointing that out in this fine hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184749	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is from the Conservative People's Party, sir. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505184759	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I am actually very proud that we have a Danish agriculture, which is the world's largest producer of pigs as well. It is the basis for Danish jobs, it is the basis for Danish prosperity, it is a culture that we have known for centuries. And it is really weird today to see that the Radical Left, after two and a half to three years, is jumping from an agreement where nothing has changed. It is so obvious that in Danish agriculture some politicians can be expected to do so, but it does not create a better basis for being a farmer; that is, it does not create the support that you really need as a farmer. Because it's a profession where you work hard if everyone here knows what it's like to work hard and when you work hard in a profession and do your best, it's not nice to be constantly rude for you to mess, and because animal production is one of the worst things you've ever invented in the world, and we'd rather live off plants all together. That is not the case, and it is not the case, but that is what is being talked about and spoken about by the left. After all, the purpose of what we carried out in 2017 under the Animal Welfare Act was to create greater flexibility in administrative simplifications for livestock producers, taking into account nature and the environment, and to ensure shorter processing times for permits. Yes, we have got shorter processing times, they have become much, much shorter, and this has meant that we have been able to streamline these things to a degree, so that is how it is if we look at it from the local authorities, and I just heard yesterday that farmers have an opportunity very, very quickly to get started with a production once they have decided. And in relation to permits and environmental authorisations for these livestock farms, there has been no change; it is clear that there are no changes in the livestock law since 2017. There has been no relaxation, we have kept to the rules that were • we're just controlling it centrally now, instead of being able to face coincidences in the municipalities. One might try to imagine that Enhedslisten's rapporteur suddenly became mayor of Lemvig Municipality; this could have some terrible consequences for our municipality, where he would probably shut down half of it, so we halved pig production in the municipality of Lemvig. That's why it's good that we've got a national management of this. After all, the livestock law contains a large number of provisions which ensure that livestock farming is not a nuisance to neighbours, nature and local areas. Smell and noise requirements still need to be strict in relation to neighbours, and if livestock farming is close to ammonia-sensitive nature, the rules for ammonia are very, very strict in Denmark. It has strangled quite a lot of agriculture, i.e. this in relation to ammonia. And the municipalities must ensure that the use of BAT is made by livestock farmers, which means that the latest technology must be included in order to reduce pollution. Landscape considerations must also be assessed by the municipality. And then it is the case that an environmental permit and an environmental permit are needed from the municipality, which is also going to have to be done today; there is no change in that either. And with regard to the health aspect of this, it is the case that there are some standard requirements. Among other things: This is where 50 metres are to be kept, mentioned, but livestock farming must always comply with the smell limits, which means that 50 metres in practice is much longer, because we also have the odour genes that come into play, and if you have to comply with the requirements, it may be that those distances are going to be much longer, and in many cases, even in the municipality from which I come. I can see that Greenpeace is being used here, and they are, of course, spokesmen for the total suffocation of Danish agriculture I am well aware of that. And questions have also been put by the radical rapporteur and by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to the Minister, to whom answers have also been given, and the final answers came to Mrs Zenia Stampe on 14 April and 2 April. And those answers do not tell the story that is being told here in the motion for a resolution that we have been given. It also states that KL has opposed that claim is not correct; KL was generally positive about the legislative changes. Their response to the consultation is given on page 54 of the consultation reply document if it is the case that they will be read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185319	Thank you. That is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185324	Thank you. It is a motion for a resolution to give the municipalities rights, and there are municipal councillors around, including the Conservatives, who have made statements about it. There are, among other things: a statement by a municipal politician from Middelfart • his name is Morten Weiss-Pedersen, and he is chairman of the Environment and Energy Committee in Middelfart Municipality • who says that the municipalities cannot say no to livestock expansions, and: • We have been largely reduced to a rubber stamp. It's just an illusion that we have any influence on this area. If the applicant meets the legal requirements, we can only say yes. This is making fun of municipal self-government, he says to Kommunen.dk·. He refers, among other things, to: to a case for an extension of a large pig factory on northwest Funen. It is, of course, the municipal reality that is also out there, and if there are municipalities that would like to have a lot of pigs, then if you adopt the Enhedslisten resolution, there is indeed still the possibility that they can weigh it. Does the rapporteur not see that the Enhedslisten's proposal merely opens up the possibility of municipal autonomy unfolding?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185439	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185442	After all, the whole premise about what the rapporteur mentions here is that the expansion and establishment of livestock production always require environmental permits or environmental approvals from the municipality. No changes have been made to the livestock law in 2017, but it has been copied in. It has just become national rather than municipal, but it has not changed. These council members who were able to hold meetings on this at the time, but had to comply with exactly the same legislation, just get help from Christiansborg that we will have a completely similar management of this, and I am very comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185533	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185535	Yes, and if it is the case that applicants comply with a certain amount of rules, then the municipal council cannot say no unless they get a big case on their backs. This is what the municipal council members from different parties describe in the letters that they send to the Danish Parliament, and that is why Enhedslisten makes this proposal that we should make it possible for them to say no to an application on the basis of an overall assessment, because locality in that municipality places emphasis on other things than having as many pigs as possible. Does the rapporteur not see that this is a way of giving more influence to municipal councillors?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185615	Thank you. When we adopted the livestock law, it was the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party that decided that there should be no deregulation and relaxation in this area, and neither was there. Environmental permits and environmental approvals must continue to be granted from the municipality. There's no change in that. In other words, what Enhedslisten is presenting today with the motion for a resolution is simply to have it rolled back to being a municipal decision. But the laws and regulations are the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185701	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185706	Where to start and where to finish? Well, let me start with the people who live in the country. Because I understand that Mr. Orla Østerby and the Conservative People's Party are the spokesmen of this case or Agriculture & Foods. But what about the people who live next to these big pig factories or who have the prospect of living next to a big pig factory? What is the Conservative People's Party and Mr. Orla Østerby's answer to them? Is it that they are hysterical and that they just have to put up with the smell of the bakery now that they have chosen to settle in the countryside? Or what will the Conservative People's Party answer them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185746	No, Conservatives' answer is that farmers must, of course, comply with the legislation, and they must, of course, because they must, and the legislation has not been relaxed in what the Radical Left voted for in 2017. The rapporteur has changed, yes, but nothing has changed, and agriculture has not grown bigger in 2020 than it was in 2017. So nothing has changed other than that there is a party that has changed its mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185822	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185829	I think it is insanely disrespectful of those people who have the prospect of destroying their communities that we should turn this into a debate about political fucks and fucks that we have had a different position. That was the first thing I said because I would like to address immediately why we had changed our position on it. I stand by that completely, and I am not ashamed of it. For one of the reasons why I changed my mind was that I have spoken to the people affected by it, and I understand that Mr. Orla Østerby does not, and perhaps he does not, because he would rather make it a political christiansborg fan. I think that is a pity, and I think that is disrespectful to the small communities that are affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185906	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185909	Thank you. I actually live in the environment. I actually grew up in it, so I have respect for it, and I live out there, where it is going and where production is, namely in the outskirts of Denmark, and I think instead of the rapporteur having the respect for it when I say that the environment is not affected by it here in the way it is produced and that we are complying with the legislation that has been put forward. Then it is the case that those who are neighbours to agriculture have exactly the same conditions today as they had in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185945	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so the next rapporteur to speak is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505185954	Thank you for the floor. The Social Democrats' rapporteur of all has set out in an excellent way what should be the principles of sound administration. The framework conditions for all professions and not just agriculture should be stable, otherwise it may not be impossible, but it will certainly be very difficult to plan with a long perspective. It will be difficult to calculate the profitability of the company, it will be difficult to calculate investments, and it will of course also be incredibly difficult to get funding for these investments if the framework conditions are not stable. Then it must also be a basic principle of sound administration that if a citizen or company can meet a set of fairly objective requirements, the citizen or company can also count on the authorisation being applied for. Otherwise, it is some form of guessing competition without any legal certainty whatsoever as to what it is that you have to meet in order to obtain a permit. So these are quite basic principles of good administration, and it is absolutely essential for legal certainty that, as a citizen and as a company, you can count on the fact that if there are certain conditions that are met, then various permits will also be granted. These are perfectly sound, general principles of good administration and of legal certainty, which this motion for a resolution will put at risk. This would undermine the principles of good governance, it would undermine the principles of sound legal certainty, even in a situation where nothing has been changed in the environmental rules that apply. It is exactly the same environmental rules that apply before 2017 and after 2017. It has nothing to do with this proposal. What was done in 2017 just improved administrative practices in Denmark and improved legal certainty, and so we obviously cannot support this proposal. We can hear that this is part of the utterly unsavory war of the extreme left against the province and war on the life of the province, and we cannot, of course, take part in this general and very dictatorial war against peaceful people in the province, and I do not understand why such a proposal can be put forward. But we certainly cannot support it. I should like to say hello to the rapporteur of the new citizens, who has unfortunately become ill. I do not know what exactly he would have said, but at least he reached the same conclusion: New citizens cannot support the proposal either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190227	Thank you. There are some brief comments. It's from Mrs. Zenia Stampe first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190230	Then I'd just like to ask if it's sir. The position of Henrik Dahl and the Liberal Alliance is that every company should have the right to create a factory where they will, if, moreover, they meet some national requirements and the municipality is not able to say: here we do not really think there should be a large factory. It is, in fact, the same logic transferred to an ordinary company or to an ordinary industry. Mr. Henrik Dahl, that we should?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190304	Denmark is a well-regulated country. In the last 30 years, the rule number in Denmark has tripled if measured. No one can just do anything in this country when it comes to production. There's no such thing as just. Of course, you can't just build a factory anywhere. This is a completely fictitious discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190326	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190327	The rapporteur is now answering the question, because what is at issue here is that the state goes in and says that, if they comply with certain requirements, all farms must build these livestock factories wherever they like and whatever the municipality thinks. This is not the case for industrial companies. If I know the Liberal Alliance right, they tend to be quite opposed to state interference. I even heard the rapporteur say something about something dictatorial, but if something is dictatorial, then it is this regulation where the state can go in and say that the municipalities have to accept these pig factories and that they have nothing to say because it is the state that decides.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190408	The state can't decide anything. These rules have come into being because the old set of rules put agriculture in a totally unfair situation with several years of processing. Of course, serious traders cannot be offered that. Of course. But it is clear that if you comply with the rules in force, you must be able to expect permission for what you want. It is completely sound basic management.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190434	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190437	I think it is a good thing that the waves can go a little high, but I would nevertheless ask that we not just regard all people living in the province as being the same. I don't think that's fair. We're kind of different. Nor do I pretend that I represent them all, and I don't want my mouth shut, that I drive hetz against people living in the province. I actually live there 14 km outside of Aarhus. This around pig farming concerns many people who live a little outside the cities. And should I be in doubt, I can take my bike and bike up Hesselballebakken and try to smell how it is up in Hesselballe, and then I can drive home again and say that I'm happy to live in Hjortshøj because there is no pig farming in the city. And there may be different conditions in the different villages around the country, but I would warn against saying that people in the province are the same; we are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190530	This is just a proposal that is quite unfairly distorted in relation to some parts of the province, which will really be hit very hard. Some very, very important industries will be hit really, really hard by this proposal. It's very, very crooked.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190545	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190547	Now we're dealing with the fact that it's about. 0,6% of the Danish population, who are farmers, and they then dispose of 62%. of the area. They have then chosen to have quite a lot of livestock and they are in a situation where 80%. the agricultural area is then used for animal feed. And that is the way in which the profession, which is in some ways quite liberal and which has rules that mean that the municipalities cannot say no to the fact that they are expanding their production. That is the reality that we are facing, and that is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190627	I mean, I'm living in the middle of the reality that this proposal is going to hit, just like Mr. Orla Østerby does. And there is simply no demand in the reality in which we live for such dictatorial regulation at all. It's not a requirement you hear when you're moving around the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190649	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190652	Thank you. I also live on the edge of that reality and when Mr. Henrik Dahl says that we hate the province, then I think that it is one farmer who applies for that permission here, and then there is a great deal in the city, and then there is the town council who might want to refuse to grant it permission. So I don't know exactly where democracy lies in this game. So that's my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190721	Democracy lies in the fact that all citizens and all companies are equal. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190730	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190734	Thank you very much. What I am lurking at is how it can be war against the province, that motions for resolutions propose increased self-determination, so that the municipalities can decide for themselves whether they want to be natural municipalities, climate municipalities, green municipalities or rural municipalities. How on earth can it be war against the province to let the province decide for itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190803	After all, the issue is that there have been quite unreasonable lengths of processing times which have made it completely impossible to operate, and the proposal we made in 2017 was cleared up during these unreasonable lengths of processing times, so that the traditional professions, one has in many places in the province, could be allowed to continue unhindered and not be true in bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190823	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190825	It had nothing to do with an answer to my question. My question was: how can it be war against the province that you let the municipalities decide for themselves, and as far as I understand, LA is a liberal party that wants to let people decide for themselves. How can it be war against the province to let the municipalities decide for themselves whether they want to be rural municipalities, tourist municipalities or natural municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190851	One of the best sociological works written is the forgotten people of Thomas Højrup, who came in 1983, and this is precisely about the war against a particular way of life, and this proposal is clearly just a war against a certain way of life, which is the way one traditionally lives in the province.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190908	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505190916	Thank you. The alternative, of course, supports the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, so that municipalities can refuse applications for the expansion of livestock production, for example. for the sake of neighbours, tourism, nature or other things. We do not just support it because Denmark is the country in the world that produces the most pigs. We do not only support it because approx. 60% of Denmark is covered by agriculture, which together with Bangladesh makes us the country in the world most covered by agriculture; or because 80%. of what we grow is used to feed animals so that we can eat their meat, making meat production a huge CO2 sinner and at least something that we are going to solve. Agriculture will look completely different in 10 years if we are to meet our 70% CO2 reduction target by 2030, and that is, no matter what any rapporteur says. But we particularly support this proposal because it is about local self-determination. It is about the municipalities being able to decide for themselves whether they want to be a rural municipality, a natural municipality, a climate municipality or a green municipality. That is not what agriculture should decide. That is what citizens must decide. The elected politician must decide that. We will not, as the SF rapporteur said, be world champions in pigs if the rural population does not want to be. We want a choice. We want to restore local self-government in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505191047	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Mrs Susanne Zimmer has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505191052	Thank you. I think it is a very good proposal that the Enhedslisten is making here. Virtually all parties here in the Danish Parliament are in favour of a 70% reduction in CO2. We know that agriculture stands for approx. 20% of it, so it seems quite foolish that municipalities are not allowed to refuse applications for new livestock production on the basis that they may have some municipal CO2 objectives, or that they have a consideration of a nature plan for the municipality, or that they will ensure tourism or, above all, that they will take account of the citizens who will be burdened by living close to a large farm which is growing, that is, growing in size after the city is established. We must give the municipalities the power to live out their local democracy and to decide, on the basis of the points mentioned above, whether they will allow that enlargement to take place. We know that more animals require increased soya imports, and already the University of Copenhagen, at the request of the Ministry of Food, has made a statement showing that we are emitting 6.2 million. t CO2 on the basis of soya imports. Instead of supporting greater animal production, we should switch to more vegetable production so that a greater proportion of agricultural production goes directly to human consumption to the benefit of both health and climate. The four of us Green Non-attached Members support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505191241	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the last person to speak is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505191250	Thank you. If anyone is in doubt, it is, of course, a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten to authorise municipalities to refuse, on the basis of an overall assessment, applications for the expansion of livestock production. It is then made clear that this must be done by requiring the government by 2020 to submit a draft law amending the law on livestock farming, so that from 2021 the municipalities are authorised to refuse applications for the expansion of livestock production on the basis of an overall assessment. Some people might have listened to the debate, which might at some point have been in doubt about what we are talking about. But that is what is being dealt with. I would like to thank the Radicals and the SF, who, together with the Enhedslisten, are the parliamentary basis of the government, and who should therefore have a particular significance in working well with the government so that we could arrive at common positions on some points. I would also like to thank the Alternative and Susanne Zimmer for supporting our resolution. I would also like to thank Greenpeace, who has been good at pointing out that there are some experiences in the Netherlands that make their studies perhaps better grounded than the studies we have in Denmark and that there could be one aspect of the health risk that has not been adequately assessed and handled in Denmark. And if I am to be slightly positive about what the Social Democratic Party has delivered today, it can be said that there is a small opening in that, when the Minister gets the health assessments, it could give rise to some things that need to be tightened up. That's how I listen to it on a good day. I think that what we have received from outside the municipal hinterland shows that there are mayors and committees who do not think they have any influence in this way. There are currently rules that, if agriculture meets some general requirements, the City Council cannot say no to the application for the extension of animal production. I understand that it is very hard for local councillors to have no influence. When you look at the nature of what can be applied for, it's pretty wild. In the good old days, when we had the counties, and when I was on the council, yes, we have to go back a few years and there was actually a maximum. the limit on how many animal units you had to have on a farm, and so there were also limits to the land you had on that farm. You'd have to sort them out, too. Now we have come to the conclusion that we have a blue agricultural package which has liberalised some things and which has caused conflict. One thing is that there may be some conflict in the Folketing in a debate that is quite all right ■ another thing is that it has thus also caused conflicts in the countryside. There is no upper limit to how many animal units each farmer may have. The producer of most pigs for slaughter in Denmark produces 236,000 pigs for fattening. There are about five farmers producing more than 100,000 pigs for fattening. And we see a continued concentration of who owns and is responsible for the very large pig teams. There are local people and people who have moved to the countryside, and they probably also appreciate to a certain extent that there is life in the countryside, that there are livestock, but they probably did not just imagine that the neighbour should be allowed to expand so much. Then I think that we have a problem and that we should listen more closely to the town council members and the local people in the countryside. One thing is so close to how it is felt to be a neighbour of a large animal production; another is that we also have some major climate agendas. We have too much ammonia pollution. There have been some questions in this debate as to why this is also so in some places where there is a long way to animal production. There is, in fact, some ammonia pollution, which is airborne, and we have some vulnerable nature in Denmark, where a fallout of 20 kg nitrogen per year. hectares can also be a problem for those plants which, as such, can best live in areas where there is very little nitrogen available. We are faced with a water framework directive in which we have to reduce our nitrogen pollution of our coastal waters from 60 000 tonnes to 42 000 tonnes, and this is a task which is constantly being postponed and which the government has to take very seriously. Why don't you try and make a plan for how we get all the way down there? It is therefore not consistent with having rules which mean that the city council cannot say no to the expansion of animal production locally. We have a climate agenda which, after all, filled the election campaign and in which Enhedslisten has been saying for a long time that we must go for a 70-percent reduction target by 2030. In the end, it came into the government's understanding paper and it ended up with more parties than expected joining that a 70-percent reduction by 2030 is the goal. There are a large number of parties that, in such a way, understand that, by 2050 at the latest, we must be a zero-emission society. And then we stand in such an agricultural country which has an agriculture that emits 10-11 million. t CO2 equivalents and where farm animals account for a very large part of that burden. Surely it is only natural that we should take a rather critical view of the expansion of animal production, which several Left Ministers in the previous government advocated, and where I can listen today to the fact that those who made the blue agricultural package stand entirely by what they did at the time. I think it's crazy to see these extensions of some livestock farms. It is mentioned here today that stable buildings are made up in sizes such as football fields. And if you look at the nitrogen pollution from the large livestock population, I understand that we are critical of the enlargements locally and that, in this way, you look forward to the municipalities again being given an opportunity to be the voice of the local population and to be the body that could and can say yes or no to an application. Then we are in such a coronatide, where there is also a certain focus on where these diseases occur. And what is the risk of having such an animal production in Denmark? After all, we have seen several pandemics which originate in wild animals and which also have some interaction with domesticated animals. What is the risk that the local population and the whole population have, by continuing to have large animal production? I think it is important to look at it more critically, and I understand that some people are concerned. So with this health aspect, which the Minister has started to include, it may be that the studies that you are going into need to be more comprehensive. The Enhedslisten will look at some of the things that have been said today and I think we will be moving towards this resolution coming back to a second reading after a number of questions have been answered. We also want, in fact, if the Danish Parliament is not quick to decide this, and hopes that, and I think that will happen, there will be many council members who will make it part of the forthcoming municipal election campaign next year, that you want more influence, more democracy, so that you can decide what it is for a development that needs to be in your municipality. Should you be a settlement municipality at a certain distance from a larger city, where you weigh nature content and culture and a climate effort, a good infrastructure, or should you be part of Production Denmark, where you accept that there are as many pigs as possible, and take on the jobs that there can also be in that industry, and which are of course nothing to fall on the tail over, compared to what we can get jobs if it is the case that we can attract tourists, such as those in the United Kingdom. comes to Denmark because of a lovely nature? So I think that we should unfold local democracy and give the municipalities greater influence, give the city councils more influence and come back to being able to say no to a concrete application for an extension of animal production from an overall assessment. I look forward to the next chapter where we can have a debate on this subject. I look forward to a committee reading which can dig deeper into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505192240	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505192244	Thank you. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that the whole premise for the new livestock law was that environmental protection was not changed and that municipalities have ample opportunity to protect both nature and neighbors? That's what's inscribed in the law. That was the whole point of departure for what we were doing. I understood from the rapporteur that in ten years' time we will have a completely different agriculture. Could the rapporteur tell us about this? I want to know, so I can go home to Lemvig and the surroundings and tell you how many of them should be allowed to survive. I also heard the rapporteur say that 0.6%. of the Danish population is employed in agriculture, and I have calculated that it is 34.800. I know it's between 90,000 and 110,000 with all the attendants. Is this such a way to downgrade agriculture, or is the rapporteur just wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505192346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505192348	Now it's a long way to where Mr. Orla Østerby is sitting, but what I mentioned was that 0.6%. the Danish people are farmers, and that means that the group which has the decision-making power in relation to those farms is, of course, those who have the influence on 62%. of our agricultural area. People are then employed to deal with the farms, and it is quite true that there are more employees than 35,000. The rapporteur would like to see what we are looking into with regard to future agriculture. Well, it's definitely an agricultural area that's smaller. We need more forest, we need to take out the low bottom areas, and we need more nature, so it is quite natural that we should reduce the agricultural area fairly quickly by 500,000 hectares. It is perhaps 20% that we need to reduce quite quickly, and we are prepared to go further.I have noted that there are other parties in the Danish Parliament that operate with the idea that we can reduce our agricultural area by one third. And then, of course, there will be fewer livestock. So that's what we're looking into.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505192454	Thank you. Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505192457	I am well aware and have heard in recent years that Enhedslisten will cut Danish agriculture all the way down to the root. This will certainly not succeed, and I also believe that the rapporteur can be confident in the knowledge that in future we will also have an agriculture at the level we have today in terms of production, but that Danish agriculture with the new technologies can well meet the target of a 70-percent reduction by 2030. This is also the case in the Conservative People's Party, and it will not be long before we come up with a proposal on this. For Danish agriculture has shown that they have constantly been able to develop, and it was also Danish agriculture and Denmark's Nature Conservation Association that together came up with a proposal to set up low bottom areas. So Danish agriculture is very much involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505192543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505192545	Well, that is nonsense when the rapporteur says that Enhedslisten will cut agriculture to the root. That's utter nonsense. We want to convert agriculture into a smaller area, and we want to turn it all into ecology, and if you look at the turnover of organic food in Denmark, then it is absolutely fantastic, and organic exports are also increasing. And then it is quite clear that some new products need to be created, and they are already being created, so we are going to switch to a more plant-based diet. So there is hope ahead for those in Danish agriculture who want to take part in the transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505192616	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505192642	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 7 May 2020. Before we start the debate, I should like to point out to those who have not tried this way yet that we in the Bureau have decided to change the way in which the debate is being conducted. The amendment means that all speeches, including ministerial speeches, rapporteur speeches and brief remarks, will be taken from the seats. In order to prepare the minutes, it is very important that you do not start talking until the red ring on your microphone lights up, and that you are also close to the microphone so that you can hear what is being said. As usual, you will be able to see your remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The first speaker is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who has the floor for an explanation of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505192746	Thank you for that, President. On behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, I would like to explain why we have raised this question in the Assembly. It is about the urgent need for further investment in Denmark's transport infrastructure, not least in the road network. Since 2010 there has been very good progress in the Danish economy. The Danish wheels started again after the crisis at that time. This is welcome, but it has also led to a sharp increase in traffic, because there is a close link between our economic growth and then traffic growth. The growth has not least been on the motorway network, where traffic from 2010 to 2019 increased by more than 35%. The Corona has recently led to a heavy temporary slowing down, but that does not change the fact that we have fallen behind with investment in our infrastructure. This has led to severe hardship, not least in the metropolitan area, in East Jutland and at Aalborg. In addition, there is the need for better road links to the main road network, so that all parts of the country will be on the wagon, if I may say so. Before the elections last year, the Social Democratic Party raised very high expectations for the implementation of transport investments. After the elections almost a year ago, virtually nothing has happened. On the contrary, the government, led by the Prime Minister, has announced the downgrading of the transport infrastructure. A lot of people around the country find that hard to understand. What's the explanation? Why was urgent investment in better roads buried when they were so important before the elections? It is hoped that this debate will give us an answer to this. It is also hoped that the debate here will be warming up for future traffic negotiations, on the one hand, a lightning investment package in the wake of the corona closure and, on the other hand, negotiations on a comprehensive coherent master plan for transport investments up to 2030. I look forward to a good and constructive debate on our important transport infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505193016	Thank you. And then we give the floor to the Minister of Transport for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505193023	Thank you for the floor. And I would like to thank the rapporteurs of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance for calling this question debate, which, by its very nature, as the rapporteur for the questioners indicated in his explanatory statement, has been given a different perspective since it was notified in January. That is why I would just like to acknowledge that the authors of this question also state in the explanatory statement that things have just developed and look different because the corona virus has put down Danish society and has hit our economy very hard. We in the government, together with all the parties in the Folketing, have acted decisively on this, and right now we are jointly holding hands under Danish economy and Danish jobs. I also hope that we in the Danish Parliament can agree that, whenever possible, economic activity needs to be restored and, of course, infrastructure investment plays a key role in this recovery. The rapporteur for the authors of this question referred to the fact that there is a very marked reduction in traffic volumes at this time. If we look at the general road network, we can be pleased that, fortunately, a large amount of goods are still being transported on the Danish roads. This is important because we must be able to ensure that goods can be delivered and that production facilities continue to operate. But it is also natural to note that, unfortunately, there is a marked decline in passenger traffic, because less mobility is also an expression of less turnover in society. If, however, you have to find a little positive at this time... after all... it's that things are actually improving. The latest figures made available to me are the general traffic figures from yesterday, which indicate that the corona has led to 18%. less road traffic. That was yesterday, Monday 4 May, and it has to be seen, given that the previous week, that is to say on Monday, was the fall of 25%, which means that we are gradually moving towards a normal situation. However, it does not change that when we are back in a normal situation, we will of course also experience the same challenges with tribulation as we have seen so far. In the past few days we have been delighted that there has been plenty of room on the roads, but that is an exception. The Corona crisis has not made a long-term and broad-based infrastructure plan less relevant; I would like to make that clear. The crisis has left its clear mark on the Danish roads and on the Danish railways. There is a very long distance between passengers on trains and traffic has been considerably lower than usual in recent months. If you have to find a light in the dark, which can be difficult • It is actually a little paradoxical as Minister of Transport to have to face a situation where you sometimes welcome the fact that there is a long way between passengers on the trains, since you usually hope for the opposite, it is that the air has become cleaner and that the CO2 emissions have fallen during the crisis. This is, in fact, positive, but it also only underlines that we have a CO2 challenge that comes with transport. We now see, as I have said, that traffic on the roads is beginning to return and that trains are almost back on track, although there is still a very long distance between passengers on the trains. It is a natural expression that we are slowly reopening society, and when society gets back into gear... excuse the play of words... we must expect that pressure will again come on our infrastructure, and we risk again experiencing congestion on the roads and in public traffic. In this way, of course, the climate impact of traffic and especially of road traffic will also become more marked. On the other hand, high mobility in Denmark remains a prerequisite for our society to continue to create wealth, and this requires investment. And that is why we still need a coherent, long-term plan for our investment in infrastructure, but it must be a plan that also has a clear green imprint. As can be seen from the paper of understanding between the government and its parliamentary basis, it is essential for the government to ensure investment in public transport and cycling, but these investments cannot stand alone and should not do so either. Most of the transport is on the roads today, and road traffic will also have to raise a significant proportion of the mobility needs in the future. The green cars of the future will not reduce the demand for roads either. However, while looking at car sales statistics, it is worth welcoming that both the actual number of electric cars and the plugin hybrid vehicles sold in the first part of 2020 and also the relative share are increasing. 8% The new sales of cars in Denmark have been electric cars and plugin hybrid cars, according to the figures provided by the Danish Elbil Alliance, calculated from the turn of the year until 12 April. This merely underlines the fact that there is also a conversion of the car park in relation to a more green mode of transport. It is for the government to create a coherent Denmark. It takes room for green cars • as I said, also those that have just been sold now • but it also requires a more offensive effort on buses, on trains and on bicycles. Things are connected. Our infrastructure planning must provide the basis for a coherent transport system in which modes of transport and mobility solutions interact. As a social democratic government, we are engaged in binding Denmark together. We believe that Denmark is too small a country for differences or distances to be too large. From the first day of the office, I have stressed that it is my ambition to reach a broad and long-term agreement on the investments in infrastructure in the years to come, and that remains the case. Investment in infrastructure requires a stable and long-term perspective, which is why it is absolutely crucial that we anchor investments in broad conciliation in the Folketing, so that we secure an agreement that can hold even if the power of government had to change at some point. Fortunately, we've done this before. With the broad settlement reached in 2009, we laid the lines for Danish transport policy for a period well ahead of time, in fact until this year comes to an end. The agreement has laid the foundations for both the construction and study of a number of infrastructure projects over the past decade. This has been crucial to the growth and development of our society. In the government, we are on a strong green mandate. Together with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, we have set an ambitious objective to reduce Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030. Of course, our ambitious objective also interferes with how we should conduct transport policy. The transport sector is currently responsible for approx. 28% This is why it is vital that the transport sector should also contribute if we are to achieve the 70% reduction target. Therefore, we must also see our infrastructure investments in the context of climate action, and this requires us to be longer in the work on the climate action plans before we can call for broad negotiations on a new infrastructure plan. If we are to achieve the goals of the climate action, close cooperation with the business community is also important, and therefore it is also positive that the climate partnerships have now submitted their recommendations to the government. We are now analysing them and they will be part of the work on our climate action plans. We do not need to make decisions blindly, and that is why we need to know more about how an infrastructure plan is turning green. We need to ensure that we use the investment funds effectively both in terms of mobility and in terms of reducing the climate footprint of traffic. For example, how do we get the most out of focusing on investment in public transport? And where does it make more sense to invest in road construction for the green cars of the future? We do not have all the answers now, but we will get it before the negotiations on long-term investment start. When we are longer in the work on the climate action plans, I look forward to discussing long-term investments with the parties of the Folketing. I have also noted with great satisfaction that several of you have already expressed the wish that we find each other in such a broad agreement. I think that is very constructive, and that is why, of course, I am very much looking forward to the constructive debate that the rapporteur for the questioners has put forward for this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194027	Thank you. For the time being, there is one brief comment, and it comes from Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194033	Thank you. [Sound emission]... the blue parties made before the elections, under the impression that the Social Democratic Party pursued withering policy on transport, we had to do it without the Social Democracy, was, of course, that we had to start already in 2021. And it was with the projects on extending the E45 around Århus, extending the E20 and E45 motorway crossing at Kolding, extending the E20 south on Odense, increasing capacity on Motorring 3, extending the Hillerød motorway between Motorring 3 and Motorring 4, increasing capacity on route 15 between Herning and Ringkøbing, extending the E55 between the South Motorway and Nykøbing Falster and extending the 40 route between Aalbæk and Skagen. These were the first projects in our big plan to take place in 2021. Social democracy went to the polls to do much the same as we blue parties, because that is what was said everywhere. Does the Minister of Transport have a plan to convene negotiations so that these projects can start in 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194140	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194142	In fact, I believe that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen heard my whole speech and therefore also knows the priority that lies. First of all, it is a question of dealing with the Corona situation and then dealing with the climate challenge. After all, there is a very broad majority in the Folketing, which actually takes this challenge very seriously, and then there is infrastructure and investment. Without being able to list all the projects, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen managed to squeeze into his one minute's speaking time, after all, there are several of those projects, for example. The extension of the E45, in several places, which, following EIA studies, will be reported on this year, thus giving us a basis for decision when we come to an infrastructure investment plan, which I have at least heard that a very broad majority of Parliament's parties will be interested in participating in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194242	Thank you. Then it is Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194246	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to sign for the Minister's speech, of course. However, I now have a few questions which I hope the Minister will share with us some good answers. I am thinking of the Minister saying that the ambition of the Minister and the government is to make a long-term agreement on infrastructure. It almost goes without saying that it will be long-term, because we will never start negotiating. So it's going to be very long-term, I'd say. I cannot really understand why one has the ambition to make it long-term in this way, but that is obviously what the government has chosen to do. The Minister is talking about something that the Minister thinks is positive, and that is that, despite the corona crisis, it can be seen that the sale of electric cars is underway. At least that is what the Minister said in his speech. I would just like to ask the Minister if he is aware of how many of the cars have then been registered and paid taxes etc., some have been ordered and ordered before the corona crisis. As I know, many of the cars being delivered are delivered with a certain amount of production delay, and that also means that they are obliged to take them when they have given an order for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194358	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194400	Yes, there is delivery time on both electric cars and plugin hybrid cars. That is absolutely correct. Since I own such a vehicle, I can only confirm that there is a certain delivery time. It must also be said that quite topically, with the rather limited need to drive, which at least parts of society have, for example. people who work from home, there are also quite a lot of people who do not have those cars out to roll, even if they may have had them delivered. What I note when I am just concerned about the fact that more electric cars and plugin hybrid vehicles are actually being sold is, of course, that it merely emphasises what I think is one of the things that has been considered by the questioners and also by Mr Tugendhat. Hans Kristian Skibby's side, namely that it is not the case that all the traffic on the roads is just black, but that there is also an increasing amount of green vehicles driving. It merely stresses the need not only to invest in trains, not only to invest in bicycles, but also to invest in green cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194514	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194516	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your reply. I would like to sign for the Minister's announcement that roads are not black, but that they are actually green when we consider future traffic. I would also like to sign up to the Minister's ambition that we will have a broad agreement that will last many years in the future. I also heard the Minister recognise the need for a lightning investment package in the wake of the corona. But there are really high expectations of these investments, that is, expectations from citizens commuting back and forth to work, who have heard something about everything we have to build here now, and there are expectations from companies, from mayors and from trade unions when they now read in the daily press about this. That is why I would like to ask the Minister if he could go a little further on when we are going to get these negotiations under way. Now it's almost a year since there's been a choice. So, can we get started before the summer break, or are we in the autumn of 2020, or maybe even in 2021, before it even gets started? I think a lot of people are interested in that we come a little closer. The second question I would like to ask is, of course, the relationship with climate action, which I fully agree with. Will the Minister acknowledge that we can actually negotiate in parallel on the climate action plan and then this green investment plan, because things are precisely linked?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194640	First of all, thank you for recognising the need for a broad investment plan. In relation to what the questioner is beginning to say about the possibility of economic recovery, some short efforts, I should like to refer to the Minister for Finance, who has said that we in the government are looking at the crisis in two stages. In the short run, it is about keeping hands under the economy and the Danish jobs, and as you then open up society again, there will also be a need for a recovery of economic activity, a recovery that creates activity and jobs, while at the same time making Denmark greener and addressing the climate challenges. How to organise such a process of economic recovery from an overall perspective is something that the government is looking at and that we will report at a later stage. However, it is clear that we recognise, of course, that there is a need for both climate investment and also a need for a long-term investment plan. As I said, we must return to what the timing will be like.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194755	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194759	I am, of course, pleased that the Minister for Transport attaches so much importance to the fact that the forthcoming negotiations on both an stimuli package, a climate action plan package and infrastructure negotiations should be very much about the green transformation. We fully agree with that. But the Minister for Transport also says that we need to know more and that it will come when we have the negotiations. Well, I think, of course you need to know more, you always need to know more. After all, we must always seek out the knowledge we can get, but do we not know enough to actually start the negotiations? We know, of course, that we need to restructure the car park, and we have taken the first small steps, and a transport commission has been set up to look at the financing requirements in this regard. But we do know that fossil cars are a mess, and we need to phase them out, preferably as soon as possible. We also know that public transport, particularly public rail traffic, is the most sustainable form of traffic that exists, even if it runs on diesel, and, of course, it will be even better when we get the new electric trains running on wind power. We are also going to change the way we transport ourselves. I don't think we're in any doubt about that either. In my opinion, car ownership does not fall completely, but I do believe that it will change a lot compared to who and how many cars will be owned. I also believe that fewer cars will be needed, and that must also be an effort, although I know very well that cars are the ultimate individualist ideal of freedom. I think that the objective of the 2009 conciliation, as the Minister of Transport mentioned, that public transport should bear the bulk of the increasing traffic that is coming, is worth holding onto.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505194957	I do not have such an ideological approach to private carism, I must admit. I recognise that there are parts of Denmark where there are very good opportunities to use public transport. In the Corona situation, there are not so many people who use public transport. This is an independent issue which we need to address and which I also believe all parties in the Folketing are prepared to find common solutions to when we are in the process of normalising society. But we must also recognise that there are people who live in places where it is hardly realistic to get a metro that goes a short distance from where you live. You do not have to live in a village in South Jutland, as I do, to acknowledge that there is therefore also a need to have a private car to ensure mobility. There are quite a number of Danes who depend on this, both in order to be able to go to work, but also in order to be able to ensure mobility in relation to their family at all. So of course we have to find the balance in these things, and after 2030 it should be the case that the cars that are sold are green.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195113	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195116	Thank you so much. In the Minister's speech, the Minister refers here with the consistency that it is important to ensure coherence, and I also believe that the Minister mentioned mobility in Denmark. We in the New Citizen are very much in agreement with the Minister on this. In fact, the heading of our transport policy is in general: traffic equality. But would the Minister not also acknowledge that it makes no sense whatsoever that in some parts of Denmark there is a user charge for infrastructure which binds the country together, such as the United Kingdom? on Crown Princess Mary's Bridge in Frederikssund, and that it should be removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195156	Then it is good that you have the free choice, so you can choose a free alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195202	Then it's Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195207	Thank you. Like the Enhedslisten, I would like to acknowledge the emphasis on the green transitions that we will be going through shortly, especially in the transport sector; I think it is incredibly refreshing to hear the Minister say so clearly. But I would really like to ask the Minister if we could perhaps have a look at the Train Fund DK. When the Minister stepped in, he was very quickly out in the press to say that we should get something done about the Train Fund DK and get it finished. It is clear that there are some loose ends compared to this with the Train Fund DK, but I just don't really think so much has happened since. After all, the Danish Railway Fund is very, very important for our investment in public transport, which is a completely vital part of the green transition in the transport sector. There are several parts of the Train Fund DK which can be started very quickly. One of the things you can do right away, if you like, according to the Ministry, in which the minister himself is sitting, is after all. the track across West Funen. So I should like to hear from the Minister whether he has a plan to implement the Train Fund DK in the near future and when it will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195318	First of all, allow me to welcome the fact that we have jointly ensured that the track over West Funen has been set in motion with the financial law agreement. For indeed we are in the process of a huge investment project in the railway, which for many different reasons has been delayed by electrification, signal systems, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195437	Thank you. Then it's Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195442	Thank you very much, sir. President. A great deal has already been said, and I recognise the Minister's great knowledge, among other things. in the field of fossil-free cars. This makes me very, very happy, and I am also pleased to hear that the Minister has also said that roads are not necessarily black, but that they will also be green in the future. What is my question is whether, in the light of hindsight or in the inexorably clear light of the rear-view mirror, the Minister thinks it wise that the government, together with its support parties and the blue parties, has not yet presented a comprehensive infrastructure plan. We are now in a crisis in which investment and employment are very much needed over a very, very short time frame, so can the Minister try to respond a little to how and how he sees the need to bring this forward so that we can get started quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195538-2	I did a little bit about that for Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, that is to say the very thing about the handling of the corona challenge having to be taken in two tempos. First of all, we must ensure that we hold hands under Danish economy, jobs, etc. And then there will be a recovery of the Danish economy. One can always discuss when things should happen, give style marks and everything else, and one might ask whether the previous government should have made broader agreements so that it did not all fall on the ground when the elections were held and there was no longer a majority in favour of it. All these things we can spend a really long time discussing. I would actually rather note that infrastructure has the potential to be one of several instruments that can be used in relation to economic challenges, for recovery, etc., as the questioner also mentioned, but at the same time also has the potential to meet the second major challenge, our climate. As far as the climate challenge is concerned, we are also in a joint boat, which is why I also welcome the fact that the questioner, for example, is here. mention the green cars. In fact, we have already agreed to translate additional infrastructure into precisely that in order to push the green transition forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195704	Thank you. It was then the round of the Minister's reply and the rapporteurs' access to a brief comment. We have finished that, and we are now going to the round of negotiations, and it is according to the general rules, with usually two brief comments. The first one we are giving the floor to is the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mr Beazley. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505195725	Thank you for that, President. Our transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for a highly mobile, coherent and prosperous Denmark. Wise investment in infrastructure contributes decisively to making Denmark richer. An old Chinese proverb says, "If you want to be rich, build a way." And that is as true as it has been said. For roads, railways and cycle paths across the country are figuratively the veins that keep the Danish organism alive. The infrastructure must allow us to get to and from work safely, as well as to get around in leisure time, and the infrastructure is a vital condition for our producing companies to be able to transport their raw materials and finished products efficiently, and these are the ones we basically live on all together. Therefore, there is a close link between economic growth and a well-functioning transport infrastructure. In 2009, a broad political agreement was reached on investment in infrastructure up to 2020; a comprehensive agreement of some 95 billion. kr., of which the vast majority went to the railway. That is why Banedanmark is very busy at the moment. They are, in fact, under pressure, as the Minister also indicated, whereas the Road Directorate has virtually shot tame, and that is a paradox when you consider that 90%. of the traffic work actually takes place on the roads. But back to the 2009 agreement. Now we are here by 2020, and that is why it is high time we were actually in the twelfth hour in terms of getting an agreement going in the next decade. Overall, there is an urgent need for a broad transport agreement. Already more than a year ago in March 2019, the former VLAK government and Dansk Folkeparti landed a comprehensive traffic agreement to 112 billion. kr. in investments. Unfortunately, this agreement was cancelled after the June 2019 elections by the new Social Democratic government due to shifts in the political majority. However, this does not change the need for us to negotiate as soon as possible and the country to have a new agreement reaching 2030. Here the Left sees a need for us to place clear emphasis on implementing necessary road projects across the country this time. The aim is to solve the congestion problems that cost society at least 24 billion. kr. in losses every year; but the aim is also to get all parts of the country better connected to the overall road network so as to ensure the basis for job creation and growth in all parts of our country. It requires better roads and it is urgent to get started. But what did the government do and what does it do? Yes, before the elections we had at least three things. Firstly, in early 2019, the Social Democratic Party launched a comprehensive road document which mentioned virtually all possible road projects in Denmark, including, for example: also the bypass of Mariager. Secondly, the Social Democratic Party praised the Blue Transport Agreement of March 2019 in high notes. We could easily see ourselves in that agreement, it was said, and that is very sensible. Thirdly, in the election campaign in May-June last year, the Social Democratic Party ran a high profile of promising the early realisation of a large number of concrete road projects across the country. Yes, you could just read the long list in the aforementioned S-traffic presentations, which were used diligently by the Social Democratic candidates. But what about after the election? There were, after all, enormous expectations of the social democracy surrounding the infrastructure. There were expectations that the new government invited to traffic negotiations as early as autumn 2019 • it didn't happen. Instead, at the beginning of 2020, we could see a Prime Minister who announced clearly that the traffic infrastructure was now downgraded. At the same time, the government made it clear that traffic negotiations could not take place until 2021 or even 2022. Thanks for the coffee. It was a rather different message than the one we heard before the election. Since then, the corona crisis hit Denmark in early March. This crisis has not, of course, reduced the need for transport investment; on the contrary, there are strong arguments that we will soon get the country an agreement to advance investments that can be carried out as early as autumn 2020 in the nature of smaller projects. It is also part of history that Danish companies in the construction industry, especially the road construction industry, have almost empty order books and that they have already, before several unions, clearly pointed to this problem, because it simply does not make sense when we lack the better roads. What about the green switch? some will ask. Do we not have to wait for a climate action plan? No, no and no! Traffic investment and the climate action plan can be negotiated at the same time with great benefit. In this context, I would remind you that roads are not black; they are green, on the other hand, because the cars of the future will drive fossil-free. That is why we must stop the artificial division between roads on the one hand and railways on the other. To sum up, I am sorry to say that the government has been condemned to slow down in the field of transport infrastructure. Nice words have not been followed up by action, and I sincerely hope that today's debate will help us to agree to get traffic negotiations going as quickly as possible, including investment in roads, lanes, cycle paths, noise reduction and other measures to support the green transport of the future. Against this background, with the President's permission on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes the Prime Minister's announcement that investment in transport infrastructure is not a priority task, even though the Social Democracy in the run-up to the elections in 2019 advocated large-scale transport investments. The government's notification should be seen in the light of the annual socio-economic congestion loss of 24 billion. kr. and the consequent need for investment with gravity on the road network as well as the need to ensure a coherent Denmark in better balance. The negotiations on traffic investment can be carried out in parallel with negotiations on a climate action plan including green transport. It is a prerequisite that future vehicles will run fossil-free, so investment in the road network supports the conversion to green transport. The Danish Parliament urges the government to invite early negotiations for an accelerated lightning investment package that helps to stimulate Danish economy after the corona closure. In addition, the government is encouraged to invite negotiations on a master plan for transport investments up to 2030. V 65)
ParlaMint-DK_20200505200438	Thank you. The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are, for the time being, two comments which have been made briefly, and the first is that of Mr Beazley. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505200452	I would say that in this way I share the impatience of starting these infrastructure negotiations. That is what we have expressed, and we were also a little disappointed that they were postponed a little further into the future. On the other hand, we must also say that, first of all, it must be done wisely, and there are, of course, some things that need to be taken into account, and secondly, whether we like it or not, we are also affected by this corona crisis. However, it is true that this does not reduce the need for infrastructure investment. I do not agree with the priority given to it, Mr President. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says, and which lies in the road agreement that I call it the blue block, when it had government power, adopted. It does not solve the problems of tribulation. Believing that one can build oneself out of tribulation by just building more roads or extending existing roads, especially motorways, is hopeless. It has been for many years. And at least most traffic scientists say that's not the way to do it. You have to bet differently and you have to bet on public transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505200603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505200605	I'm gonna start by signing up to Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested for an unexpected support, because I am glad that Enhedslisten shares our impatience to get started. So we can agree on that. The fact is that we all know that this is the course of negotiations, especially on a traffic agreement that hopefully lands on the right side of 100 billion. kr., takes a long time. There are a great many things that need to be clarified, many questions that need to be asked, etc., so that such a course of negotiations takes many weeks. It speaks of getting started. Then it's clear that the water divides. The Enhedslisten does not like roads and may even have been instrumental in not saying a word about roads in the so-called understanding paper, which must surprise many when 90 per cent. of the traffic work is carried out on roads, including half of the public transport, namely the buses. That is why we have to note that there is a disagreement between the Enhedslisten and the Left. We recognise the need for public transport, including green buses and well-functioning railways on existing rails. Then we have to build new railways on West Funen, we also agree on that, and then we need a stretch down in South Jutland between Padborg and Tinglev. So we can meet on some things, but basically we probably have some different priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505200715	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505200718	Some of the rail projects that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen mentions, of course, we agree entirely, but we disagree with the main priority that we want to focus on car transport. It is true that it represents the vast majority of all passenger transport work in Denmark today. I even think it is over 90%, but at least 90%. That is absolutely correct, but that is also what is wrong, and that is what we need to change. So we have to find some way to restrict car traffic. It creates tribulation, it fills our cities, it destroys many of our cities. Take this town with all the lovely city rooms that are filled with cars everywhere. So we have to change that, and we have to do so in the infrastructure negotiations we need to have and with the investments to be agreed there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505200807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505200809	I am doing my best, but I simply find it difficult to understand Enhedslisten's resistance to cars, especially when we have the premise that the cars of the future must be green and, to that extent, very silent compared to today. There's no noise and smoke from them. So I find it hard to understand, and you can at least say with a smile on your lip that here under the corona we have seen the strength of the car. I think that a lot of people have been happy to sit in a car free of infection rather than to sit close to someone in public traffic. That is not a proper argument, I know, and it was said with a smile on its face. But, of course, we need both public transport and cars, and I think that we should leave it to the many Danes who are happy with their small car, and we must then set up our infrastructure and then ensure that there is an attractive collective traffic offer, including buses, which, of course, runs on asphalt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505200851	Thank you. Then I have to say that the screen has become black up here by me, and then it is difficult to keep track of the rapporteur's line, but when I look at the other screen, I see that there is one inscribed right now, and that is Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. So we're trying to keep going, hoping I'll get a full screen again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505200907	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on where Mr. Henning Hyllested escaped. Left says that cars and roads are also green. I'm having a little trouble following that. I can easily see that the cars of the future are green so far we can easily walk along. But that cars and roads are green is happy news for me. - Sir... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, following on from that statement, perhaps say something about when the last diesel car and petrol car have been scrapped and when we only have zero-emission vehicles on the roads? Because it is in SF's optics where cars and roads are green and, as I understand the industry, a little time goes by before we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505201001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505201003	Yes, and it is also going to be some time before we build the infrastructure we are about to negotiate; that is, it is for the next ten-year period, so we are sort of beyond 2030, where we are going to start using the roads we are talking about seriously here, at least some of them. But I cannot tell you when the last fossil-powered car has been phased out. That is, of course, what we are about to discuss in the context of the climate action plan. We look forward to that, and we hope to have a broad agreement on it. After all, there is no doubt that we must create clear incentives to buy green when buying in cars, and at some point in 2050 we are agreed that we must have a fossil-free society. But I don't think the diesel car's gonna go away. There's just something else in the tank. Many people feel this way about judging the diesel car out; in other words, with diesel as a propellant, but the technology itself, which is in a diesel car which is extremely efficient, is good if something green comes into the tank. And I'm sure that does, among other things. with what's called power-to-x, that's electrofuel, that we can do using offshore wind power. There are some great perspectives in that. And that means suddenly that there are huge numbers of diesel cars, diesel buses and diesel trucks at the time that we can get to drive completely green. This does not change the fact that we will also have a great many electric cars, hydrogen cars and other technologies. But to the point of simply saying that diesel cars have to be discarded, I would say: well, it has to be diesel fuel; it has to go, but there has to be something green in the tank, just as there has to be something green in the tank on the aircraft, the ships and everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505201127	Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505201130	Okay, but as I understand the rapporteur of the Left now here, we can agree that it is by no means all cars today that are green. This is only something that the rapporteur of the Left sees in the future. And that brings me a little to my next question, because it doesn't look like the Left to make uncertain investments, and since we don't know when all the cars are zero-emission cars, that is when they're all green, wasn't it an idea to invest in public transport, in cycling, in these transport solutions that we know are green, as we know how to make green and which we know what it costs to make green? I'm thinking that's a rock-proof investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505201208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505201210	Well, that's where we can meet. We must invest massively in cycling. This is very good for public health and for the environment, so we will certainly meet there. And in the case of uncertain investments, we can do something about it. Now we are about to start working on climate action plans, and the SF also has to be around the table. And there it is up to us to do something about the green transition. So I just don't buy the one saying that uh, the roads are black, for the buses, cars and trucks of the future are going to run on something green. That's what we're all going for. Then why do we have to talk about roads being black? And for that matter, one cannot just say that the train operation is just green at the moment. So we have a lot of diesel trains that are still running away, and unfortunately they are not exactly phased out the day after tomorrow. So it's also gonna be a while before we're fully electrified and green on that front.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505201257	Thank you. Then, for the sake of good order, I ask if there are any more who wish to speak. I'm out of sign-ins in this round. All right, that round's over. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Thomas Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505201314	For the Social Democratic Party, it is crucial that Denmark gets out safely and safely on the other side of the corona crisis. We must ensure this by addressing the challenges of the crisis in the right order. It is clear that when we can see the scale of the crisis, there will be a need to stimulate the economy so that we relaunch the Danish economy again, but it must be done in a sound way through secure investments, where particularly green investments must play a role. Until now, the Government and the Danish Parliament have taken many initiatives to keep their hands on Danish companies and jobs. It has been crucial to mitigate the worst consequences of the corona crisis, but the crisis is not over yet, and we can find ourselves in a completely different situation in just one month's time than we are today, and that is why we need to keep our eyes on the ball. Right now, the most important thing is for Denmark to be reopened in a sound way, ensuring that we can return to everyday life without the risk of having to take a step back again. Social democracy believes that there will be a need for public investment to restart the economy. Such investments will be based on a large number of factors, including the economic consequences of the corona crisis, and we are not fully aware of them yet. It is important that, especially at this time, we do not take any hasty decisions, but rather take an overview and then decide on the investments to be made. I also assume that my fellow transport rapporteurs in this Chamber agree that we should not take any hasty decisions when it comes to Denmark's future infrastructure. After all, investment in infrastructure plays an important role in considering what initiatives should be taken to boost the economy. The same goes for the common climate objective, which has been set by a broad majority in the Folketing. The two things must go hand in hand. It is essential that the future investment plan, among other things: Priority is given to public transport, rail investment and cycling. In addition, it is well known that many people experience tribulation on the roads. This is a problem for the individual citizen and for growth. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party also believe that the future infrastructure plan should address the congestion on the Danish roads. There are parts of the country where major cities are not properly connected to the motorway network or on the main road network, and therefore there is also a need to see how to solve those problems. Indeed, it is all areas that are important to improve the infrastructure in Denmark, to ensure the green transition and, at the same time, to help boost the economy. Let me then reveal some of what I hope can be part of a future green investment plan for infrastructure. It is not a concrete road or rail or a bicycle path, but a new working method for us transport policyers, which will mean that we or our successors as transport rapporteurs will not be standing in this Chamber in ten years' time and discussing the timing of an infrastructure agreement. Our common learning of the stop-go policy that we are in here and now, because under the previous government there was no desire for a broad agreement, we can resolve by doing as the Norwegians do. Every three or four years we should agree on infrastructure investment, which will be 10-12 years in the future, a rolling contract model which will ensure that there is constant certainty among citizens and businesses, municipalities and regions, so that everyone knows what social investment is on the way and which can be taken into account in other planning. It will also have the beneficial effect on our construction companies that they can plan bids, recruitment strategies and investments in a way that will ensure an even more rational use of our infrastructure funds in the future. It will be good for companies and it will be good for society. Finally, I would like to say that the Social Democrats want a broad and well-worked agreement for future transport investments. Here, the consequences of the Corona crisis and the need for green investment are particularly important. Many good fellow transport rapporteurs certainly have good ideas and important inputs for a future plan, and I would therefore call for everyone to bring them to the negotiating table. I look forward to discussing these investments when we know the precise economic and employment consequences of the corona crisis. On the basis of this, I would like to conclude by presenting on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the outbreak of the Corona virus poses an extraordinary challenge for the Danish economy and employment. When possible, economic activity will need to be restored. The Danish Parliament notes that infrastructure investments can contribute to the recovery of Danish economy and thus also to the prospects for Danish employment, growth and welfare. A broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties have set an ambitious objective to reduce Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030. As part of a green mobility plan, climate and environmental considerations can therefore also be very much part of a future infrastructure plan. This requires, among other things, that: investments in public transport, including rail, in accordance with the agreement on the Railway Fund, and in cycling. The Danish Parliament notes that a process is under way in relation to the climate action plans and calls for future negotiations on a long-term infrastructure plan up to 2030 to be coordinated accordingly. • V 66).
ParlaMint-DK_20200505201851	Thank you. The proposed adoption will now also be included in the further negotiations. Then there are requests for short remarks, and the first is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505201903	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Jensen says that we should not have a stop-go policy for investment in infrastructure, and I fully agree with that. Right now, we've got a stop, and we've got that, thanks to mr. Thomas Jensen's government. An agreement was made in 2009 on what to do in the period up to 2020, and therefore there should now have been negotiations on what to do from 2021 onwards. Those negotiations have not been held, not by this government at least. The former bourgeois government held them and made a very good plan together with the Danish People's Party, which the Social Democratic Party said the Social Democracy would also implement. But as soon as the elections were over, the Social Democrats would not do so anyway, and the Social Democrats and the government have not called for new negotiations for any adjustments to that plan. What is the explanation for this? After all, these are not climate action plans, because they are about which cars to drive on the roads; they are not about climate policy with congestion on the roads. We have congestion on the roads now, and it must go, no matter what climate policy you want to pursue. What concerns the climate is which cars should drive on the roads, and they should be green, yes, thank you. But we still need some roads for them, so what is the excuse for the stopping policy that this government is pursuing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202022	There's no excuse on my part for what it looks like right now. I think the rapporteur should go to the bathroom out here and look in the mirror, because that was Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, who was Minister of Transport, when it was decided to make a very, very narrow settlement, a narrow settlement that did not go over the middle, and that means that when the voters had spoken and there was no majority behind the parties, that agreement also fell. We now have a new majority in which, on the part of the Social Democrats, the government will reach the middle to provide broad support for future investments in the Danish infrastructure. It is an important piece of work in which we also have to think about the whole green transition, so that we make sure that the whole transport sector also contributes to reducing our CO2 by 2030. It is, after all, a new approach that has come, it is not something that the previous government envisaged in its Blue Infrastructure Plan, and that is why I just think that the rapporteur should recognise that there has been a parliamentary election, that the people have put together a new Parliament and that we now have to draw up an infrastructure plan together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202131	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202134	However, in relation to what the electorate was told in the election campaign, there was a very, very broad majority in favour of implementing the projects contained in the Blue Investment Plan. For the Social Democrats also said in the election campaign that the Social Democrats would implement those projects. After all, it is the Social Democratic Party which has changed its mind and failed the electorate that was promised an investment plan similar to that made by the blue parties. So it is not true that the parliamentary elections decided that the people did not want the investment plan; it is the Social Democrats who have changed their minds. And I still want to know why climate policy needs to be pursued with congestion on the roads. Why is climate policy a reason why we should not implement the plan on which the blue parties went to the polls and which the Social Democrats said the Social Democrats would also implement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202218	Social democracy has not changed its attitude. The Social Democratic Party put forward a proposal with a catalogue of road projects that we would like to negotiate with the previous government, but it was the case that the invitation to the debate suddenly ceased to apply and then we could not negotiate further. But it was simply a catalogue that should not exclude that we could be involved in some negotiations on the future infrastructure in Denmark. And no, the Social Democrats have not changed their minds either. I have noted that the Prime Minister has said that the Blue Plan contained many sensible projects, and that is also in the spirit in which I agree with a forthcoming debate. There are certainly some projects, many projects, in the Blue Agreement that must be implemented. What we will then have to discuss is how we might also improve some of them and see them in the green light, so that we ensure that it is also something that contributes to reducing CO2 We should probably also discuss such a thing with what the order should be, what is the wisest thing to do here and now on the short track, and what might take 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 years into the future. So there is plenty to negotiate, and I look forward to some good, constructive negotiations, including with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202326	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202329	Thank you. I'd like to sign for mr. Thomas Jensen's outstretched hand in making a broad deal. I also like the talk that we have to move to rolling planning, because even if we look at 10-12 years ahead, there is a lot of new technology going on all the time, so it seems quite reasonable. On the other hand, I am a little sad that it is a little difficult for the Social Democrats to take the floor in their mouths, and I suspect that it is in order not to bother their friends in the corner too much, because there is nothing very clear about the road. A great deal is being said about cycling and public transport, and that is also fine, which is also needed, but we therefore need some clarity. On the other hand, the proposal used the word 'Togfonden DK' to be adopted, and I would like to ask what is meant by it. For the Train Fund DK's phase one is really good: electrification of the railway, West Funen railways and the things that the rest of us also support. But the Togfonden DK's second phase is characterised by the fact that these are projects that are not needed, namely a new railway down through East Jutland and a new railway bridge over Vejle Fjord, and in return they are completely unfinanced. So what is Social Democracy thinking about when you talk about the Train Fund DK? And if you think of phase two, where will that money come from, because there's a big black hole?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202453	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen to also think about making a rolling planning of our infrastructure investments in the future. We were together on a study trip in Norway, where we saw how the Norwegians have got really, very much out of it, and that is clearly something that could also be beneficial for us to do in Denmark. In view of the fact that in our proposal for adoption we also include the Togfonden DK, I am happy to agree that we were one of the parties involved in adopting the Togfonden DK. I myself was a tax rapporteur at the time when we were also having to find the money. However, oil prices tend to fluctuate, and that is where we have to get the money for it. So, of course, that is something that we must also consider when we have to negotiate and we have to look at public transport and the railway fund agreement, and we must of course look at where we stand in terms of funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202547	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202551	Thanks for that opening. That sounds good, because some of the things that prevented us from getting the broad agreement last year were, among other things, that the Train Fund DK was held very firmly as it was cemented at the time. I would also like to point out that a new dimension has come into this because there is actually a fairly broad political support for a fixed link across the Kattegat, and that is a completely new dimension. If it turns out that it can be built either as a pure road link or with public transport too, for example. with lightning buses running across the electricity and rail lines, if the economy is sufficient, so what does the Social Democracy say to a fixed Kattegat connection in the context of the Train Fund DK's phase two? What is the context there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202634	Now I am not going to stand here and take a stand on specific projects in the Parliamentary Chamber today, but I would like to follow up on the thinking which actually lies behind Mr Tugendhat's report. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's question. Because if you have a project and there is another project on the field, what is the interaction between them, both in terms of traffic and socio-economic terms? And there are several projects that we must also take under the carpet. Well, there's a new motorway in Mid Jutland, there's an Kattegat connection, there's a train fund in East Jutland. After all, these are things that we are using constructive and thorough negotiations on where we can sit and weigh down what the consequences are if we go one way and make a line that lies there. That's where it's supposed to be. It should not be the case that we should just tell the citizens that now we are realising all these three projects; then we cannot afford to do anything in North Jutland, then we cannot afford to do anything in South Denmark, and then we cannot afford to do anything at Zealand or in the capital. So that is what we need to use constructive negotiations, namely to keep things against each other and then to make the best decisions for the next 10-12 years of investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202733	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202737	I agree that we need to see things in a context. I have to say that we have had three or four, perhaps five decades, when carism has been waged fairly unilaterally, and this has led to the decline of the Danish railway and has not been developed at all in line with what they have developed and invested massively in in our neighbouring Sweden and Norway for that matter and Germany and elsewhere in Europe. I think it sounds interesting with that new working method and rolling planning, but I can't quite figure out what's meant, and I hope that we can drill it along the way. I don't quite see the difference between long-term planning and rolling planning, but okay, if new things come in, you can take it up. It's okay. The reason I actually took the floor was to ask what status the Social Democratic Investment Plan, or what to call it, from January 2019 has. It came just before the bourgeois blue plan. Sir. Thomas Jensen said it was such a catalogue, and that is fine, and next to it you have the Togfonden DK, which is a concrete and at least 10-year investment plan. So I would like to know what is the status of the two projects set against each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505202859	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. There are, in fact, two questions here. The first concerns what I am proposing that we should try to see whether we cannot agree to make more rolling planning of our infrastructure investment agreements. It is the case that, if we now sit down and negotiate here and agree on a plan that will cover 10 years in the future, and we then meet again in 3-4 years, then again look 10 years ahead. Because it may well be that some of the projects that we think we will have to implement in eight years' time have suddenly become much more topical and perhaps need to be brought forward, and there may be new challenges with congestion and various other things on the ground, which then also need to be planned out in time. So it is simply for us to keep thinking 10, 12 years forward and not to have such breaks where we do not get so much new stuff going. Then there is the question about the Social Democracy paper from 2019. This came very funny on the 10th anniversary of the 2009 agreement, and it was a presentation in which we presented many projects that we were prepared to go in and negotiate. It was not the case that everyone could be realised, nor were they in the Blue Plan, but it was the case that we had a basis for negotiation and that we would not rule out the possibility of being able to enter into a broad infrastructure agreement in advance. Unfortunately, however, we got out of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203022	Sir. Henning Hylllested? Apostates. Then it's Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203027	Thank you. I would like to try again because I do not think the Minister really answered the question the first time I asked it, but it may be that the rapporteur can be helpful. When the government stepped in, the Minister of Transport said that he would launch the Train Fund DK and have it negotiated. He said it in July at DR News, and he said it so that, as to how things should be done exactly in the last detail, of course it must be up to the parties that are part of the conciliation circle behind the Train Fund DK, but that at least something had to be done to complete it here. And we very much welcomed that in the SF. The train fund DK is • it's not a secret • much SF's heart child. So I would like to hear again: when do you think that we can start the Train Fund DK? For what remains, what is missing, are some incredibly vital parts of the green transition and investment in the public transport sector in Denmark. Does the government have any idea when to negotiate the Danish Railway Fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203133	Thank you for the question. As I heard both the Minister's speech and as I myself have tried to say in my speech, the challenge right now is to get an overview of the economic consequences and the employment consequences of the crisis we are facing right now, and then it is to get a handle on the whole climate action plan area. Then what we can really start to look at is what we can do in the area of infrastructure, which can also help to improve the climate, and that is where we must at some point turn the Togfonden DK, and it is, of course, as it is raised from the other side of the House, also relevant to look at it. At the time, we have agreed on funding which is lagging a little behind. So what do we do? I am not standing here today and deciding what we should do then. We should do that in a debate. But we should at least now, when that funding is not the source we thought it was, decide what we should do. These are, of course, decisions that we must try to take in a debate, and I cannot say exactly when and how, but we must at least do so in the order in which we have an overview of the economy and an overview of what to do with climate action plans, so that it can also play a part in infrastructure investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203243	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203247	Thank you. I think that was very educationally said, and we in the SF are in complete agreement that there are some loose ends in the Togfonden DK which must be discussed. We came, among other things. A year ago, with our green investment plan, where the Togfonden DK is being financed, both phase 1 and phase 2, and I think that we are ready to play with that when the government considers it necessary. In any case, we would very much like to see the Danish Railway Fund negotiated. Because, as we see it, it is good to have completed and tied loops on the projects that we have before we have to enter a new infrastructure debate and hopefully agree more and better, bigger and greener investments in the transport sector, especially in public transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203339	Thank you. I am therefore looking forward to a debate in which SF carries in some funding proposals. Because that's what's needed when you're going to spend some money, that's why you bring your wallet too. So it's always positive. So I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203348	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203355	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Jensen gave a rather fine rapporteur speech, I think, and there were also some suggestions for some ideas. However, I also noted that the rapporteur mentioned that it is important to have an eye on the ball in relation to infrastructure agreements. There it is, of course, that you can get a little confused about how many balls you have to keep an eye on, at least if it is social democratic balls. Because if you look at the infrastructure plan that the Social Democrats themselves offered with very early in 2019, it contained an incredible number of different elements, which are also funny enough some of the same as the Blue Agreement contains. But if you start going through it like that with a closet, there are just a lot of things. That is why I am surprised today, when we are focusing on the many sub-proposals contained in the Socialists' own proposals for infrastructure, that, after a year of government power, we have not come so far at all that we believe that we should call for negotiations on some of the quite obviously good investments which also lie in the proposal made by the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203516	Thank you. I would like to repeat that the presentation we presented in January 2019 was, of course, a negotiating paper in which we liked to put forward a catalogue of projects that we knew were in play among the parties of the Folketing. It was to show our willingness to negotiate because we knew that the Danish People's Party wanted something, the Liberal Alliance wanted something, the Left, the Conservative. So we were at least open to the blue block, and then we were also hoping that we could be part of a final agreement. I'm afraid we didn't. But I see a great coincidence or a common quantity between the catalogue we presented and the blue agreement that was made. That is why I think it should also be noted that the Prime Minister has noted that there were many sensible proposals in the Blue Investment Plan. That is why I also feel that when we are going to negotiate, I think that there will still be a great deal of common ground. At least that's my hope. If it were to look very different, we'd probably go very wrong in the city, I guess. So I look forward to having some good, constructive negotiations where both the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party can meet some of the wishes and also many other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203632	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203634	Now we have waited three months for this question debate, I think. However, I was not aware that we had a fisheries policy debate. At least that is how I see it when I hear that reply from Mr. Thomas Jensen. It's fisheries policy we're in, sir. Thomas Jensen, when you start to say that this is just a small negotiation paper from the Socialists and that you then hope that some things will come from the other parties as well. No, the fact is that what came out in January 2019 was a comprehensive list of everything that the Social Democrats wanted to go to the polls on. Now we have won the elections and congratulations, but then it is not fair that we should begin to downgrade the ability and desire to call for some negotiations. That is where the chain completely falls off and where the Socialist Group is all about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203723	Thank you. I have a weakness for sir. Hans Kristian Skibby's humorous comments, but I just have to say that fisheries policy is not an area that I have ever worked with here in the Folketing. No, just to conclude briefly: back then we laid out a broad palette with some things we wanted to negotiate then, and we look forward to starting some negotiations when we have an overview of the Danish economy and an overview of the climate. And it is also my hope that the Danish People's Party is willing to negotiate and that we can do a lot of good projects together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203757	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203802	Thank you so much. It's kind of funny for me to hear this debate, one of which is accusing one of something and the other is accusing the other of something. The fact is that the Social Democracy and the Blue Block actually agree on where to focus when making these infrastructure investments. I just think that's a little bit striking. I would just like to hear, because now there has been a lot of talk about the hot porridge and used a lot of such miserable excuses for not calling, about something with climate and because one thing and the other: if the Social Democrats really think this is an important area, when are you going to call for negotiations, so that we will have a long-term, broad agreement to ensure a good, solid infrastructure in Denmark, an expansion of it, which can precisely ensure the cohesion and the growth and prosperity that we also want out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505203905	Don't put me on the exact percentage, but I think it's about 28% that the transport sector is contributing to the CO2 emissions in Denmark. That is why I think that, and I wrote it down here, when Mrs Mette Thiesen talks about bad excuses about the climate, it shows a little about where the Party of New Citizens is when it comes to our climate and reducing CO2 emissions. That is fair enough if New Citizens feel that way, but for the government and, I sense, also for a large majority in this Parliament, it is quite important that we also include the climate impression from the transport sector in negotiating infrastructure investment plans. It does not matter what we do in those negotiations, in relation to whether we can achieve the 70-percent target of reducing CO2 emissions by 2030. So I hope that new citizens have also realised that it would be a good idea to think about the climate when it comes to agreeing on investment in infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204007	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204009	I can say very clearly that New Citizens will not buy into this 70-percent target at any time. We haven't done it from the start, and we're not going to do it now either. But even if you think climate into this, and even if you think climate into which we are actually writing in our proposal for adoption as well as making the infrastructure investments, I simply cannot understand why it should be an excuse for not getting started. After all, we have a lot of knowledge in this area. For example: As far as the road network is concerned, we can agree very quickly that, in relation to the road network that is being built now, it is the transport that is going to take place on the road network that is becoming increasingly green. So I just can't see why you can't just start building and negotiating to get these roads done now... so why you have to slow it down this way on the grounds that you have to make some extraordinary calculations about climate footprints etc. It can easily be done in parallel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204108	I am beginning to wonder whether New Citizens are actually included in the blue proposal for adoption, but Mrs Mette Thiesen is, however, the author of it, and there is also talk of green things in that proposal for adoption. However, in order to answer the question specifically, I would like to say that when we are going to negotiate, we probably have a certain bag of money that we can spend, and there is also a substantial balance of whether we use it on roads, on rails, on bicycle paths around the kingdom, and where we can see that we can get the most CO2 reduction on the short and medium track. I think that is quite essential in terms of making the right decisions in an infrastructure investment plan. So that is at least one of the things I hope we can bring to the table so that, on an enlightened basis, we know what we are doing and what consequences it has for the climate when we hope to reach such an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204206	Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204212	Thank you very much, sir. President. I was pleased to note that the Social Democrat rapporteur was again out to say that we need to have broad and long-term ideas in relation to our infrastructure plan. It was, of course, the same as the Minister once said in the autumn when they poured the blue plan completely off the board, which I welcome, because it makes really, really good sense, in that just exactly infrastructure may at times be a little more important than red and blue politics. And I'm glad. I am also pleased that the rapporteur recognised Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's question about what happens when you start one project, happens to another. And I wonder whether it would not make sense for the government to put a brake on phase 2 of the Danish Railway Fund now, not to offer buying-in places where bridges are to be crossed, etc., to pause it until we reach a broad consensus on how to proceed from here, including with Phase 2 of the Train Fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204321	Thank you, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. I think it is important that, as I have said before, we get an overview and do things in the right order. And there are none of the areas that we have rushed into. I don't think it's something we can be blamed for today from the blue side. However, we will make every effort to do so in the right way, by having fully informed about the other effects it has. In that process, I look forward to having some good negotiations where the goal is for us to get this broad majority. The signals I hear from the Conservative People's Party seem super positive to me, and I also hope that we can shake hands with them in a negotiating room.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204412	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204414	But would the rapporteur not like me to ask once again whether it is going to work a little further to put a brake on the expropriation models that lie in relation to Phase 2 of the Togfonden DK so that things will sort out until we can move on together?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204431	I mean, I have no need to stand here in the Chamber and promise that we are slowing them down here and now, i.e. per. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 October 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Union (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). It has to be seen in the context of what other things are being carried in when we are going to negotiate what we are going to do. So it must be done in the right order and with a proper manner, as the questioner himself points out. And I am sure that we will do that when we get some good calculations, both from the climate area and from transport, and take them into account when we look at what we should do in the area of trains, what we should do in the area of road, in the area of bicycles. Then I am sure that we will have an enlightened basis so that we make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204519	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204522	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen to reiterate the priorities of the Social Democrats in relation to infrastructure a number of times. One might say a little cheerful that the priority which is now being given in this Chamber and has been repeated a number of times since the elections was not the information that was just given to the electorate before the elections. There I met a number of parliamentary candidates for the Social Democratic Party, who were at least as concerned about investment in infrastructure as the Left was. There were no reservations at all. I just have to ask: when the government is saying at the moment that it will invest 30 billion. kr. In general housing, should I take this as an expression of the fact that investment in housing is more important than investment in motorways? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204624	Well, thank you, sir. Hans Andersen for the question. In other words, it was specifically announced here a few days ago that it is important that we find some projects that can be set in motion here and now to hold hands under employment and to hold hands under the Danish economy here on top of the corona crisis. And it is quite well known to people in this Chamber who work with housing policy that there are incredibly many applications in the Landsbygningsfonden for renovation projects in the general housing sector. The general housing sector in Denmark has about half a million dwellings. There are very, very many places where you can get started, because project letters have been made from applications. All you need is for the Landsbygningsfonden money to be at stake as well. That's the 30 billion. DKr., this is the case here. After all, it is not such money that is taken from infrastructure investments. It is money earmarked for the housing sector, for the general housing sector, which is going to be spent on this. So we cannot make such an artificial set-up that it is either housing investment or road investment that is a false contradiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204733	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204736	But then the question is whether the Social Democratic Party really wants to get started with road investment as quickly as possible, because there were plans for us to have the spade in the ground by 2021. However, can the Socialist rapporteur guarantee that the spade will then be put to the ground by 2021? Because there are also road projects that can be done here and now. The projects are described, they are on the shelf, and you can take them down and invest in them, just as you can with the general housing. And it is true that it does not have to be either-or, but I just have to understand that at the moment social democracy is giving priority to general housing rather than investment in motorways.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204825	Thank you. I don't know if sir. Hans Andersen has been in media quarantine in the last 14 days, because among us transport rapporteurs there is at least something we are proud of, and that is that we have now launched the Fehmarn project • a huge project for many billions of dollars to connect Denmark and Germany. So, yes, we know that there are some infrastructure investments that can be set in motion, and we have done so in broad agreement within the conciliation circle. So, sir. Hans Andersen kicks in an open door thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204859	Then it's Mrs. Heidi Bank, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505204905	Thank you. I would like to stress that we in the Left are very pleased that the Social Democrats have listened to us to get some of the projects in the Landsby Foundation under way. That is also why it is astonishing when both the rapporteur and the Minister in this Chamber are using a very, very serious situation, which our country is faced with, as a reason why a new infrastructure plan will not be set in motion, especially in view of the fact that during the election campaign we did not hesitate to join a large number of projects. I can just mention such a thing as getting the E45 three-track on each page... there was full support for that. It's just to mention one project in my own circle. I'm surprised you don't want to. Then the climate is also used as an excuse, but one of the reasons why we are pushing for mobility is precisely that we want to ensure the green transition. After all, every time there is a mother or a father in line on the motorway, they lose time, but it also costs the green switch.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505205016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505205018	Thank you to Mrs Heidi Bank. We are looking at what is possible to achieve in the short term in order to create jobs here and now, and that is among other things. That is why one of the fastest instruments we can use at all is the Landsbygningsfonden, for example. is the project with E45 that was mentioned as an example, of course not something you can just start tomorrow. It is the case that when we make infrastructure investments and projects, vvm statements and other things have to be made, and that is something we have to wait for before we can start the works. Unfortunately, this is the case, but it should also be remembered that the agreement reached by the blue parties before the elections, which was voted down by the electorate, is not just a large portfolio of investments that can be set in motion here and now, it was an agreement that should last for ten years, and therefore there are also many of the projects that need to be examined first before they can be started. Now we have started with the Fehmarn connection, and we have started with the general housing sector, and in this way we take the decisions that need to be taken so that we can focus on employment in the short and medium term.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505205132	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505205134	I would like to sign and say that it is very positive that we should look at how we can get the projects started in the Landsbygningsfonden and move on with the Fehmarnlink. All this is positive, but it does not change the fact that we are wondering why an infrastructure plan is not being set in motion. For the longer the Social Democracy chooses to sit on their hands and wait, the more jobs this will cost, and for the Left it is only important that we keep our hands on Danish jobs. So why don't we get to work on this infrastructure plan now, so we'll just get on with it, because I agree that this takes time to get our hands on the job? After all, this is not a crisis that will be over tomorrow. I certainly do not expect that from the Social Democrats or from us in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505205221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505205223	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is not just a matter of headless rushing into all sorts of things differently. It is also about just taking a deep breath and seeing where this corona crisis is actually leading us, what the economic ratios look like, what we have and what, in the light of it and from the climate action plans, is the most sensible thing to do. I think it is very wise for us to do so, because it will have an enormous effect on whether we keep our hands on employment, whether we keep our hands on our climate and whether we keep our hands on the Danish economy. And we must therefore do things in the right order and not just stand by and make fine speeches about wanting to hold hands under employment here and now, because it must also be linked to the other, and we are doing what we can, but it is not just in the area of infrastructure that we are doing something about it, for example. also in the residential area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505205322	Thank you. Then I have no one else who wanted to make brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr von der Vring. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505205332	Thank you, sir. President. It has been some time since the Left's transport rapporteur, in his rapporteur's speeches, was out to quote from some Chinese proverbs, of which there are, of course, many in a country like China. There is also this saying from China: when elephants fight, the grass suffers. It is a bit like this in this case of an infrastructure plan or not an infrastructure plan. So, there was a proposal from the red parties, mainly from the Social Democrats, in January 2019, and then one came in March from the blue parties. Some elephants are fighting, but who's gonna get hurt in the end? After all, we must all admit this, I think, and the Danish People's Party, that is the grass. In this case, it is investment in sustainable infrastructure, and it is also a lot of investment that could have positive and beneficial effects on climate impact, environmental impact, etc. Instead, the séance continues and the queues are getting longer and longer on the motorways, and we are getting more and more disgruntled citizens, who are getting less mobility and harder to do their job. Can you be satisfied with that? No, the Danish People's Party certainly doesn't think you can. That is why we have actually insisted in all the places where we have been able to do so that we should maintain that there should be an infrastructure plan which also gives citizens and businesses, jobs, the confidence they need to be able to assess when they dare to invest in Denmark and where they dare to buy housing. All these things have been shot at corner kicks. It is simply because, having run a massive election campaign with a large number of initiatives that would have been carried out, the government, immediately after winning the elections, crawls in flight cover. Then we will not go out and defend all the good initiatives that lie in the social democracy itself. It is therefore wrong, and it is not fair, that a party which has been so trusted and given great support completely neglects their own policy. So what they have promised the citizens and what they have also promised those who today should almost feel like criminals because they are driving in their car to get to work. That is why there is something to work with in the Social Democratic Party, not least for the Party's ministers and, above all, for the Minister of Transport. What is it that we can look forward to, which has now become unclear and where the necessary priorities are not being taken up? It's not just a bypass in Mariager that people love to hate. They are initiatives in relation to climate routes; they are things that benefit the environment; they are ferry services; they are repairs to the country's bridges; they are road safety; they are noise protection and all sorts of other things like bicycle path initiatives and things that should give young people in Denmark a safe way to school. It is also investment in our asphalt, of course it is, but it is just the case that we cannot all live on a bicycle path. We have already heard here tonight that some people think that we should just have some more bike paths. But not many people want to ride from Kolding to Esbjerg to get to work, even with a good e-bike it is just too far. That is why we in the Danish People's Party believe that it is essential in principle that we get these negotiations on an infrastructure plan under way. It is precisely by combining the red elephants and the blue elephants that the grass can start growing again. Because what's going on now is that we've got a tramps trail where nothing really happens. Now we have even been able to see that the Prime Minister of the country chooses to do so in Aalborg, where she has been elected, so go out and say that you do not want to start the infrastructure negotiations in 2020 and maybe not even in 2021, and that we now have to wait until 2022. In the Danish People's Party we cannot really understand that a government chooses that kind of tactic. We think this is a strange premise. If you look at the Social Democracy and thus the government's own infrastructure plan from January 2019, you can see that a flybone has been set by an extension of the Hillerød motorway, completion of the Frederikssund motorway, a third Limfjord connection, the motorway between Næstved and Rønnede etc. etc. All the elements are set out in the Blue Infrastructure Agreement. Still, we're about to experience this training. I do not think anyone can be served with that, and I also think it is unfavorable for the nation and for all our stakeholders in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505205845	Thank you. It does not appear that there are any brief comments, so we proceed in the rapporteur's line to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505205857	Thanks to the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the New Citizens for calling this debate. Mrs Mette Thiesen, from New Citizens' Party, certainly got at least one really smart thing to say, namely: now that the Social Democracy and the Left are openly agreed on what needs to be built, why is it that we do not just get that agreement done? So I would just like to sign up for this debate, because in the Radical Left we would certainly like to join in making an agreement and also make a broad agreement, and that in quotation marks, stupid questions, Mrs Mette Thiesen, is the right question: why not just make that deal? After all, the transport sector is an area that is very well suited to broad agreements alone because of the fact that it often takes several years and sometimes several decades before a piece of infrastructure is planned and built, and that is why it is a very good idea to make broad compromises, so that citizens, businesses and all sorts of others know what roads and lanes and what else is being built in the coming decade or years. That is why I would just like to express a very sincere hope from this point of view that we will soon be able to get these negotiations started and also have a broad agreement, as I heard both the Minister and the Social Democratic Party express their hopes. We hope so too. For us, it is clear that we need to think of infrastructure as part of the climate objective that the vast majority of parties have set themselves, namely that by 2030 we must reduce CO2 emissions by 70%. Compared to 1990 levels. Transport accounts for a very large proportion of Denmark's CO2 emissions. I do not have the exact figures, but at least it is well over 90 per cent. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen mentioned when we look at the public traffic, where there are still buses and trains running on diesel and other fossil propellants. But this also applies, of course, as the Left, sitting behind me, points out over and over again, especially for aircraft, cars and trucks, and for aviation fuel, it is 100 per cent that is not from renewable energy. We need to do something about this, and Denmark has had a great tradition of converting the production of various forms of energy and transport work. Take the entire power production, where by 2030 we can look forward to all power in Denmark being from renewable energy sources. It has just come about with broad settlements where large investments have been made, but where people have also dared to say that they have to pay something extra for electricity and heat, so that it can be invested in renewable energy, so that we can address the climate challenge we are facing, but also, and it is very important that we can develop an entire green industry with various new solutions that we can export. The same could apply to transport. It is true, as a number of rapporteurs say, that a path does not need to be seen as something harmful to the climate. It depends, of course, on which cars, trucks and buses are driving on those roads. Maybe I don't want to go as far as mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen and say that a road is green, but it will certainly be significantly greener if it is cars on renewable energy running on it. But if that argument is to be upheld, at the same time as making an infrastructure agreement, we must also make, for example, an agreement on infrastructure. an agreement that public fleets of buses, for example, will run on renewable energy and that more passenger cars will run on renewable energy. For us, these things are connected, and we think that both the discussion on infrastructure investment and the discussion on how we can make green investments in transport are something we might as well start now. That is why I would like to thank those who have tabled this question once again, because we might as well get the discussions and the negotiations started so that we can have the broad conciliation that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505210332	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the SF rapporteur, Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505210343	Thank you. We are also very impatient in the SF, but we also understand, of course, that there is a corona situation that has got in the way a little and that we have to deal with before we can get started properly. But that being said, the climate crisis does not solve itself simply because there are corona viruses around the world and that is why we need to get started. And we need to get on with some investment, which this time is contrary to the plan that the bourgeois people made in the spring of the year, which places a clear emphasis on investments in green modes of transport, public transport, cycling, that is, what we know works when we have to make green conversion in the transport sector. We would very much like to make broad agreements in the SF. We think this is an excellent tradition in transport. So, of course, we look forward to reaching a broad agreement with the government and the bourgeois in the infrastructure negotiations when we get there. We would also very much like, before we get there, to have implemented the Train Fund DK. After all, the Train Fund DK is a settlement that has been agreed among the conciliation parties... the government, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left. And as we have also discussed before, there are some loose ends in the Train Fund DK, which of course we would very much like to help put in place; but first of all it needs to be put in place so that there is room on the desk to make new large, green public transport investments when we reach the infrastructure negotiations, which must be wide. And we look forward to it. I would really like a little reflection to be made on the situation we are facing today, because I think it is an expression of the lack of information and dialogue about what is really going to happen. We might also have thought of more of this in the SF, so we would actually like to sign the parties that have called this debate, because we think it is beneficial, that is to say we have a talk about what it really is that we each want, because then there is a scratch on the boil. I hope that the Minister will continue to do so when we are finished in this Chamber tonight. I'm thinking that now we've started, and we might as well finish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505210558	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF rapporteur, so we move on to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505210608	The Corona crisis and the economic crisis that has now followed in the wake of it and is running out of breath mean, first and foremost, that thousands of people have lost or are about to lose their jobs. At the same time, we are faced with climate change, which, in our opinion, remains unresolved. So we are facing an economic crisis and a climate crisis, and it is crying out for green investment. The Enhedslisten has put forward a programme in which we set 55 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on this subject, but I would also like to say that we want to invest in the welfare of a number of colleagues for some of the people who have taken the huge garbage here during the Corona crisis in the welfare sector, not least in the hospital system. We are also concerned about security for the unemployed, but of course also about investments in critical infrastructure such as equipment and vaccine production etc. etc. So this is about creating jobs at this stage and getting us through the economic crisis. And it has to be said that nothing is so bad that it is not good for anything, and the situation that has arisen is, after all, a golden opportunity to speed up the infrastructure negotiations, and we share, as I have said before, the impatience that has also been around this. There is currently an urgent need for some stimuli, a stimulus package or something like that, and there is an urgent need for a climate action plan, including in the field of transport, and we urgently need to negotiate some transport investments, also because some of those mentioned by Andreas Steenberg are a long time on the way from decision to actual execution. After all, we believe that the investments that need to be made in the infrastructure must, of course, contribute to the green transition, and we also believe that there is a need to speed up that conversion. That was already before the Corona crisis, and there is certainly now. It must create the jobs that we are already lacking and which we are going to miss to a large extent and which are going to get us through the economic crisis. Transport is one of the great sinners when it comes to CO2 and when it comes to particles, and we from Enhedslisten place emphasis on green transport, that is, on railways, including light rails etc., and on bicycle paths and cycling in general. In connection with our crisis plan, which we have put forward here a week ago, we have a whole range of transport projects. Two and a half pages of A4 have been created with various projects. They are not all feasible on the spot or within half a year, but, as I said, in the transport sector, many of the projects are long in progress. And we also believe that economic stimuli are needed for very, very many years to come. We are not getting out of this economic crisis right away, and that is why the transport sector is well suited to investing in withdrawing from the economic crisis, but it is also true in the longer term. Of all the many projects we have mentioned, we also have some preferred projects. The new track over West Funen will be proposed as soon as possible. We already proposed this in connection with the Construction Act. We had to park our wish at the time, because the Minister of Finance did not think it was a good idea, I remember. But we think this is a good idea, and we could discuss it now. We then suggested that it could be brought forward to 2021, but it may well be that we have only to bring it forward to 2022 • what do I know? But that's one thing we wanted to do. There is the Eastern railway, which is currently being demolished, if I may say so, because it is poorly maintained and is therefore running at a lower speed. There's a double track between Tinglev and Padborg. There is the level-free cutting, flying over, and what it is all called, east of Ringsted on the new track, which has also been discussed for many years, and which will of course be needed when the Fehmarn connection is once established. And then, of course, there is the whole Train Fund DK, which is an investment plan over 10-15 years, and which therefore meets in many ways some of what the parties who have called for this debate are calling for in relation to infrastructure negotiations. We can see that the Togfonden DK is then not included in the bourgeois plan, at least with nothing but a few sub-projects. And it has also been parked for the 4-5 years when the Blue Government was in power, unfortunately, so we have suffered a loss of pace there. We are also investing heavily on bicycle paths, and that is something that can be realized immediately. It doesn't take so long to get it designed and done, and there are also a number of projects around, first and foremost super bike paths that make it good and easy to commute, but there are also a number of projects around, at Kibæk and Tønder and in Hvidkilde on South Funen. So there is every reason to go to war and go to war now, and there we urge that we do not use the Corona crisis as an excuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211136	Thank you! There are a few brief comments from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211141	I am one of those who am very optimistic about the green transition of transport, and it is really my impression that it is also Enhedslisten that Enhedslisten has great faith that climate laws and climate action plans will give a proper boost to the green transition of transport, including to passenger transport and individual passenger transport in cars. So why is it really that Enhedslisten keeps presenting cars as something that runs fossil while trains are the only green thing that exists? So, is it really because you do not believe in the action plans that you are about to start negotiating with the government? Do you not believe that it will be possible to convert car transport in Denmark and therefore insist that only trains can be green? Or do you have something against cars which go beyond the fact that they are currently running on fossil fuels, since they seem to have something against them when they drive green in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211251	It is therefore a misunderstanding, and I do not think I have been involved in a transport debate in this Chamber, where I have not had to correct the misunderstanding that Enhedslisten should be such an anti-car party or that we do not like cars. It's got nothing on it. I have a little Kia Picanto myself, and I have highlighted that many times. I don't use it very much, but I do. No, we have nothing against cars, and we fully agree that there will be a change in the car park in a green direction. It does not come by itself, it must be pushed on the road, and that is also what we are doing well through various measures. So it comes, it doesn't come by itself, it comes through action plans etc. But that does not mean that the car is a "what to say " good means of transport so widely understood. It has its limitations, first and foremost because it fills up the Pomerania. It fills our cities, it fills all the beautiful urban spaces, and it creates tribulation. And no matter how many roads you build until we each have a highway, you just keep generating even more cars and more and more congestion on a higher and higher level. Developments over several decades have shown this to us. We have never had as much congestion as we currently have, despite the fact that the motorway network has been expanded for four decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211411	Thank you to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211415	In fact, we have less congestion or, at least, less car traffic inside, for example. Copenhagen, but it is true that there is congestion on the motorways. And the car will become more popular in the future when it can run itself in 10, 15, 20 years' time because it means that people who want to work while driving, or who are blind, or who have been to a wet Christmas lunch can also take the car. So it's gonna be more popular. So the question is: what is the real problem with building more road capacity for more car traffic? What is it that Enhedslisten has against it? Is it because one is afraid that the area of roads goes from 1⁄2% to 1⁄2%? of Denmark's area at 1%.? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211459	Yes, please. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211500	Well, that's one of the problems. Roads are incredibly resource-intensive and take up a lot in our landscape. It is like barriers that you build down through the landscape; they take up three times as much as a double track rail, for example. And the trend towards self-propelled cars is just creating more car traffic. Yeah, and we don't think that's good, because then it'll just cause more trouble, and there's a big socio-economic loss to that, as I know Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's party and other blue parties are extremely concerned. It is also mentioned in the proposal that you lose 24 billion. kr. etc., right? So what would you do with it if you could transfer people to public transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211546	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211551	Thank you. So there are also economic realities. We have not really mentioned this in connection with the operation of traffic at all. For example: I have an answer from the Minister who demonstrates that every time we move 1 transport kilometre from cars and into trains, it costs society 51 cents to be precise. So it is really expensive to move people out of cars and into trains, and then when people like their car, the challenge for me is not to fight carism, but to make sure that the cars turn green, that they become modern and pollution-free and even self-propelled at some point. We must then adapt our infrastructure to this and then provide some incentives for people to use public transport where it is crushingly strong, namely in the larger cities. There's public traffic crushingly strong. But I'd like to sign Mr. Simpson's letter. Henning Hyllested that you too are pushing for us to get these negotiations started, and I would also like to sign up to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, who did the same. For it is of course important to get started, and that is why I would like to ask whether there is also in the press on your side a recognition that we can easily negotiate in parallel an infrastructure agreement and a climate action plan including the transition to greener transport. Those things can run parallel and maybe even with great advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211715	Thank you. There is one drawback to the fact that we have a little rowade in how we sit and stand, and it is that it is very difficult for me to show when the speaking time is up. So you can look up at me every once in a while to see if your speaking time is up. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211730	Yeah, we'll have to try that. I would say that we believe that, as we have seen, these negotiations could easily take place in parallel. I think we could get started and we have pushed ahead with the Minister, and I also see that the Minister is prepared to look at the possibilities that exist. I certainly think so. In relation to some of the things that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen raised his question, among others. the socio-economic consequence of moving people from cars to trains, I would say: yes, it thinks damn well when cars today generate a lot of money in terms of registration fees and fuel taxes. So any socio-economic calculation always becomes the backside of public transport, if I may say so. But we cannot take care of that, because we need public transport to be expanded. Today's Danish rail traffic is pathetic if we compare it with some of our neighbouring countries, and this is due to the fact that investments in it have been neglected and that it has been neglected for many decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211845	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211847	The railway has not been completely neglected. The other day, I received a reply from the Minister on how much money we have actually spent on the railroad between 2009 and 2019, and as far as I remember, the figure in the region was 123 billion. kr. We don't have the railroad that completely neglected. On the other hand, we have spent only a tiny part of that amount on the road network. So we spend a lot of money on the railroad, and we also need more in the future. I have mentioned some projects that we are interested in. But does Enhedslisten not agree that the key is that we have trains running on time on the railways we have, instead of continuing to throw new projects into the air, given that Banedanmark has penetrated all the way down to the sock holders because of the many projects and the many balls they have in the air? Shouldn't we get the trains to run on time rather than keep throwing new projects into the air?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211940	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505211943	No, it's a boat-and, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. When it is mentioned that Banedanmark cannot overcome it, I would say that it is because Banedanmark has been pruned. They have been cut to the bone at Banedanmark, and they have had to hand in several of their departments. They are now located in private consultancy firms carrying out exactly the same work as Banedanmark did 5, 10, 15 and 20 years ago. So it damn well thinks Banedanmark isn't always able to solve the problems. No, it must be invested in getting the Danish railway just about up to a European level rather than letting go, as has been done for decades. Because it has
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212026	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212031	Thank you. Well, I'm young and relatively newly elected opposite, sir. Henning Hylllested, sorry, but who has been here considerably longer than I have, and when I listen to this debate, I get a little curious. - Sir... Henning Hyllested might be persuaded to tell me a little about what traffic researchers think should be done about congestion problems? Because I think that is very interesting for the debate we have here today, and I do not have the experience and the political knowledge to be able to explain something about it properly. So, maybe sir. Henning Hyllested can fill up a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212115	Yes, they say quite clearly that it is not enough, for example. to make public transport cheaper, but that at the same time it is necessary and it is actually their main tool to make car traffic more expensive if it is to be achieved that there will be less car traffic and hence less congestion, and that is an argument that I have bought, and I think they also have scientific evidence to say so. So I stick to that a lot. After all, it has gone the very opposite way here under the former Blue Government, where the Liberal Alliance in particular succeeded, it must be attributed to lowering the price of cars, lowering registration fees in several stages, and at the same time the fuel charges have not been followed up, because they are hit by the tax freeze, etc. etc. So driving has become cheaper and cheaper, and it has become more expensive and expensive to drive public transport. In our opinion, it is quite wrong and contributes to caring as much as it does today and that we have a Danish rail network and a Danish rail traffic which is, I do not want to say to the rats, because it is not, but is not, of a proper European standard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212225	Thank you. Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212229	Oh, that's exciting. Does this mean that Enhedslisten believes that part of the infrastructure investments we need to make is actually also about reducing congestion and saving some motorway projects by, for example, Doing a procedure called road pricing? I'd like to hear that from the SF. Because I know that's our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212252	Yeah, it certainly has. I remember when the Tribulation Commission put forward its proposal to implement an experimental scheme of 100 million. In this connection, the bazaars for road pricing, and it was your own party chairman who was the Transport Minister at the time, and the government then agreed to pour it down the board. The Enhedslisten were the only ones who at that time maintained that we should have an experiment on road pricing. Had we taken it then, we would have had huge knowledge of what it means to introduce road pricing. Later, Sund & Bælt carried out a small experiment where they have had very good results. So we certainly believe that road pricing is one of the things that needs to be waged in the future, also for the financing of the car park, and we believe that the Eldrup Commission will also come up with that. We can't believe anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212345	Thank you. As another service message: If it is difficult to see if I have got up, then you also have a little watch in your seat that shows when the speaking time has passed. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212403	Thank you very much, President. After all, many things have already been said in the Chamber today. What we can agree on, and what we can see, as the debate has been, is that, on the one hand, the corona has made our country poorer, on the other hand, the infrastructure and the way in which we queue in Denmark make us poorer, and that does so every day. It's gonna cost society this $24 billion. kr. we've talked about during the day. That's about 77 million. hours you keep quiet in traffic every year, which corresponds to approx. 40,000 full-time jobs. It's time and money we're wasting, and we're holding the Danes hostage. Now I do not want to go into the very long list I have here, about what has been said and done by the Social Democratic Party in the election campaign. I think the debate is too long and too late for the debate, but I just want to say that we have to remember that welfare is also being able to pick up its children on time. At the same time, we know that better mobility promotes the labour market. We know that where there is a good infrastructure, business clusters and therefore jobs are created. That is why it is extremely important that we promote infrastructure. I listened gladly to the Minister when he told us about the sale of electric cars, and we have to say that the general increase has been, including with regard to other fossil-free cars, among others. hybrid cars and hydrogen cars are great to follow. Then I think it is very worth noting that if you take a modern diesel car today and drive it into the middle of Copenhagen, the air that comes out of the back of that car is cleaner than the air that comes into the front of the car. That is why it makes really, very good sense to run the infrastructure agreement together with the negotiations on the climate action plan that lie ahead. We know from the asphalt industry that 140 employees were dismissed as early as the autumn because there were no jobs in the pipeline, and at the same time we know that in the road construction industry it was just under the edge of 1,000 people. I do not know the figure today, but it has certainly become slightly higher even, and I simply do not think we can be familiar with that. So in the name of properness, we have to do something about it. There are, of course, a great many cases, as has been mentioned in the past, on which we can easily agree across the middle. It could be the extension of the motorway at Kolding, the Frederikssund motorway or double track Tinglev-Padborg, just to mention some examples. We in the Conservative People's Party are very concerned about getting the wheels back on track, and there are a number of proposals and solutions on the back of corona in the area of infrastructure, I think we should get started. Then we have to remember, both when discussing public transport and car traffic, that this is also very much about Outskirtsdanmark, and that the figures that come out are therefore not some that we can so take directly and put down all over the country. We just have to remember that in this whole debate. I am also very pleased with the recognition which has come from the other side of the House that we have raised this question, so with those words I shall sit down again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212736	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212740	That is a comment on Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen's remark that a modern diesel car that drives into town today has a cleaner exhaust than the air it takes in. That is simply not true! That is simply not true and I do not know where the information comes from. I know that the myth was created at some point, and I think it was the manufacturers of diesel cars who created the myth, but I think it was forgotten to tell you that there is a filter, which is admitted to be extremely effective, but that filter is cleaned and it is cleaned automatically; it is not just cleaned on an ongoing basis. So that's a bit more pollution with those diesel particles than Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen claims.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212834	I can then say to Enhedslisten's rapporteur that it comes from an experiment that was made back in May 2019 by the Technological Institute, and I do not assume that the Technological Institute is in the pocket of car manufacturers, at least there are things I have not understood. But I can inform you that it is back from 28 May 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212900	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212902	Well, we must have investigated that clearly, because I have been following that case too, and I could not understand it, and I have read it in articles I think it was in the Engineer, but it should not be hung up on the fact that it is clearly pointed out that this is not the full truth about the diesel exhaust.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212920	I'll look forward to that, sir. Henning Hyllested and I will have a debate later.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212928	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505212934	Thank you, President. I am still a little surprised that I was praised by the Radical Left very rarely. But in this area, I can see that there is also a desire that we get started on this. As I said before, both from the Social Democratic Party and also generally before the parliamentary elections, there has been a plan for infrastructure, which is why I really intend to use my rapporteur's speech to tell you about some of the things that New Citizens would like to have included in this infrastructure agreement, which we hope we will be called for very soon because it is urgent. In New Citizens we want a rapid and continuous expansion of the Danish road network. That is why it is our priority to have a large number of road projects in the future infrastructure plan • the infrastructure plan that we believe should come soon. And we very much hope that the Minister will call for negotiations as soon as possible because it is urgent. Our overall view is that we want a fast and continuous long-term plan for the expansion of the Danish road network: the establishment of the third Limfjord link; the extension of the E45, the East Jutland motorway, from four to six tracks down to the German border; the completion of the Frederikssund motorway; the extension of the Hillerød motorway; the motorway between Næstved and Rønnede; the construction of a harbour tunnel in Copenhagen; the establishment of a bridge between Als and Funen; the abolition of user charges on the Storebælt Bridge and Kronprinsesse Marys Bro in Frederikssund; and the dismantling of plans for Ring 5, both the southern and the northern liner. That's some of the stuff. For us, transport equality is the heading of transport policy. Today there are subsidies for ferry services to and from the Danish islands, but that is not good enough. We want full traffic equality so that in future it will cost no more to sail 1 km on the blue sea than it costs to drive 1 km on the black asphalt. It shall apply throughout the year and on all flights. Expensive ferry transport must be a saga only, because the transport of goods and people must not impose an extra financial burden on our island communities. These are societies that we all want to preserve as living societies with opportunities for growth and prosperity, and that is why we must make conditions better for them. Unfortunately, many people have forgotten the cohesion of our country. It is important, and it is part of our unique cultural heritage as a people who inhabit the Danish islands, and therefore it is incomprehensible that there are user fees both on Storebælt Bridge, but also on Crown Princess Mary's Bridge in Frederikssund. In new citizens, we believe that user charges should be abolished. It is simply against common sense that there should be user charges on roads and bridges. This hampers cohesion and mobility in Denmark. We Danes already pay some of the world's highest taxes and taxes. It is deeply problematic that politicians want to tax Danish families and companies further, and that development needs to be reversed. As I started by saying, I am very much looking forward to having talks with the Minister for Transport and the other parties in the Folketing about an infrastructure agreement, hopefully, because in New Citizens we have our priorities and funding in place. We want growth and prosperity for all parts of the country. This requires easy availability and a strong infrastructure where, among other things, there is a need for a high level of accessibility. are good roads, bridges and ferries. And we know that we are far from getting through with all our wishes, especially when we also have a desire for a broad agreement, a long-term agreement, but we would really like to help draw an agreement in the right direction. So I would like to make a further request: let us be called to these debates, let us sit down and find a solution, let us make a broad agreement where we get some of these priorities, with which many of us very much agree. Let's do this soon, because it's urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213343	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213348	Thank you. It is just a clarification question. I therefore agree with almost everything that the New Citizens' rapporteur outlines as being things that need to be included in an agreement. But I take note of the suggestion that driving over Storebælt should be completely free of charge. Because it is the case that very much of the heavy transport through Denmark is Swedish and German traffic. We also have a Fehmarn connection on our way. I am thinking of all the Eastern European trucks that drive through Denmark and also drive domestic goods in Denmark. Does New Citizens think that all the foreign cars just have to drive freely around Denmark without paying, and then the Danish taxpayers and Danish companies have to pay the many, many billions of dollars that it has cost to build and still cost to maintain our building stock on the Danish bridges?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213442	Thank you for the question. The very argument put forward by the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party is, in fact, the reason why, among other things, we are here. is against a Ring 5, against the HH connection up at Helsingør, in fact also against Fehmarn · because we were against the kind of transport where Sjælland was used as some sort of bypass from Sweden down to Germany. So that way, I don't really see the criticism. The Storebælt link was built some years ago. It has been used as some form of state overdraft, and we believe that it is time to abolish the user charge on the Storebælt link, while, of course, abolishing it at Crown Princess Mary's Bro in Frederikssund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213528	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213531	Well, it's fine to do away with things, but when there's a debt in the mechanism there, it's gotta be paid. So if you just put into practice what New Citizens are proposing, at least some responsible parties are left with a quite large bill of quite many billions of dollars. So I can't really buy the answer that's being given from New Citizens. What I'm asking has nothing to do with Ring 5. I ask about all the foreign cars that drive heavy goods vehicles in Denmark. We have lots of pony cars under 3,500 kg, and it is foreign cars that drive into Denmark and out again and are not subject to the rules of cabotage. You're just gonna let them? Is it really New Citizens' policy that it should be free for all these trucks to drive around Denmark without contributing to the community?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213619	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213621	I think this is such a funny premise, because we are making an infrastructure plan based on what is good for Denmark, what is good for the Danes, what is good for the cohesion in Denmark, what is good for mobility, what is good for growth and prosperity, and that is among other things. Therefore, we want to remove some of the user charges that are precisely anti-growth. One can take a concrete example, such as Crown Princess Mary's Bro in Frederikssund. It was mentioned earlier by the Minister that then you could just stop running over. You could just leave it out. But it is not possible to do so, for example. is a private trader and has a vehicle over 3,500 kg. Then you have to use the new bridge and pay, and we do not think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213706	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213710	I just got a little curious because Mrs Mette Thiesen said that New Citizens are against a future HH connection and the Fehmarn connection which is now being set in motion because New Citizens are against the Swedes using Zealand to get to Germany. My question is this: is the idea of the New Citizen that the Swedes must drive over Finland, Russia, the Baltic States, Poland to come to Germany? And is the idea of the New Citizen that if we do not build an HH connection and do not start with Fehmarn, they will drive that way, through Finland, Russia, the Baltic and Poland, to get to Germany?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213752	No, they'll sail like they do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213757	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213802	I can tell you that Sweden's truck transport is already going across Zealand to a very large extent today and will continue to do so, whether we are building an HH connection or a Fehmarn connection. Furthermore, I can tell you that the Fehmarn connection makes it possible for some of the transport of goods and, incidentally, also passenger transport from Sweden down to Germany to be carried out on rails and thus not to burden the Danish road network.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213826	It is not a task for Danish politicians to ensure better transport for the Swedes from Sweden down through Denmark and to Germany, or for Germans up through Denmark to Sweden. It is our responsibility as politicians in Denmark to ensure Danes better mobility and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213844	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505213852	It is very fortunate, because then I can say to Mrs Mette Thiesen that the projects that are being talked about here, that is to say a future HH connection and a Fehmarn connection, are user-paid projects, and that means that as soon as they have been paid off, the money will be poured into the Danish Treasury from the Swedes who use them, and it will be a huge surplus generator for the Danish state, which means that the Danish taxpayer does not have to pay so much for everything possible in Denmark, because the Swedes will pay a number of billions to use our buildings. Well, back to the need for an infrastructure plan. It must be seen in the light of the fact that transport in Denmark and also in the world around us in the future will be green as opposed to today. Today we are very much riding on petrol and diesel, whether in trains, buses or cars and also in trucks, but in the future it will be different. We are in Denmark electrifying the train transport. It is, in fact, already it is not today electrified to a great extent, but in the future it will be, and it will apply on the main lines. The buses will also in the future drive around on green power or perhaps hydrogen we do not quite know, but they will certainly be green, especially in urban traffic. The cars will also turn green. We can see this from the fact that the car industry invests hundreds of billions of dollars in converting production from petrol and diesel cars to what the car industry currently believes is the car of the future, namely the electric car. It may well be that in 10 or 15 years' time, the car industry will think that it is another kind of technology... perhaps hydrogen or an energy form, as Mr. Left. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen puts his trust in the production of green fuels that can come into traditional tanks, but right now it seems that it is the electric cars that have the future, because it is there, all the hundreds of billions of dollars are spent. So it is wrong to pursue investment policy in relation to the infrastructure on the assumption that if you build roads, they will not help with a green conversion, whereas if you build track bodies, they will help with the green conversion. All transport will be green in the future. This will be helped by the decisions we are taking here, to a large extent by the decisions taken at EU level, but also by the technological developments that are taking place. The optimism that one has reason to assume in this area would not be so great if it had not been for the pioneer work that Tesla's founder, Elon Musk, has done with the development of new batteries that can be used for cars. That is why I do not understand the government's hesitations and allegations that an infrastructure plan cannot be negotiated at this stage, because everything else is in a hurry, or because we have to wait for an action plan for the climate. There's plenty of negotiations around here. I have just been debating in the Ministry of Taxation today some aspects of housing taxation that we need to find out. We have held many meetings on this, and we will have many more. So, Minister, I know that the Minister of Transport is a diligent guest at photo events all over the country, but he is not in these coronatides because you cannot see any people. It must free up some time in drawing up an investment plan and also negotiate an investment plan, that one does not have to be present when there is a school patrol to lead small children across the road, or by other things that the Minister of Transport spends a lot of his time on. So it is no excuse that the coronate is now setting the agenda. I believe that what is at stake here is that the government has already decided, through its financial law for 2020, that there should be 2 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. kr. per year for 4 years. So I simply do not believe that the government has the money to launch investment in infrastructure by 2020 and 2021 and that this is why we are constantly being delayed. You spend the money on something else. I think you should think about it. It has actually been promised to the electorate that it would start; it has been promised to the electorate that it would be the same as the blue parties, and that is why I now hope that this debate will help to convince us of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505214403	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the next person to speak is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505214410	First of all, thank you for the debate. One might be tempted to go into many details, but in reality I will take a look at the proposals for adoption that lie ahead. One thing we can figure out is that there is a majority in favour, and the other is not a majority in favour. But there are many common quantities, many common elements in the two proposals for adoption. Despite what one might think, and as it will always be in a debate of this kind, where one might imagine one talking oneself a little apart, I see very many similarities, very many coincidences of interests. I am, of course, particularly pleased that all the parties in the Danish Parliament who have been involved in making decisions, including those in the European Parliament, have been involved in making decisions. points out the need to coordinate thoughts on climate action, fossil-free vehicles, green efforts and future infrastructure investments. I'm glad. I am also pleased that both texts for adoption embrace the issue of the current situation we are facing with corona and recognise, and the debate has also reflected this, that infrastructure investment is, of course, one of the instruments that can be used to contribute to the recovery of the Danish economy and to create employment, growth and welfare. Then I just have to say clearly that I can also hear that the potentials that exist in order to make broad agreements are still present, despite the fact that, of course, we may disagree on elements here and here. At any rate, I am quite convinced that the climate of negotiations that we are going to see will also reflect the fact that, in addition to the challenge of creating growth in society, there is also a need, of course, to ensure that the traffic situation is also sensible on the other side of corona. Although we have a need to make investments, we also know that it is not, of course, a sustainable situation, that the trains that are running around, which are funded, and that the buses that drive around and which can be part of the solution to congestion are completely empty. There is a drop in the number of passengers of 80-90 per cent. This is, of course, part of what we must also look into in the coming months and find out how to secure those balances. Of course, we also need cars to drive on the roads and, by the way, to reopen society. But there are challenges that we must, of course, deal with together, and I am confident that we will. I also note, of course, that there have been various well-known projects, that is to say projects included in the infrastructure plan of the previous government, which has been mentioned, but in fact also that some of the parties who have raised the question debate here have mentioned projects in some of the rapporteur's remarks, which were not included in that plan, and not all of them have mentioned the same projects, but I am just taking note of it, and it is also clear that it is not quite wrong that we are having a discussion at a future time when the parties are naturally welcome to include the specific project proposals that they have. As the Prime Minister has also said, it is not the case that the present government has found that all the proposals made by the former government were totally biased. In fact, there are a great many good proposals among them, and fortunately many of the good proposals are also being prepared in various ways. It is being prepared for decision-making. Some of the vvm studies are actually being completed this year, but of course many of them still require work to be done with them before you can put the spade in the ground. Some of this also requires a great deal, i.e. real construction legislation. So, of course, there is also much work to be done, partly in relation to the negotiations to be held, and partly in relation to a mint's work subsequently here in the Folketing. Regardless of the Corona situation, regardless of what else we may need to take of initiatives in relation to climate action, we will also have quite a lot of work in this way, in terms of legislation, in the next decade, and that is not so bad. As the SF rapporteur so well said, the climate crisis is not of itself resolved by the fact that we have had a corona crisis. This highlights some of the challenges we face, but also, for example, that when there is less petrol and diesel traffic on the roads, there is simply also less CO2 emissions, and so we can see that some of the challenge is also about what kind of traffic is driving on the roads and how much it emits. Then, as has rightly been said, there are also loose ends in, for example. Togfonden DK, also on the more short track, not least of course the discussion which has been raised by some of the parties behind the Togfonden DK, about for example a track to Billund, which was brought into the Togfonden DK in particular by a party which is no longer part of it. Of course, I am also aware of this discussion that we must take and resolve it, even before too long a time goes by, just as we also need to start the infrastructure negotiations themselves. In any case, I think that the debate itself here today has actually been quite constructive and I look forward to having the real negotiations started at a later stage. I have no doubt for a second that there will be a great many good ideas, including ideas beyond what was under the previous government. That is why, of course, I also appreciate the fact that the parties constantly draw attention to their priorities. I have to say that this is also a good thing, in other words, to bring in ideas. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215129	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. It's Mrs. Mette Thiesen first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215133	Thank you very much to the Minister for this very fine follow-up speech. It was a little different from the reply the Minister gave me earlier. It was a little short and abrupt. I would just like to remind the Minister of what I said in reply to one of the other rapporteurs, namely that on Crown Princess Mary's Bro it is not just a free choice for traders, those who drive vehicles of over 3,500 kg. No matter what, they're forced to use the bridge. But thank you very much to the Minister for this very fine rounding. It is absolutely true that there are many different priorities and everything else, but I also think that there is a very good common ground for you to sit down and make a very broad, long-term and good agreement across the parties. There are many things we agree on. So I would just like to finish by saying that I look forward to receiving an invitation from the Minister to these debates because, as I said before, it is urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215233	If there is anything that I would like to stress, it is that, when a political agreement is reached, we should also stick to what is now agreed, including the forms of funding. In fact, I remember quite clearly the course of what has now become Crown Princess Mary's Bro, because there was originally a wish locally that this investment in the bridge, a project that would probably be far in the future, would be brought forward if a user fee were introduced. Initially, it was proposed locally that there should be user charges for both the old and the new bridge. The majority of the Danish Parliament could see this as not very sensible. In the end, one of my predecessors contacted the municipality in order to clarify whether you could be interested in implementing this project in such a way that there was partial user funding. As you know, the city council said quite clearly that it was not the whole city council, but a large majority that it was a good idea. On the basis of that, a broad majority in the Folketing then reached an agreement. Of course, such an agreement must be adhered to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215346	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215348	Thank you for the very long outline of a programme that I know quite well. I would just like to say that if a bad decision has been taken, it can be changed, and fortunately it is quite simple to do so, instead of maintaining something that should not have been done from the outset, that is to say the introduction of user charges. However, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and, as I have said, I look forward to being called for negotiations on this major infrastructure plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215420	If this were the case, I would assume, first of all, that such a wish had been expressed in the town council in Frederikssund. It is not my impression that there has been. The second is that no one has proposed how to finance the very high cost it would be. You have to remember that something like this isn't free. It should also be remembered that there is an economy associated with this. And if you have said, as I have said, that you want a user fee in order to get something far earlier than you would otherwise get it, you cannot come afterwards and say: we do not really want that anyway. After all, things are connected, a deal is a deal. I also believe that most transport rapporteurs will agree with me on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215509	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215514	Thank you. That answer naturally leads me to another question about money. I would like to know if the Minister could reveal a little bit of ambition with regard to the framework of a future traffic agreement on the master plan up to 2030. In the Blue Agreement of last year, the overall framework was 112 billion. kr., but there was a certain recycling of money that was carried over to the other side of 2020. The amount of new money was probably in the vicinity of small 70 billion. kr., i.e. fresh money for new projects. So I would like to ask what the level of ambition of the government is in terms of fresh money for new projects that we need to finance. The reason I am asking is that I am looking at the fact with a little nervousness that some of the framework has begun to be customsed, and the 2 billion. kr., as sir. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned was used in connection with the Finance Act and also the hole which among other things. Enhedslisten and SF dream of being filled up, namely the hole in the Togfonden DK's phase two. And if you're about to fill maybe 10-12 billion. kr. or more in that hole left behind, then I start to get nervous about how much money we basically have to spend on a traffic deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215625	What the Danish economy is going to look like on the a little longer track after the corona crisis, hardly anyone can say with certainty today. Nor can we say either what can be used in the short term or in the longer term in order to restore the economy. However, I also think it has to be said that when it comes to green investment, investment in climate, and when it comes to infrastructure investment, it is something that can be used as potential instruments. But the precise framework for what can be used in this area will, of course, be an issue which the government at the Finance Minister will address when we have come across the immediate crisis, in other words where we have to hold our hands in concrete terms under Danish jobs with aid packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215715	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215718	I understand very well that the Minister, like all of us in the House, is subject to higher powers when it comes to getting the money for what we want. But I would like to hear from the Minister whether he will not give an undertaking that we will fight side by side to try to provide as good a framework as possible. Because we have heard that there are plenty of good projects. It may be that there is a little disagreement about what should be weighted most heavily, but there are plenty of good projects that have it in common that they make Denmark richer and greener and everything else we want. So shouldn't we try to fight it together instead of giving up? But we are fighting together to provide a good framework, preferably one that is even bigger than the one that the blue parties managed to provide.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215757	I see it not so much as a struggle, but more as a joint task to ensure that the investments that we wisely have to make in both infrastructure and green investments must of course also support Danish jobs and Danish growth. We are in a completely different scenario also in relation to the Danish economy than we were a few months ago. None of us could foresee how serious the Corona crisis struck us at first, and none of us can predict today how long this will last and the full implications of it. So what the Danish scope will be until 2030, I do not think anyone can give a clear forecast of today. But, when we can, of course, we need to discuss how we rank it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215845	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215847	Thank you for that and thank you for acknowledging, in this way, that road investment, for example. The motorways of Frederikssund and Hillerød can be used to restore the economy. I understand that the Minister agrees with the Left. But the question is, when are we going to have those discussions? After all, the sensible thing is to use the time now to plan what will happen in 2021, 2022 and 2023, because if we do not use the time wisely here in 2020, we will not get started in 2021 by holding hands under Danish jobs. So when does the Minister call for negotiations on a new infrastructure plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505215932	In order to take account of the specific projects in which it is, of course, well known that the questioner is interested, we will both have a final plan basis for this year. I'm really glad we're gonna get that. It is also good projects, very exciting projects, which have great prospects, but they are projects which, in the case of the extension of the Hillerød motorway, lack a construction law. So there is of course some work to be done in relation to it. This is, of course, one of the things that will be included in the forthcoming negotiations. Of course, what the individual parties will be prioritising is one of the things I also look forward to hearing. I know what the rapporteur thinks about the proposals in question. When you are elected in an area, you have to fight for the investments that lie there. It's familiar. I am answering many questions in the Chamber from the various locally elected Members, but in the end it is what the parties carry to the negotiating table that will be crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220045	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220046	[Sound emission]. I am pleased that the Minister is aware of how I would prioritise if it were the Minister and me alone who took that debate. However, my question was essentially as to when we will be discussing it. Well, it's like Mr. Kim. Ole Birk Olesen has stated in the past, and as the Conservative rapporteur has said, that there are projects and it is not the two mentioned projects that were to be launched in 2021. So if we do not spend our time wisely here in 2020 and get into negotiations, we will not get the spade in the ground by 2021. So when does the Minister call for negotiation? That is the question I had, and I repeat the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220131	As I said, apart from the climate perspective, which we have discussed several times, this requires a long-term perspective in relation to our economy, because despite the fact that we can take various initiatives in the short term both in 2020 and for that matter in 2021, the projects that Mr. Hans Andersen mentions having a drain which is beyond that time and which will reach into the room. We need an overview of this before we can begin to dispose of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220206	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220210	I have of course noted that the Minister also points out here the common understanding that there are a great many different areas of cut that are consistent. These are the same wishes that have been expressed by the Socialists and, therefore, by the government and by the blue parties, in the various infrastructure plans that have been presented. But now that we have this common understanding, why can the government not see the reason for making parallel negotiations between the parties, thinking about both the climate and the environment, in relation to the climate negotiations, which must also start at some point in time. The same elements must be considered in a future agreement on infrastructure. There are also large areas for climate and environment. So my question is: why does the government not want to hold parallel negotiations on these two specific issues, which have so many common areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220316	The precise planning of how to do this can be difficult to offer here and now, because much of it also depends on a clarification of the Danish economy in relation to corona. I would just like to refer to Mr Van der Waal's report. Hans Kristian Skibby to what is actually stated in the proposal for adoption, namely that there is a process going on in relation to the climate action plans, and calls for future negotiations on a long-term infrastructure plan up to 2030 to be coordinated accordingly. So the order is not necessarily determined in relation to it. There may be some parallelities. So, in other words, the government has not planned a programme down to a meticulous level for which meetings should take place, but that the rapporteurs are involved, I can at least say with certainty. Just as the rapporteurs are also called one to two times a week for virtual meetings on the Corona situation, we also have to believe me to hold a great many meetings on infrastructure plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220420	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220423	However, there was not so much corona when the announcements from the Prime Minister of the country came about that negotiations on infrastructure would not be launched, especially in view of the desire for full clarification of the negotiations on climate action. That was before we had something to do with corona. Now the Minister is starting to use it to legitimise the fact that we are not going to start these negotiations on infrastructure. That's where there's a big dissertation, sir. Minister. We are some who can see the advantage at least of conducting parallel negotiations so that we can at least think about climate and environmental impacts, etc. in both agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220505	That is also why it makes sense to think about these things, but exactly what meetings should take place when is the good and the big question. Nor is it any different from the fact that, in recent times, green agreements relating to transport have actually been implemented, even an agreement, such as the one Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Hans Kristian Skibby's own party is in, for example. investments in charging infrastructure in the context of the Energy Agreement. That's not bad. And there is, for example. also investments in green buses. It is certainly an agreement that the Danish People's Party is not part of. So it's not like there's no deal being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220549	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220555	If there had still been a bourgeois majority in this Parliament, it would already be planning various projects for 2021. I used to list the whole list. Now I shall confine myself to mentioning two nearer where Mr. Benny Engelbrecht lives, namely the motorway around Kolding, E20/E45, which is heavily strained by traffic and congestion, and the motorway south of Odense. These were two projects to start in 2021. The Government and the Minister have not initiated negotiations that allow us to decide that they should start in 2021, and apparently we will not have those negotiations until 2021, perhaps even in 2022, which means that the projects will not be able to start in 2021. Is the explanation that there is simply no money for it in 2021 because the government has cut 0.5 billion. kr. of the investment account?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220656	You always have to be careful when pointing fingers at others, because there are usually some more fingers pointing the other way. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen says: If there had been a bourgeois majority after the election. Not many people expected that when the bourgeois government reached its very narrow agreement, and therefore the question is really whether it had not been the wisest thing that the previous government had made a broad agreement. The task that has now been put in my hands could be that of my predecessor, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, of course, has completely avoided me having to stand by having a taken responsibility, having made a broad political agreement, having done what is tradition in the Danish Parliament, but as Mr. So Ole Birk Olesen did not think there was a need. This gave the Danes a number of expectations that could not be met, and this was probably well known at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220750	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220753	As the Minister for Transport is aware, we could not make that agreement with the Social Democratic Party because the Social Democracy before the elections had two views. One was that you were not allowed to spend a penny on the roads until you had found 15 billion. kr. The second was that when we made an agreement because the Social Democratic Party did not want to participate, they simply said that they wanted the same thing. And so can we today. After all, the blue parties are ready to do all this if only the Social Democrats and the government will. So the only thing that prevents us from getting started in 2021 is the government, and my question to the government and to the minister is: is it because the government has already cut 0.5 billion. kr. in the 2021 investment framework, that the government has no money for, inter alia, to launch the expansion of the motorway at Kolding and the motorway south of Odense?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220846	What will be the opportunity to invest in the run-up to 2030 in the light of the Corona situation, none of us can actually answer today. However, I believe that we all have a common interest in this overview being created as quickly as possible, with the aim of ensuring that we can make both the necessary investments in infrastructure and also the green investments needed to keep our hands on growth and employment. The latest reports from the Minister of Finance today show that the challenges for the Danish economy are quite gigantic, and no one knew them just a few months ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220925	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505220930	Would the Minister of Transport not confirm that there is no account in the Ministry of Transport in the Ministry of Transport's budget, which would then be called 28 something, namely the Train Fund DK? The point is, of course, that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen again-again says that there is no money in Togfonden DK and that the Trainfonden DK's phase two is unfunded. Will the Minister of Transport not confirm that the financing of the Togfonden DK was based on the equality of operators operating in the North Sea and extracting oil and gas in the North Sea and that therefore the money came into the Finance Act and was granted through the Finance Act to the Togfonden DK? There was an additional revenue from this, which we would then use to finance the Train Fund DK. In fact, this means that, regardless of whether the oil price has decreased, so that it has also decreased, in the time when the previous government did not do anything about the Train Fund DK, it has been spent on the Finance Act, perhaps even on motorway projects, who knows? So that is the mechanism of the Train Fund DK. Wouldn't the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221050	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221054	In any case, there is no doubt that we still have an ambition to continue with the excellent projects of the Train Fund DK, but it is also clear that the financing of this, especially what is the second phase of the Train Fund DK, is an issue which must also be discussed with the Minister of Finance. Having said that, it is clear that we also recognize that there is a clear indication that there are differences of opinion in relation to at least one project in the first part of the Togfonden DK, i.e. the project around the track to Billund. We will, of course, be discussing this in greater detail. It is, of course, a doubt that has arisen after an earlier conciliation party prior to the elections no longer chose to participate in it and thus created some uncertainty about it at that time. But we can see that there is also a majority after the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221156	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221158	That is correct, but it was the mechanism of the Train Fund DK itself that I just asked the Minister of Transport to confirm. I could of course also have asked the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party at some point. Because I remember 'cause I was sitting in the negotiating room in the Ministry of Finance that it was the Danish People's Party that actually raised the issue: What if the oil price drops? It hadn't started at the time, so it was pretty forward-looking. What if the price of oil doesn't live up to what we think it does? What do we do then? There was definitely a deal. It was the then Minister of Finance, Corydon, who said that we have to deal with this every year in the Finance Act. This is how the Train Foundation DK is organized. It is not a fund that collects money over at the Ministry of Transport and thus can only be used for the Togfonden DK projects. It is part of the Finance Act, and the previous government has benefited from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221255	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221258	I can confirm that the Togfonden DK's financing is an issue which must be addressed to the Minister of Finance precisely because it is part of the general fiscal priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221309	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221314	Thank you very much. We have also found earlier today that we spend a great deal of money on keeping queues on the Danish roads. Can I not call on the Minister to call us in so that we can look at what we can agree on in the light of the Corona crisis to launch quickly and so that we can have an economic overview of how much money needs to be spent so that we can sort of get off the ground and at least be at the forefront of developments? I would estimate that we could already do that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221348	In other words, having to dispose of projects which may have a run-off that is in the future may have the implication of making use of a space which is difficult to calculate at the present time. That is also why the Minister for Finance has suggested that what we are doing in the short term is to keep our hands under jobs and make the aid packages that we have agreed on in a broad community and that we can then, on the other hand, start investing in the a little longer perspective. It also said that I am always open to the rapporteurs bringing in proposals, but when we had to arrive at the time when we were going to discuss, on the one hand, what green investment is going to be and, on the other hand, what infrastructure investment is going to be, I cannot set a precise date or day of the week for at this stage, but that is something we are aware of, of course, also that there is a desire for it in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221452	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221454	I just think it must be nice to be at the forefront of development and thus know the economy as to what we can do now. Where are the low-hanging fruits that we can agree on for the benefit of both the government, the opposition and the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221512	Of course, there are many proposals, also from the previous Blue Plan and other projects, for which there are reasonable plant forecasts. And that is no different from the fact that if the rapporteur wants anything else to be calculated, we will, of course, look at it too. It will always be the case that you first make an estimate, an estimate, and later you can proceed to various other more detailed calculations. But it is not the case, it can be said, that there is a lack of a gross catalogue of ideas for what might be possible; there are, in fact, plenty of ideas. So what is particularly lacking is an overview of the Danish economy, which by its very nature is a little difficult to obtain quite topically.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221559	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday, 7 May 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200505221615	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 6 May 2020 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
