ParlaMint-DK_20200519133131	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519133136	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a given.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519133157	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519133204	Thank you. This crisis has really turned everything upside down and changed our everyday life for good and evil. After all, we have had to take more account of each other than we usually do. It doesn't really matter. But there have also been a great many things we would like to do that we have not been able to do. But the worst thing about this whole period has probably been the insecurity that has hit a lot of people. The question has been asked: When do I get my everyday life back? When can I do what I usually do and what I care about? When can I visit my loved ones again? Can I keep my business or my place of work? Can I at all get a job again if I lose or lost my job? But one of the very difficult questions and a great insecurity is, of course, whether you can actually manage to get infected, and if that happens, what happens to you or if one of your loved ones who is at risk can handle such a course of illness. There are just people here whom it is very dangerous to become infected with corona, and that is precisely the group we need to talk about today and which we need to help with this bill. For there are many people who are very worried about returning to their place of work in connection with the reopening of the country because they are simply afraid of being infected with the serious consequences it is now giving. Therefore, it is now possible for them and their relatives to receive sickness benefit by means of this proposal until 31 August if it is completely impossible to get back to work. And when I say quite impossible, it is because it is always best to have a connection to your workplace and to get to work every day if possible. That is why the employer must also try, together with the employee, to arrange the workplace so that the infection can be avoided and if it cannot be done either find another job at the workplace or in some way work from home. But there are, of course, plenty of examples that this cannot be done, and here the bill allows them to be at home on sickness benefits. Once again, I am extremely pleased that all the parties are together to help this group. It's a group that's a lot of pressure in this difficult time, and a group that's obviously worried about their own welfare and the welfare of their relatives. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519133434	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519133449	Thank you. With this urgent legislative proposal, we are now ensuring that people who are not sick are exceptionally covered by the sickness benefit system. This is simply because the covid-19 has led us to find ourselves in a very special situation. Society is being opened up, and this means that we must, in particular, protect those workers who, for health reasons, are at a particular risk from possible covid-19 infection. I am pleased that we can now better protect the group of people who are particularly vulnerable at this time. We are therefore giving a helping hand to those workers who are unable to attend work because of the risk of infection and where homework or other work is not possible. I am pleased that the proposal applies to both private and public employers who are now temporarily entitled to sickness benefit reimbursement from the first day of absence for those workers who are at increased risk and at extra risk. At the same time, this proposal will also apply to relatives, where the scheme is based on the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority for relatives of people at risk. In fact, they are also able to receive sickness benefit reimbursement so that they can look after their loved ones who are at a particular risk from covid-19 infection. All in all, therefore, we are protecting employees, while at the same time keeping our hands on their jobs and companies, and that means a viable labour market in the future, and the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519133641	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519133659	Thank you for that, President. I think we start with the positive thing about this, and that is that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal here. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that those in the risk group can be sent home on sickness benefit if they are in danger and afraid of becoming infected and are insecure about being at work. The crisis started in March and 200 million were set aside a month ago. kr. to this, and then the proposal comes here, saying that we are starting to open up. Well, sir. Minister for Employment Peter Hummelgaard, many of those who should benefit from this, have been on the labour market all the time during the corona crisis. In the health sector, in home care, in the private labour market, there have been a great many who have been at risk, and they did not know whether they were bought or sold, but they could not be allowed to go home if they were insecure. And if they had children at home, they could not be allowed to come home unless they were included in some of the repatriations that were applicable to many companies. But it is not in the business world, and it is not in the craft industry; it is not in the industry that people have been shut down and sent home, nor is it in health care that people have been sent home. There have been a lot of people walking around without knowing whether they were bought or sold, because they could not afford to go home because they were afraid that they would then be dismissed. In good North Jutland, sir. Peter Hummelgaard, Minister for Employment, Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen, President Excuse me, we say only the ministerial titles, not the names). Okay, so I can't say that, even if I corrected it. But then I can say in good north Jutland that this would be to look at it as a once-clampcutter, which is two months late. Instead, it could have benefited those who needed this from the start. I just have to say to Minister for Employment Peter Hummelgaard, who can then pass it on to his colleague: that is not good enough. We are voting in favour of this proposal, but it is not good enough to make such a proposal to a vulnerable group that might have needed it. The Minister for Employment knows very well that many people in the health sector have been at work and have been required to be at work even if they are at risk. There are very many risk groups, and I would like to say that I myself am also at risk because I am overweight, but I do not feel exposed. A screen has now also been set up against the President, so of course it helps a little in terms of protection. This is coming, 21⁄2 months after it was supposed to be in use, but this bill should have been there right from the start, because it would have been great. Now the government is saying that now we are opening up to the labour market, now we have to get to work, and then we have to take care of the risk groups. Yes, you do, but you should have done it right from the start. That is why it is, of course, difficult to say too many words of praise about it, but the good thing is that it is now coming, and that after all, we also included family groups in the scheme so that they can benefit from it. But they had also needed it two months ago. I do not know why it has become the case that much of this urgent legislation comes when we have opened up. The Danish labour market is now being opened up, and to that I would say that it has been going on all the time; something has been going on all the time. This applies to health care, home care, institutions where there have been vulnerable citizens, but it has been going on all the time. In the private labour market, they have been at it all along. So don't pretend anything, because it's like now you want to open up, and then you want to do so much for those at risk. It is late to come with it, but of course it is better with late than never, but it should just have been 21⁄2 months ago, it should have been like this right from the start. When it became possible to send people home with pay compensation or on daily allowances, this proposal should have been there immediately, because then it would have been super good. Now it's just good. We support this proposal, of course, but we should not do more than that either, because there are many who could have used what the proposal entails but who cannot use it because it is too late. The last thing is the confusion with the doctors. I understand that it was confusing and, as I have also said, my opinion is that doctors must of course judge whether they are in the risk group, and they should not deal with what is happening in the workplace, because it must be something that employees and employers can find out whether they should be placed elsewhere. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519134159	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. In order to clarify the misunderstanding, I would just like to mention that Article 26 of the Danish Parliament's Rules of Procedure states that it is the ministerial titles that are used and not the birth name that the Minister has. I guess it should be in place. Then we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519134221	Thank you. The weakest must be the strongest. That's what the Prime Minister said a few weeks ago. And although it may sound like an unreasonable demand and it is also in any other context, this is what it has to be, unfortunately, when the covid-19 virus is still in the country. Think of being parents of a child with a chronic illness or of being married to a person for whom it would have extremely serious consequences to be infected with corona, or perhaps you yourself are at risk. As we reopen Denmark and more and more people have to return to their jobs, people in the risk group and their immediate relatives are naturally affected by insecurity, for what if they become infected or take the infection home? For them, it is just as dangerous to have corona today as it was two months ago. If we are to demand of them that they be the strongest, we also owe them the best possible framework. It took a while, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted has mentioned, and many have rightly expressed frustration. But just as important it was to get a quick agreement, just as important it has been to get a good deal. This is an agreement and a law that contributes to security, covering not only those who are themselves at risk, but also their relatives, and this has been an important priority for the Radical Left. With this bill we have found a solution in the sickness benefit system for those where it is not possible to organize the workplace or work in a way so that they can be carried out in accordance with the recommendations of the Danish Health Service for those who are at increased risk of a serious illness related to covid-19. With these words, I would like to say that the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519134421	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519134431	It has been a long and I think unnecessary long and wrinkled process. But by the sidelines and detours, we have come to the conclusion of the day. Now we can finally send some security to people who are afraid and uncertain whether they can meet at work. People whose health is challenged by e.g. chronic diseases, should not be pressured to meet at work with the risk of being infected with corona, which can, of course, have serious consequences for some of these people, even fatal consequences. And health is a challenge for some people, and besides disease, the corona epidemic also spreads uncertainty. This agreement then also takes care of the relatives, as it is, of course, quite impossible to separate people in the risk group from their relatives. SF would have liked to have seen an agreement based on a model of wage compensation instead of sickness benefit. We would also have liked it to have become less attractive for employers to fire people by not giving refunds during the period of notice. However, regardless of the two elements, the overall agreement is good. This is an important step which will calm down in families that already have enough other issues to deal with. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519134600	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519134607	Thank you. Enhedslisten is very fond of this bill, which extends a safety net to those people who are particularly vulnerable and at risk by coronasmitte. The Enhedslisten has raised the issue since the first aid package was on the agenda, and this group has now succeeded in achieving the security of at least being able to receive sickness benefit if they have to go home, either because they cannot be repositioned at their workplace or their duties are such that it is not possible. This is true either because they are at risk or because their relatives are at risk. The latter group came into the proposal very late, but is now included, and we are pleased about that too. We are particularly pleased that we can now deal with the legislative proposal as a matter of urgency, given that it has come about so late. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519134658	Thank you. And no brief remarks here either, and then it is Mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519134708	Thank you. This is a time of uncertainty, and it is our duty as politicians to help ensure that the Danes get through as well as possible. This agreement and the bill help to ensure, first and foremost because we can now create security and certainty for those who are at risk of becoming seriously ill if they are infected with corona, and we should not be afraid of its financial situation if we cannot meet at work under the guidelines laid down by the Danish Health Authority concerning people in the risk group. We think that is only appropriate, because it should be safe to go to work. As we open up society more and more, it is clear that uncertainty arises for many of the people at risk. The aim of this bill is that they should not feel pressured to meet at work if it cannot be carried out in accordance with the general recommendations of the Danish Health Authority for people at risk. In addition, it is a good agreement for the Danish business community, because at the same time we ensure that employers are granted temporary entitlement to sickness benefit reimbursement from the first day of absence for employees in the risk group. For those companies that have already taken account of workers in the risk group, we are now ensuring that they also receive compensation for those workers who cannot work. We are very pleased about this, and that is why we support the Conservative bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519134845	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519134851	Thank you. I have it with this proposal as with those people who are always 10 minutes late for the party, or those who sign up to do the dishes when you're doing it well, or those who, when you're in town in a pub that we can finally come, always say they're giving the next round when you've already paid it. Because it's as if this bill is just late, but now it is here, and of course we should be delighted about that, and it's nice to see that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party in his zeal thinks this should have come sooner. And there have been some problems about it, but it does not mean that we should not rejoice that it is now here, and therefore, of course, New Citizens can also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519134940	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either, and that is why it is now Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519134947	Thank you. Like all the other parties in the Folketing, we also support this bill, which stems from the agreement we reached last week. It is fantastic in itself that we are now reopening Denmark, that people are coming back to work, that it is We have guidelines and hand alcohol and protective equipment, and what I know is that it is too far, the vast majority of Danes are safe to return to work, but of course, although it is safe for most people, we must also have a look for those who are particularly vulnerable and are at risk and who certainly must not be infected with corona. That is why it makes sense for them to be guaranteed an income and not forced into work where they run a health risk. That is sensible, but I also think we need to look at it temporarily and it needs to be delineated and back and forth, but the agreement has a balanced nature and we support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519135049	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519135057	Thank you. In the alternative, of course, we also support the proposal. I'm a little sorry it's gonna take so long to get it through. I think there are many who have been under strong pressure if you are vulnerable to corona and you feel compelled to go to work and have to choose between your work and your health, or if you have relatives at home that you are afraid to infect because there is the corona virus at your work. In fact, I believe that there are a great many people who have been under great pressure, and that is why, in the alternative, we are, of course, very happy to vote in favour of it being resolved now, so that you do not have to go to work if it is the case that you yourself are vulnerable or have vulnerable relatives at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519135141	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519135151	Thank you very much to all the parliamentary rapporteurs for their comments. Like many speakers here, I am both proud and happy that we in Denmark can make such broad agreements on something as important as our most vulnerable families in the labour market. We stand, as several people say, in the midst of the gradual and controlled reopening of Denmark. More and more Danes must again meet physically at work, but of course there are still people in society who, for health reasons, are in a situation that makes them particularly vulnerable to infection with corona. For those people it is as dangerous to have corona today as it has been all along. That is why I am pleased that we have now found a common solution for those citizens who are at particular risk of infection with corona so that they can stay at home and take care of themselves. It is people who, according to the Danish Health Authority, potentially have an increased risk of a serious illness if they become infected. Of course, they should not feel pressured to go to work and risk becoming seriously ill or quit their jobs in the difficult situation we are in right now and probably will also be standing in the next few months. Similarly, their loved ones should not be insecure by bringing home infection after being at work. The Danish Health Authority's recommendations point to the fact that the vast majority of people at increased risk can participate in work situations if account is taken of the special safety seals, including increased hygiene and distance, and that people at increased risk from the outset do not need to be repositioned in their work or to work from home, even if they are in contact with many people on a daily basis. The same applies to their relatives. But those who risk life and health if they go to work must of course have the opportunity to stay at home. The bill therefore entitles both people at increased risk and their relatives in the household to sickness benefit if their work or workplace cannot be arranged so that they can carry out the work in accordance with the recommendations of the Danish Health Service. At the same time, we grant to employers who pay wages to employees at increased risk or their relatives the right to reimbursement of sickness benefits from the first day of absence. With the bill we are dealing with today, we thus provide support for both the employees at increased risk and for their relatives, so that they can stay home safely from work while Denmark is reopened. I think this is important and I very much welcome the broad political support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519135423	We thank the Minister for Employment. There are no brief comments here either. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519135447	The debate is open. Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519135459	First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for tabling this motion for a resolution on the labelling and registration of cats. There are very many Danes who have cats, and in this way we also have many cats in Denmark, and it is of course important that we have an eye for their welfare and that they live in as good conditions as possible. The resolution requires the government to introduce compulsory labelling and registration of cats before 12 weeks of age for animal welfare reasons. As is also mentioned in the proposal, we already have rules in Denmark on the labelling and registration of certain other species, including, among other things: dogs. The rules for the marking and registration of dogs are due to the fact that there may be a need to impose liability on the dog owner for damage caused by a dog. It is therefore important to be able to identify the dog's owner. The same need to be able to impose liability is not found in cat owners, because cats are not in the same way as dogs are injurers. In addition, we have rules for the labelling of our production animals, and this is primarily due to the fact that it is necessary in relation to the detection of infectious diseases in the event of outbreaks of infectious diseases. Moreover, these are largely EU rules, and those concerns and regulatory obligations do not apply to the Danish cat population either. In Denmark we have many rules on animal welfare. Although there is no definite law on cats, this does not mean that there are no animal protection rules to be observed when keeping cats. Cats are thus covered by the Animal Protection Act. This means that they must be treated properly and protected in the best possible way against pain, suffering, anxiety, lasting but significant disadvantage. Thus, anyone holding a cat must ensure that the cat is treated with care, including housing, feeding, watering and cared for, taking into account its physiological, behavioural and health needs, in accordance with recognised practical and scientific experience. This also applies even if the cat in question is not labelled. The advantage of marking and registering cats is primarily that the risk of confusing a lost owner cat with a stray cat is minimised and thus also minimized the risk of owner cats being transmitted or killed because they are considered stray. It will therefore be in the interests of the cat owner to arrange for his cat to be tagged and registered if you want to get your lost cat back. Something else, however, is that a large part of Danish cats actually live wildly and therefore do not belong to anyone. A legal requirement for labelling and registration will not affect that group of cats, since no one takes responsibility or ownership of them. Although the price of having a cat tag and registered can be regarded as a modest cost for the individual cat owner, a mandatory scheme will require the public authorities to ensure that its cat is properly registered. Administrative responsibility is thus passed on to the authorities, and this also means that the authorities have to check whether the rules are being complied with, which in many situations will be very difficult, indeed, I would say virtually impossible. In practice, this would mean that if an unmarked cat were found, it would ultimately be up to the police to locate where the unmarked cat belonged and then prove the ownership relationship of one in the household. The government itself is working on a solution to address the relevant issue raised by the Danish People's Party. Because there are a lot of cats on our animal shelters, and that is a problem with the lack of ownership. Therefore, the government recommends that we set up an incentive scheme for the labelling of cats, which would mean that a cat owner is granted ownership rights only to a lost cat if the cat is labelled and registered. If we make such a scheme, it will mean that the labelling of cats will continue to be voluntary, but that labelling will have a crucial impact on the ownership rights of runaway cats. This will ensure that the work of the internationals is made more effective, since a possible owner can be identified more quickly without the same unnecessary administrative burdens that the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution would entail. Unmarked cats will be able to communicate more quickly with the proposal as opposed to today than is the case today. Against this background, the government considers that there is no need to introduce legislation on mandatory labelling and registration of cats in Denmark. The problem of internationals can be resolved on a voluntary basis, and the government believes that it should be the owner's desire to keep his cat rather than the fear of punishment that should motivate to mark and record. Against this background, the government rejects the resolution, but, as I said, we would like to continue working on the important issue that has been raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140103	There is a brief comment on Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140105	Thank you. I can see from the latest press throughout the night and this morning that, unfortunately, the Minister and the government will not support the proposal. I am truly sorry because I think this proposal is needed and I do not really like the Minister's explanations. I mean, they're not registered, they're the unwanted ones. There are no problems with the responsible cat owners, at all. But it is not registered that is unwanted, and it is those I would like to bring into the fold for the benefit of the cats, but certainly also for the benefit of the many internationals who are so much in trouble because cats are just being handed in there and they are so overburdened. When I started going through this material, I was really surprised at how many cats are actually just there without having an owner. I must ask the Minister to provide some more evidence that this is a bad proposal which the government cannot simply endorse.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140206	Thank you for your comment. As I said, I'm quite clear that we have this problem out in the shelters. What I have also said is that this proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party does not change the situation of wild cats. We are simply not going to solve that with what the Danish People's Party is proposing. What we would like to achieve is that there are even more Danes who get the label and register their cats. Fortunately, there are 75 per cent of them. by the cat owners • those we know about, i.e. the owners of the cats who live in homes which already do. So how do we get the last 25 percent? And make them do the same? That is where the government believes that if we create a legal state in which a cat owner does not have the right to have his cat back, if it has been lost and lodged in an shelter, unless the cat is marked. I think that will affect a lot of cat owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140303	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140307	These aren't wild cats I'm talking about. Well, the Minister should not derail the discussion. It's actually the socialized cats that's gone away from home. There is only one remedy for me, and that is that it will be compulsory. I simply do not believe that the Minister's so-called model will work, and we stand here with a guarantee I think I can say that again in x number of months and years and discuss this again because it has not worked. There I think that today and in the future discussion of the Danish People's Party's proposals, we should do so now and say: we cannot wait any longer. This isn't a new problem. It is an ever-recurring problem, and there are just increasing numbers of cats that are not registered and that are running around burdening themselves, families and internationals alike.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140356	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140357	The government and the Danish People's Party have at least the common goal that we want the last 25% who do not register their cats to do so. We are in complete agreement on this. What I just think is the way to go is to make the owners more accountable to their cats. I myself have been a cat owner, and I am quite sure that I was told that the legal position was that I had no right to have my cat back if I didn't get it marked, then I should make sure that it was tagged. I believe that will work, and that is what I hope we may be able to work together to achieve the result of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140429	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140434	Thank you. I would like to know whether the government and the Minister have any expectation of what will be the effect of introducing such a voluntary labelling system now. And whether the Minister is considering whether there should be an information campaign which should also point out that we should be more responsible when we say yes to having a cat in our home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140455	This is an area where it is difficult to predict what the result will be when we want the last 25%. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go. We'll have to try that. I just think it will have a clear effect on cat owners if they are told that they will lose their right to it if it runs away and if they do not have it registered. But I agree with the rapporteur that we must try to look into what is then necessary in relation to an information campaign and in relation to making owners aware that now is the legal position. So we will then be completely open to discussing, together with NGOs in this area, how to make an extra effort to provide information on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140541	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are embarking on the rapporteur's round. First, it's sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140601	Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin by commending and acknowledging Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party for focusing on the welfare of cats by making this proposal. For there is no doubt that the pressure on the Danish internationals has increased. In a study from the University of Copenhagen it was found that cat uptake has increased by more than 250 per cent. Since 2014. With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party wishes to require the government to introduce compulsory labelling and registration of cats before they are 12 weeks old. It is understandable that we want to find a solution to the problem in the country's international waters, so that the animal welfare of cats does not suffer. As the rules are now, however, cats are covered by the Animal Protection Act. This means that cats, whether marked or not, must be treated properly and properly. The cats are protected under the Animal Protection Act, even if they are not marked. On the other hand, when there is a legal requirement for dogs to be labelled and registered, it is because dog owners can be subject to liability. And here the Minister has clearly explained the difference between cats and dogs in this respect. Social democracy recognises that there is a problem, that there is pressure on the internationals and that it has increased dramatically. And we also recognise that a solution must be found to the problem. But the proposal from the Danish People's Party will hardly have the desired effect. Compulsory labelling and registration of cats will probably instead become an administrative but also a difficult and heavy process, as it requires the authorities to check that the rules are complied with, where in practice the police also need to be involved in order to locate the owner of an unmarked cat. Instead, the Social Democratic Party will respond to the problem by pointing to a solution where cat labelling and registration remain voluntary. The scheme will be incentive-based where the cat owner alone can be granted ownership rights to a lost cat if the cat is registered and labelled. In this way, labelling and registration will be crucial if you as owner want to be able to recover your runaway cat. So we're talking to the owner's love for the animal, and I think that's actually really, really nice. It is also more effective, both in order to ensure that you can get the cat back, but also in relation to ensuring faster dissemination if a cat has run away, compared to the cases today. We do not think there is a need for a compulsory system for the labelling and registration of cats. That is why the Social Democrats do not support the motion for a resolution. On the other hand, we very much agree with the objectives put forward by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party, but we do not agree with the means of achieving this. We are more in favour of an incentive-based structure and voluntaryness. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140917	There is a brief comment on Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519140920	I find it so hard to understand those arguments that then the police have to do that, and that it costs, and I don't know what. What is the difference between dogs and cats in this regard? I would like to hear from the rapporteur about this. And are there any calculations on that, are there any court rulings in relation to dogs? I don't think there is. I certainly haven't heard of it. So I find it very difficult to understand that it should be so much different for cats than it is for dogs. I mean, it's because for some people I might as well say frankly that a cat is not as worthy of recognition as a dog. It certainly is for me, and I think it is for real, a lot of people. And I just think we should have done it politically and say that the cat is also a pet, a family animal and an animal to be cared for just like a dog. So I find it so hard to see the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141007	Well, thank you so much. I would like to start by saying that I have tremendous respect for the fact that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party have tabled this resolution because, of course, cats are pets. There are people who like their cats very much. Cats must be treated properly, they must be treated dignifiedly and they must be treated respectfully. In reply to the question, I would like to ask a question: what does labelling really help a stray cat? We know that there are many more stray cats than there are, for example. dogs. I think that the resources of the police are much better spent on, for example. chasing gang criminals, chasing borderwalkers, chasing criminals, rather than using their resources to look for a cat's owner when they find a stray cat that's not chiped. What this is about for us is that the last 25%. We need to have the promise in relation to the registration of cats, and there I believe that guidance and an increased incentive structure can help lift the latter. I have also heard stories about, for example. Insets that have not been marked because the owner thinks that they never run out but still run out. And if you know that you don't get your cat back from the shelter, I actually think that the owner who really cares about his cat will also use the extra cost to label his cat; I think that's a good arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141120	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141123	Well, the fact that it may surprise someone that they are running out means, of course, that they must be registered. And what does counsel do when it comes to getting an incentive? Well, if you have a cat and you say it doesn't run out, so you don't have to, I liked to know what the instructions mean. Frankly, I recognise that we have a soft tone in this debate and that there is such great respect, and how good it is with the Danish People's Party that has put it here, but when it comes to pointing out that then the police have greater resources for gang crime and to find out that no one is running across the border, that is far out of the question. Well, that's where I think we should keep things separate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141201	Well, we can do that for my sake, that is why there is a challenge, as I also started my speech by saying, in that today there are a lot of cats coming into the shelters and they have to be shown for about three days on the Internet, and that gives an administrative hump. And I think it gives the internationals a lot, much more scope to be able to expedite the cat if it turns out that the cat is not registered. This will provide an increased incentive for more people to register their cat, which means that a runaway cat can be found much more quickly by its owner. However, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, we also have to deal with the facts, and that is that if a compulsory system is introduced, the authorities must go over, and that is to say the police, and there are some resources that you then move from somewhere else. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141242	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141254	Thank you. A cat is a lovely animal. Many have cats as pets and have extremely great pleasure and pleasure, and that is very good. Therefore, it is also perfectly understandable that many are very concerned about what the framework is like for your cat, although the situations are very different. Most cats, as you know, are also good at catching mice and are good in others, I had almost said vermin situations. So the approach to keeping the cat is very different from situation to situation. As you know, in the Left we pay tribute to freedom, and when we see here that the proposers want to introduce a compulsory labelling scheme to register cats, we in the Left are reacting so that it is still our position in the Left that it should be voluntary to label and register their cats. After all, an opportunity is already being worked out to adjust and update the existing rules so that registration and labelling can continue to be a voluntary scheme, but so that the possibilities are still there. An adjustment of the rules is being worked out so that the cat owner is only granted ownership rights to a lost cat if the cat is labelled and registered in a so-called cat register, and this means that marking and registration will continue to be voluntary according to that model. We support this in the Left and we are working together to try to put it in place so that the processes of runaway cats coming to the internationals can be improved so that they can also move forward quickly. Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141436	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141455	Since SF's usual cat rapporteur could not be present because of negotiations in the Ministry of Business, we looked around the group, and as a long-standing cat owner I was given the assignment, and together with my spin doctor we made the speech. We see an explosive increase in the number of international cats as far as we can see, it is even an increase of 40%. compared to the previous year. After all, the animals' protection also received considerably more cats than ever before in 2019. We are apparently talking about as much as 9,000 incoming cats, and we also feel that we in the SF need to deal with that. That is why the SF is in favour of the motion for a resolution as a starting point. We have some doubts as to which way we will end up walking. One could be as in the proposal, that is, compulsory labelling of all cats, but there we can see that this is a relatively expensive solution, which will also require a number of checks • who will carry them out, and what will be the price? But before we reject it, we would like to have it examined in more detail in committee, in other words how much it could cost and who would stand for it. Another way to go is to say that if an owner wants ownership of his cat, he must make sure he gets it marked, and if that does not happen, he loses the right to the cat. We are in a balance between the two, and we are not quite clear yet, but as a starting point we are positive about finding one of the two roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141623	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141628	Yes, but we'll take it then in committee. I think that's quite fine, because I might also be interested in getting an estimate of what this is going to cost. No one knows that; despite repeated questions, no one knows. And that's just the kind of thing you throw out. You stick to the fact that the police have plenty to do, yes, they do, but they also do with other things that may not be as important as gang conflicts, border surveillance, etc. But let's stick to this. It's probably expensive. It is simply incredible with the path that this proposal has taken, because it has been delayed, because we put it before the corona crisis, and then there was much else to do, and now it is on today. But we will take it in committee, and I will of course thank you for the goodwill of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141716	But these are the same considerations that we share, as Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141719	And there is no follow-up question, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141730	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for making the proposal because it is clear that we have a problem with too many cats that are not being taken care of. And regardless of whether this resolution ends up being the Minister's voluntary scheme, or it becomes the compulsory scheme of the Danish People's Party, the day after something has been decided, there will still be a lot of cats that are not dealt with enough and that are not labelled and have not been neutralized and have not been vaccinated. I think we could use the opportunity here to take part in a debate about the fact that when you choose to say yes to having a cat in your home, you take responsibility for animals and that this should lead to the best way of dealing with the animal. And I think that we should come to the conclusion that far more cats are labelled, and if it is the case that you have to go to a veterinarian and have tagged your cat, then it might as well be that you are concerned about whether it should be vaccinated and whether it should be neutralised. So I actually think that if we came to the conclusion that there was a greater responsibility about keeping a cat, it would have a positive effect, no matter what we had to decide in here. I tend most to test the Minister's acceptance of such a voluntary scheme, and then you can take it up after a few years, because the Minister could not say what the effect is of making such a voluntary scheme for more labelling. And that seems to me to be the best thing at first. We recognise that there is a major problem with the number of cats that are not taken care of and would very much like to help find a solution that can also ensure better lives for all those cats that are not being taken care of and that people are not responsible enough about. So we lean mostly on the Minister's voluntary scheme, but I think it is essential that there is also an information effort so that it is taken more seriously to say yes to having a cat.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141950	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519141953	I have to say to Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that the neutralization has in fact also been in my mind. We didn't include that in this. However, I believe, on an equal footing with the rapporteur, that if there is compulsory registration with the veterinarian, then it can actually be agreed that at the same time it will be neutralized at a reasonable price for the person who has the cat. And then we hit two birds with one stone, because then we get even fewer cats just giving birth to kittens, I don't know how many times a year, at a very young age. But the rapporteur knows the whole problem. So I can very much agree that it could be a positive side effect of this proposal, and I understand that we there agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519142034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519142035	Thank you. I understand the problem, because in my family we chose to accept such a cat that did not have a home, and it turned out that it was pregnant, and before we could have it neutralized, it got four kittens that were then taken care of. Now they've all got ear tags and been neutralized. I have had these problems close to life and also know that veterinarians can give discounts if it is the case that you have to have more things handled at the same time. I have sympathy for the proposal, but I tend to believe that it will be the Minister's model that we try to do first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519142113	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519142122	Thank you for that, President. In the Conservative People's Party we have sympathy for the proposal, B 111, but we just see a number of problems in implementing it. Therefore, I would like to say that the Minister and the Government's proposal that the animal shelters should be given a quick opportunity to move the cats forward and not have the pressure that they have today, which makes it very difficult for them to deal with, we in the Conservative People's Party will be able to support so that we can try to see what that gives of development. What is really at stake here is that today we have two registration options, and about 75%. of the family cats are registered, and then we have 25% that aren't. After all, the art is to get the number of registered people up, and it could be an opportunity to get it raised. Another thing is that we have the stray cats. None of us know how many it is. If you go in and read about it, there are some who say that it is 500,000 and others say that it is 400,000, but in any case we must say that we do not catch the stray cats by means of compulsory registration. Finally, there is the fact that cats are already covered by the Animal Protection Act, so it is not the case that cats are not covered by any law. It is clear that cats must be treated with care and care and so on. etc. Then, if we make a compulsory scheme, we will once again get the public involved in an area and have some administrative responsibility imposed on them. And then you can finally ask, who's going to enforce this? Yes, at the end of the day it will be the police who have to enforce it, and we do not know what the enormous administrative responsibilities that are imposed here will entail, and I therefore do not want to guess how much the bill will be, but there is no doubt that there will be a cost to be paid by anyone. That is why, in the Conservative People's Party, we say no to a compulsory system, that is to say, B 111, but we agree with the Minister's proposal for a system which has now been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519142400	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519142403	No, there won't be an increased cost to anyone. There isn't. Of course, the police have to deal with the cases that we pass in here. This is the case in a community governed by the law, and the police must intervene in those cases, just as they do in relation to dogs where there is an overrun. But it's the owner who's gonna pay for it. So that's why it's bullshit that there's a cost to this. We can then put all legislation on justice policy and other things under it and say: well, that is a cost to the police; we simply cannot allow that. Yeah, it's for the police. But this registration is the owner alone. So what the rapporteur says is not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519142444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519142446	It is quite true that it is, of course, the responsibility of the public authorities to enforce the law if we introduce a law on cats. That's the way it is. The problem with this is that the public authorities and the police have no way of taking care of the 500,000 stray cats running around. There's no owner of them. And of those who own cats, there are 75%. Today, who takes good care of their cats. Why should we make a scheme that costs them when they have it under control? What's the art is that we get the 25%. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519142527	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we have come to the next rapporteur, Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519142540	Thank you. When I was little, we had rabbits at my place. We started with two, but they quickly became very many. It was not two females, but a male and a female whom we had obtained, and fortunately we were able to give many of them away to friends and acquaintances who gave them good and loving homes, but we ended up with five rabbits, four females and a castrated male. My parents lived next to a farm where I often went over and bought eggs, and on that farm they had cats. Already early I saw a little red kitten, and I even brought it home. I didn't get to keep it, though. Why? Because my mother already knew that we all had plenty to do with those rabbits, and that's why I went back the heavy walk and returned the kitten. Because it takes a lot to have an animal. It takes time and opportunity to take good care of it, and it requires taking responsibility. I had cats later, first Sascha, which I picked up on a farm. She was neutralized and registered, and then Charlie, also from a farm, and he was also neutralized and registered. Unfortunately, Charlie got run over, actually twice. The last time, unfortunately, we didn't manage to save him. When Charlie died, we got Bella fast. We got her from Inge's Cat Home, and she was therefore already neutralized and registered from the start. I have almost always had animals, and I have had cats for many years now. I have experienced having the cozy and warm experience of having a cat at home, hearing the paws on the floor and the slightly straining mjaven in the morning when they want to be let out. Right now, I'm taking care of my sister's cat, Sputnik, which I think I enjoy as much as the cat does. As I said, I have a very long experience of cats, and I have just a few questions on various aspects of the proposal, but we are fundamentally in favour. I personally would never have a cat that wasn't marked. It is my responsibility as owner to ensure its well-being and to contact me if, for example, it is possible. I'm gonna get hurt. It is my responsibility to get it to the vet or make the heavy decision if it is to be put down. It is a great responsibility to have an animal. It's a big responsibility to have a cat, and you have to be aware of that. That's what I learned from my parents, and that's also what I teach my children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519142845	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519142853	Thank you. I'm acting as a standin for our cat rapporteur, sir. Henrik Dahl, who unfortunately could not be here today, why I have this case. I thought briefly whether I should make myself a little merry and cheerful and swing up to a big talk about the inviolable personal freedom of cats and about the fact that the stray cats are free from the yoke and labelling and registration of the state. I'm sure you could pull that off a little bit on the smile tape. But the truth is that many stray cats live a hard life, and there are more and more cats handed in to the different internationals. There is an increase in the number of cats submitted, and that is also a sign that they are living a hard life. In addition, when cats are not marked and registered, it can also mean that cats who are not straying, who actually have an owner, but who have run away from home, then go and become stray because they cannot find their owner back. So this is really an issue that is relevant to raise, and I also think it is good that the Danish People's Party is taking the initiative. However, we support the government in the process that the government has set up, where it first tries to implement a voluntary scheme before attempting to impose a compulsory scheme, and then we have to evaluate along the way whether animal welfare has improved sufficiently in line with the agreement that the government wants to land. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519143011	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519143023	Yeah, there are some people who can't feed themselves just to get a tiny bit merry about this, and of course you have to have your freedom to do that. I just want to say that the Danish People's Party actually takes it seriously. We think that we owe it to the animals in general and now to the cats that we are discussing here today. For us, it has always been important to have an animal welfare policy. I know exactly that we were the first party to appoint an animal welfare rapporteur in 1995 when we founded the party. Later, other parties have come along. In fact, I think it is very good that animals are more on the agenda. I think they deserve that and it deserves our society because we are a civilised society that also takes care of the animals we have. Whether they are production animals or pets, some of us care that they should be well. I think that is a sound and sensible principle. After all, about one in five households in Denmark keeps a cat. That's a lot. However, it is by no means all cat owners who take their ownership seriously. In fact, one in four cats is neither marked nor registered. It's over 200,000 owner cats. It is therefore an extremely high figure and, as I said, I have been very surprised at how wrong things are after I started working on this proposal and they cannot be traced back to a owner and add to it the thousands of straying straying stray cats. It is not them that this proposal is about, but there is no doubt that Denmark is going to be a bit in the mood. The internationals are left with all the responsibility when this comes in with stray cats and kittens whose fate they have to decide. In 2019 alone, 40 per cent of the animals' shelters were lodged. more cats than the previous year. This is totally untenable because it puts enormous pressure on the resources of the international community in terms of manning, space and economy. We should bear in mind that most internationals do not receive public subsidies for their finances. It is very based on private finances, subsidies, sponsorships, etc. Unlike the cats, we have seen a good track of the dogs, where it has long been mandatory to id-mark and register his dog in the Dog Register. Thus, police and internationals can quickly track down an owner if they receive a hit dog. When we have such good experience with the labelling of the dogs, we actually believe in the Danish People's Party that we should introduce similar rules for the cats. It is time for us to make it compulsory to mark and register our cat, so that responsibility for the cat always ends up with the registered owner instead of with everyone else. We have to note that voluntary labelling schemes and endless calls to cat owners are useless. We must seize the law and impose sanctions on an equal footing with the rules for dog owners. I must therefore stress that the Minister's proposal is therefore too thin. It is simply too thin, and in the worst case it is completely ineffective. I understand that that is something we must address, and we must evaluate it, as we know so many other things that we do not really have the courage to decide right away in this Chamber. But then we have to do it. And I dare say with a punch on the bag that it does not solve the major problems that actually exist. Let's see, but one can at least count on the Danish People's Party to follow this and take it up again. It is, of course, still voluntary, according to what the Minister says, whether you want to mark and register your cat. The only difference is you lose the right to ownership if it runs away. But an unmarked cat is already almost impossible for an international to trace back to an owner, so I find it hard to see the difference. I do not know whether the Minister imagines that today you can just go to a shelter and claim ownership of a projected cat without being able to document it. So it doesn't work that way. The Minister's proposal will only hit those responsible cat owners who are nevertheless prepared to mark and register their cats. If we are to bring with us the last group that is squandering responsible ownership, it must have consequences, just as it has for the dog owners today. I can read in today's newspaper Denmark that the Minister will not make it compulsory to mark and register his cat, just as we do with the dogs. The reason is that dogs can do damage and that their owner bears responsibility. According to the Ministry, this does not apply in the same way to cats. But I guess that's why there's compulsory liability insurance for the dog owners. On the other hand, identification and registration are designed to make ownership visible and trace stray dogs back to home. I would like to repeat in my rapporteur's speech that I think that the idea, if we get this registration, that we can at the same time have a neutralisation, is a good one. This is not the subject of the motion for a resolution. However, I have no doubt that a great many owners, if registering is compulsory, will say to the veterinarian: let us just get a neutralization right away. And then, as I say, it is a positive side effect to prevent so many cats coming just roaming around and so many kittens left to themselves. After all, ID tags and registrations aim to make ownership visible and trace stray dogs back to home. And I understand that the Minister is reluctant to make a labelling system compulsory, because it is feared that our courts are almost like this, with complaints from cat owners who do not want to pay their fines or label their cats. That's why I asked the minister to figure out a lot of convictions that have been going on over the years for the dog owners. The Minister has had two weeks to investigate this, but I have not heard anything yet. I think this is because the problem is very, very small. If we're gonna get these unmarked cats under control, it's gonna have to be done properly. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have tabled this motion for a resolution on compulsory labelling and registration of cats. We know that this model works for the dog owners, so of course it will also work for the cat owners. Then I must thank the animal welfare organizations who have stuck to all the way and supported this proposal; it is the Animal Protection Agency, it is the Animal Protection Agency and it is the Danish Veterinary Association. I think it has helped incredible that they have been around them, and I hope so, and I know that they will continue to be. I cannot help quoting a member of Animal Protection who has written on Twitter today: 11 years, 9 bites and thousands of cats later, so is this what I/we get?~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ And that is not the proposal of the Danish People's Party, it is about what the Minister intends to do. Sigh, I'll say. So I think it is really, really a pity that we cannot go any further today. And I am a little surprised because, as I have also mentioned, the Danish People's Party put forward the proposal B 111 on 27 February 2020. It has been over because we have had the corona crisis, and perhaps it was not just one of the proposals that was going to enter the middle of it all, but we will then take it today, also in view of the fact that it can be voted on before we enter the sitting-free period. But that is the case, and here is the proposal. I've only seen in the press what the minister wants to bring. There is no proposal yet. Whether there is a proposal we must see and we must see what it will involve or whether it will just be such a recommendation to the cat owners in relation to what they are going to do. But this isn't gonna die, I can say hello to the Minister. So we take it up again when we see how it all develops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519143857	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for her rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment, Mr President. Anders Kronborg from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519143905	Once again, I would like to thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for raising the debate here in Parliament. It is very good that this has been highlighted. I could not help thinking, as a speech was made by a party leader from the Liberal Alliance, that we will then help put great paw prints into Danish politics. But the humor aside and then the factual. I am here with an article from Weekendavisen, and it is, said in relation to the report, from 24 April, where Professor at the University of Copenhagen Peter Sandøe is among others. Very clever about the welfare of families in relation to family animals, in fact, says that he believes more in the proposal that the Minister will make. That is why my question to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party is because I can confirm that I have been told by the Minister that this proposal will come to the Assembly Hall: will Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party then vote against the improvement that the Minister intends to make, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519144002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519144004	Those were big words, I promise. Well, that's where we'll have to wait and see. Well, I'm excited to see what the minister is bringing. Surely I cannot stand here with a motion for a resolution which is my own and then in relation to something coming in a month or how long it will take, perhaps in the autumn, to say: well then I can vote in favour of the Minister's proposal. Then I have to say that that ironization seems inappropriate to me when it comes to the fact that a party leader from the Liberal Alliance can deal with this proposal. Yes, I am former party chairman, and I am actually also former chairman of the Folketing, and I am very concerned about this proposal. But it really shows how you underestimate this... that you say it's such a silly proposal, and that it's just about cats. I really feel that I think it is a pity that I do not think the questioner can be familiar.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519144049	Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519144051	Then the rapporteur completely misunderstands me, because we are really very concerned about this proposal, and that is also why we have taken a great deal of time for it. And that is also why I actually allow myself to refer to a professor who recommends that the path one goes is the way of the government and not the path proposed by the Danish People's Party. I think that is something that should be listened to. For the Social Democrats, it is about achieving the goal of registering more cats, increasing animal welfare. And when even a professor in Weekendavisen recommends to go the way of the government, I hope that makes an impression on the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519144128	Thank you. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519144129	On me it makes an incredibly great impression that it is these three animal protection associations, Animal Protection, Animal Protection and the Danish Veterinarian Association, plus the internationals, that support this proposal. They are the ones with the problems. And then I'm not as Professor-Fixed as Social Democracy is. I really think it is important that they are the ones who are sitting in the box with their hands in the box and who know what this is all about. I think that is very, very important... not so that I turn aside everything else. Then there are also some animal protection associations with which I understand the Minister has spoken and which are not as eager as they were at the beginning, because then it was all animal protection associations that were there, but there are three essential animal protection associations, and I am very happy about that plus the internationals, and they are the ones who have to do with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519144207	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519144224	The debate is open and I would first like to welcome the Minister for Justice if he can take his seat.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519144255	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the SF for submitting the motion for a resolution on the application of disciplinary penalties to be dealt with today by the Folketing. Crime against the rules can have consequences both inside and outside the walls, and thus both in the general criminal justice system and in the granting of disciplinary penalties. Inappropriate conduct during an incarceration in prison or incarceration can therefore give rise, where appropriate, to disciplinary punishment for the inmate and, in other words, to recognition of what we call an administrative ponal reaction to inmates who are not allowed to behave. The aim of imposing disciplinary sanctions is to create peace and order in prisons and detention houses and to change the behaviour of the inmates. Finally, there is the fundamental point: if you violate the common rules of the game that we have, it has consequences. In accordance with the rules in force, warnings may be used, fines may be applied and penalties may be used as disciplinary penalties. The disciplinary penalty shall be determined in the light of the nature and extent of the infringement and there is also a difference between the seriousness of the offences to be dealt with. For example: smoking is prohibited within the criminal services, as is in other public institutions, and therefore inmates must not smoke or have tobacco in their cells. If that happens anyway, it will result in disciplinary action. It may also result in disciplinary action if, for example, the inmate fails or evades his or her employment obligation or if the inmate refuses to give the breath test or urine test. If an inmate in a prison or an incarceration contrary to the rules of a cell phone with him, it typically triggers a 15 - day disciplinary sentence. Penalty means that the inmate is placed in a special department or in his or her own living room and that he or she is excluded from the community of the institution. The prison sentence which the prisoner is serving will not be extended as a result of the execution of the sentence cell. Penalty cell may be used only in respect of the circumstances or procedures laid down in the Penal Code. It is a matter of absence, avoidance, smuggling, possession or consumption of alcohol, drugs or other substances prohibited by ordinary law, and also of situations in which the inmate refuses to give a urine sample, by smuggling or possession of weapons and other dangerous objects, situations of violence or threats of violence against fellow prisoners, personnel or others in the institution, as well as gross vandalism or other serious or often repeated offences. In recent years there has been a sharp increase in the use of disciplinary penalties. This is due, among other things, to the fact that disciplinary penalties have been tightened up in the areas of illegal communication, violence and threats, as well as inappropriate language. Unfortunately, we have also seen the tone of prisons and detention houses harder in recent years, not least because there are more gang members in prisons and, as part of gang package III, it was decided that so-called negatively strong inmates, which are in particular gang members, should be subject to stricter disciplinary penalties when the disciplinary offence can be attributed to the negatively strong behaviour. This has also led to an increase in the number of disciplinary penalties. We need to crack down on those who challenge the security of prisons. We owe this to both the prison staff and the inmates, who can manage to behave properly. It was not many weeks ago that we heard again about an incident in which a gang member had attacked prison staff with a thermos. Unfortunately, this is not the only time it has happened, and that is what I think we all agree on completely unacceptable behaviour. This causes fear and unrest in prisons; of course, it does not work. Criminal services must therefore have effective and up-to-date tools to respond to disciplinary offences. However, it is also important that disciplinary sanctions are seen together with dialogue-based cooperation, which also helps to increase the safety and security of both employees and inmates in the country's prisons and detention houses. As I have previously informed the Danish Parliament, as part of the implementation of the multi-year agreement of the Criminal Welfare Service for 2018-2021, a service has been carried out on the current disciplinary and administrative responses in prisons and detention houses. The purpose of the service inspection, which has been carried out by a selection of practitioners in the Department of Criminal Services, is to see whether the system is experienced up to date and effectively in all the sectors of the Department of Criminal Welfare. In short, whether it works in practice. Without wishing to go into the details of the service inspection today, I can reveal that the Department of Investigation is experiencing challenges with the current system and that there is room for adjustments. We are meeting in the conciliation circle behind the multi-year agreement next week, and I look forward to presenting some of the results and some of the challenges posed by the existing disciplinary system. After all, we have many new faces in the conciliation circle, including myself, and that is why it is my intention that we should first discuss the challenges of the disciplinary penalty system and that we should look later at a possible change in the disciplinary penalty system. It would, of course, be appropriate to build it into the new agreement that we will be entering into next year. Moreover, much of the criticism of the disciplinary system in force is linked to the use of criminal cells. The use of criminal cells is, in my view, a tough one, but in some situations it is also a necessary tool in the field of criminal justice. I believe, moreover, that when we achieve this, we must differentiate the view of whom this type of disciplinary punishment is applied, including gang members and others, so that we do not cut everyone off. At the same time, I recognise that questions have been raised about the health consequences of the use of the prison cell. This requires thorough consideration when we have to turn the buttons in the disciplinary penalty system, and it requires a holistic approach to reverse the relevant issues associated with the system. Even though we are talking today about disciplinary sanctions, we must, for example, do something about it. not forget that security and security in prisons and detention houses are created both by having consequences against disciplinary offences, but also by relational work. That is what we also refer to as dynamic safety. Because I think we owe it to both the criminal services staff and the inmates, who can manage to behave properly, to crack down on, for example. gang members and other inmates who, with their behavior, create fear and unrest. That is why it is important that we work with both kinds of security. In the slightly more general direction, I also think it is important that we ensure that we get a whole person out to the other end, because, regardless of how we turn and turn it, people who have been in prison must one day be released and become part of society again and preferably come back and be able to function in society without giving rise to new crime, and therefore it is also important for the government to focus on re-socialising measures. In order to ensure a holistic approach, I believe that the detailed framework for the future disciplinary penalty system should be established in the context of the forthcoming multi-annual agreement on criminal justice. I can assure everyone that the work on examining the need for possible adjustments to the disciplinary system is in full swing. The views expressed in today's motion for a resolution, which are presented today in the debate, will be taken into account in the further deliberations we are currently considering. Against this background, the government cannot support the resolution, but I hope it is clear to everyone that the approach here is that this is something that needs to be looked at. This is something that needs to be considered in a way that, on the one hand, ensures that security and security can be maintained in prisons, including through a system of penalties, but, on the other hand, also does what we can to ensure that those who have to leave our prisons again, and they all have to be able to return to a normal everyday life. The analysis is under way. We're going to spend time politically finding out. I look forward to that work, which is why I would actually like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for drawing attention to the subject. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145241	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Mr President, first of all, there is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145246	Thank you for your speech to the Minister. I think it is very positive that it is not just being swept away completely, but that there is a recognition that this is actually something to be done about. This is something that the prison staff have expressed, that is, that you have frustrations about having some of this professional judgement taken away, and it minimizes the possibility of relational work, which is important, also because there may be some particular psychological difficulties in getting these punishment cells and that is not something that benefits you in the situation you are in. Nor is there any indication that it should have a deterrent effect. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether any of the points that could be addressed in particular, given the Minister's willingness to respond, could be such as to say that it is probably not such a good idea for children under 18 years of age to be subjected to punishment and isolation. This is one of the things that the Institute for Human Rights and DIGNITY has been out to say, that children are therefore a particularly vulnerable group, and you have to be very careful because they are not benefiting from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145349	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145354	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145356	That's really positive. It's a lovely day. We start by saying that the Minister is responding to both this motion for a resolution from the SF, but also that we have to do something for the children. So I would just like to follow up with the Minister if this is something we will be presenting next week, that is, something about the children or when will there be anything about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145419	I don't think we'll be able to present this next week. I really believe that the approach is the one I was also trying to say in my speech, and it has also been a little the approach to the agreement we hope to be able to embark on soon on about the police and prosecutors' office that we will have a common knowledge base. And once we get it, we're gonna start negotiating how it's gonna be done. But one of the things I was also trying to say is that I think we might have to differentiate. Well, now the questioner pointed to children. There is no doubt, in my world at least, that the reaction to children must be quite different from that to gang members.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145453	Thank you. The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145459	I would also like to thank the Minister for his gracious speech. I am pleased that this is something we will be discussing at next week's meeting. I was almost giving up hope that we would make it within this multi-annual agreement period. After all, it has been three years, you can say where you have had the opportunity to make an evaluation, but it is not all the Minister's fault. What I really want to ask you is the criticism that has come from the Ombudsman, because he has actually been out to say that when you give a penitentiary, there is enormously poor legal certainty. Among other things: there is too little protocol so you cannot see why it is given. So if the Minister does not want to say anything more about the initiatives that lie here, will the Minister at least correct and ensure that the criminal services are properly written about the basis on which they actually provide punishment until we have found a solution here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145558	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145559	I would like to try to maintain the approach that we are enlightened and finding a common knowledge base and that, when we have it, we are trying to act on it. I also think that if we are to be completely honest and it may be that I am talking too loudly that when things are a little complicated now, it is probably because it is one of the areas in the area of criminal justice where we in the broad conciliation circle that is now, everything else just looks at things differently. That is why I believe that work is also needed, in which we will, like others, bend some ends and find out what is factually justified. That is why I think it is better to do it that way than to start trying to tell us where the closet should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145650	Yes, but when I ask, it is because the Ombudsman has been out to say that there is a major problem with legal certainty in it. The Institute for Human Rights and DIGNITY has been out criticizing this for other reasons. There are prison directors who say this doesn't work. I think there is every reason to start acting on it. I would therefore like to ask, if we are now putting aside the conciliation circle on the subject of criminal justice, what exactly is the Minister's position? So, does the Minister think that it is a problem that the prison officers are not allowed to judge today whether they are going to use a disciplinary sentence? And does the Minister think it's a problem that there's no judge looking through this when the use has exploded as much as it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145727	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145729	I think there are a number of situations where it is quite relevant and right to say that here we do not need estimates depending on the nature of the offence and depending on whether it is, for example. are gang-related people who have committed it. I also believe that there are a number of situations where estimates will be relevant. So, unfortunately, I don't think it's good here either that the world is black and white.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145751	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments. The next to be welcomed is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519145810	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for continuing to focus on an issue that is of course important and central, namely our entire criminal services and also the conditions for both employees and inmates. The Minister has explained some of the history, so I do not think that is the basis for repeating too much here. But to me there is the crucial fact that when we look at the crime in Denmark, it is falling over the years, and yet we see an increasing number of inmates in our detention houses and in our prisons. This is partly due to the fact that more and more gang members are serving and serving for longer periods of time. This puts a heavy strain on some of the prisons we have, both for the other inmates and, of course, also for the employees. On top of that there are a number of foreign people who sit and serve and who can be expelled afterwards and whose motivation to participate in a barely tolerable environment in a prison can unfortunately also be limited. This means that there has been pressure, and when we put it on top of that, that there is a capacity challenge, that there is both pressure on the physical environment and pressure on our employees because they run heavily, and because the number of employees has not followed the trend in the number of inmates, indeed, it has created environments that can be tough and stressful, and where we also hear that the employees are being tested, among other things. of some of the gang groups in our prisons. That is why this change was also introduced to accommodate some of the developments we saw in our institutions, where there was therefore increased pressure on our staff. I have no basis for anything but to think that this might have been very sensible, because in reality it has also been able to relieve some of the pressure on employees in relation to making these assessments. After all, we have also had a debate on the status of prison cell and disciplinary penalties in our detention centres, and, fortunately, there is a little more positive development than it is in prisons. I really think that the Minister for Justice has explained very well some of the dilemmas that are here and also that we are, of course, looking at this very seriously. That is why I think it is a good thing that work is now under way to look at the scope, the motives and many of the things that have also been listed in the resolution here, so that we in the conciliation circle can have a good discussion on how things look and whether there is a need for some adjustments. We are, of course, very happy to take part in this and, for the reasons I have listed here, we do not support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150117	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150122	I get a little curious about the fact that this is going to be used to keep order in prisons and that it is, like, necessary because the environment in prisons has become tougher. I do not know where the Socialist rapporteur has the knowledge that this is what brings peace to the prisons, as I know the Prisons Association has been out saying: we do not want this. This damages the relationship with the inmates we can't really work with them and get tranquillity and security. The dynamic security that is very important in a prison is precisely about having relations with the inmates, because you are not attacking someone you have a relationship with, so it also has something to do with the security of the prison officers. So the Prison League says, let's get rid of this. So I get a little curious about where that knowledge comes from, that this is what works. DIGNITY has gathered a number of prison directors from all over the world and also from Denmark who say that this method doesn't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150224	Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150225	I agree, then, that it cannot be isolated to say that this is the only thing that creates calm or a better balance between the employees and the inmates. I don't think you can. My statements are also based on conversations with some of the employees, and I agree with them, and that is also what I hope I was able to say clearly that there are advantages in this, but that there can of course also be challenges in it, and that is why I think it is good that we should have that discussion in the conciliation circle. One of the advantages that it has given us and I was aware of that was also the reason why it was introduced back in 2016 and 2017 is that some of the pressure has been taken from the employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150303	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150306	Does it make the impression that virtually all the other countries with which we compare have abolished this model many years ago, some 30 years ago? In other words, there is a reason why it is abolished here: paragraph 1, because it does not work, and paragraph 2, because it is a really great challenge to health and mental well-being. After all, we have all just been through a coronatide, where we have tried on our own body, what it means not just to be able to have contact with other people, and I think it has come to a lot of people, how difficult it can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150340	Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150341	I fully admit that it is also a great strain on mental health, and of course it makes an impression. That is why it is good that we should now have a debate, including in the conciliation circle. I also have to say that I also believe that some of this is due to the fact that we have been too poor to ensure that capacity could keep up. Both the physical framework and the number of employees have not followed the increase in the number of inmates. It's just to also answer a little wider and say that this is of course not a tool that can stand alone. But, of course, we have a responsibility to ensure that these frameworks are in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150415	There is a brief comment, also from Mr Beazley. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150420	Thank you. I couldn't help but overstep this remark that this is what it takes to put the prisons in order. Of course, we agree that it should be safe to be in prisons, including for employees. That is why I would just like to hear, in relation to some of these initiatives that have led to several uses of long-term punishment cells, which have deprived employees of their professional judgement, whether the rapporteur can point to some employees or experts who can say that this development has led to more order and quiet in prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150453	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150454	I am actually comfortable with the fact that the rapporteur of the Radicals listened to the whole amount of what I said in my rapporteur's speech and not just the small elements. I can't stand here. I just don't have that with me here... pointing to one or the other investigation. But I am taking as a basis what was also used when it was introduced here, as well as the discussions and writings, etc. that have followed, and my own discussions with both employees and inmates.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150522	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150523	But I think that is interesting, because what we are all concerned with is, of course, that there must be order. But if some initiatives have been introduced which have very drastic consequences for a group of people in relation to their psychic well-being and to the professional judgements of employees, but which it cannot be clearly said that neither employees nor experts or studies say have created more order in the prisons, does the rapporteur not see that this is something that we really need to address immediately, with the major consequences of being put into prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150555	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150555-2	We are agreed that we should discuss this. I am well aware that the increase in the number of people placed in prison is not only due to the fact that we changed the rules. This increase is also due to the fact that, for example, there are more gang members in our prisons and that there are other criminals who are tougher in nature and who sit and serve longer. And that means that it is not just the question of changing it here from one person to another, that there has been an increase in the use of punishment cells, and that is why we also have to look at it around the capacity. I have also mentioned that the physical framework is in order and that there are the hands that need to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150634	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519150644	Thank you. In relation to the proposal, I would say that we must, of course, carry out an evaluation. We must carry out an ongoing evaluation and that, as far as I understand, is also what is expected here in the future in the context of the negotiations on the multi-annual agreement. But I am not quite sure that these negotiations will lead to a relaxation of these rules. The fact is, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, that we have had a harder environment, and we have had at least one or two governments that have made it so for the purpose of getting rid of the criminal gang environment. It has, of course, resulted in one in three bikers being in prison today, and yes, it also has the consequences that we have mentioned, namely that, as the Minister of Justice said, there is an attack on the employees. We have seen some horrible examples. I just have to say that in addition to that and it is, as if you forget it here in the Parliament hall, there are also attacks on the inmates. But unlike the employees, the inmates cannot shout; at least they make very unwise shouting. That is why I really have reservations about further studies. Because I simply do not think that any of the inmates will officially tell us what is happening in the Danish prisons, including themselves. This is something that we are able to get the impression of during two-man conversations, but I do not think most people have the opportunity or the desire to imagine what happens between the prisoners. Then I just have to say that then we can recommend to everyone that we should not use punishment and that we should not use punishment cells, but it is probably a secondary discussion of whether we should be punished in this society at all. How's it going without punishment in this community? Yeah, well, then it's the strong one who wins. And how do you think things are going without punishment in prisons? Then I can guarantee that the strong wins even more than it does today. That is why, in the view of the Left, criminal sanctions must be applied in prisons, whether they be warning, fine or penalty cells. May I just say that a penalty cell is what the rest of us would call an exclusive space. Having said that, I would just like to remind you that the Left tightened up the rules in 2016 and that is, of course, one of the reasons why the number of penitentiaries has increased; that is perhaps even the main reason. But anyway, I would actually like to know what else we should do; what we should do to strong prisoners beating around and beating the less powerful prisoners. Should we just leave five and seven equal and then not even operate with any punishment at all? What conditions we could have in the Danish prisons. That is why we have to have sanctions, and the penalty cell is one of the sanctions. Having said that, it is not an isolated purpose to have as many as possible sitting in prison cells in Denmark, and that is why the Left is also prepared to enter into the negotiations on this point in the context of a review of the multiannual agreement. Surely we should have as few people as possible in prison cell, but that must be a consequence of the fact that conditions are acceptable in prisons; that should not be a consequence of our giving up, because we do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519151017	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519151022	I can be quite amazed at whether the rapporteur of the Left has read this proposal at all. The proposal is about giving the prison officers the estimate back, and it is not a question of not punishing attacks on fellow prisoners or on prison officers, because of course we have to. That is why we can easily vote in favour of this proposal, because it has nothing to do with what the rapporteur says and justifies his refusal to do anything about it. Then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur of the Left thinks that it is okay today to give up punishment when you smoke in your cell. It's actually one of the things that brings with it punishment cells. We know that the inmates come in with so many psychological problems that make them smoke, because they sit and calm their nerves, and we lock them up longer and longer because we don't have prison officers to look after them either, and then they have to be locked up for longer, and then they take a smoke in the cell, and then they go to solitary confinement. Is that a fair sanction?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519151123	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519151124	To the last question, it is the sanction, and it has been, ever since we banned smoking in prisons. I know, but I'm not 100% sure, there's also a chance to smoke outside in common areas. I'm not 100% sure about that. But yes, that is the sanction, and that is why you should not smoke, so simple is the case. Then the questioner blames me for misunderstood this agenda. It may well be that I have it, but it is certainly as a consequence of the extensive discussion with the Social Democrat rapporteur, because it concerned precisely the question of whether we should have these disciplinary penalties at all. So I am sorry if I allowed myself to get carried away by that discussion too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519151204	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519151205	This is about giving the estimate back and getting a court to see this through. The Ombudsman has given quite a lot of criticism of this for legal certainty in it, and I was hoping that a lawyer-trained person would understand that, in fact, there might be a need for us to do something more. Can the Left have any objection in principle to the fact that when you use a prison cell, there is in fact also a judge who is making sure that this has now happened according to the book? After all, there is not exactly questioning and other good legal certainty about what is happening in prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519151242	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519151243	Today, if you get more than 7 days, there is already an opportunity to have a judge review it. I understand the suggestion that it should be automatically submitted to a judge, because that is what the proposal says. And I have to say that on other days we blame the courts for working too slowly, but here is an element in which I say there should be nothing automatic, but it must be the case that the inmate in question can have it submitted to a judge in that case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519151313	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519151324	Thank you, President. And thank you to the Socialist People's Party for raising this debate. As I read the proposal, basically three distinct points are put forward. Firstly, the materiality of the matter, the desire to reinstate the estimate by the application of disciplinary sanctions, so as not to automatically be subject to an isolation sanction when possible under the Penal Code. Secondly, a formal change in order not to ask for disciplinary action to be taken before a court, but to do so automatically. And thirdly, an evaluation of whether the amendment to the Penal Code we adopted back in 2016 has now also been as intended. I will allow myself to take things from behind in the sense that evaluations are always a good idea: after some time to be able to look at how things have evolved and whether this reflects the expectation that was there when the rules were adopted and so on. And I think there is no reason to oppose this, and I am convinced that the Minister, knowledgeable as he is, always ensures that the rules that we adopt are constantly evaluated, so that we ensure that objectives and resources are consistently linked. But if we move on to the relationship of automatic justice, then the Socialist People's Party and the Danish People's Party will probably start to drift apart a little. It should not be a holiday experience to be in prison. The idea is that it should be both general and general. In fact, it must be unpleasant, and therefore there must also be conditions other than those we know from the rest of both the criminal and general civil procedure. And when we look at the judicial proceedings to which the proposers have been kind enough to refer themselves, it turns out, in fact, that there has not been a single case before the courts during the given period, 2010-2017, which has led to the subjugation of the use of isolation as disciplinary punishment. Seven cases confirmed the decision and one case was abandoned. At least according to the article in the Legal Affairs Committee to which the authors refer. Therefore, I find it difficult to see any overwhelming argument for reversing the process so that judicial review should be automatic. Not least in the light of what the rapporteur of the Left mentioned about the already heavily burdened courts. Then there's the first relationship about this with the estimate. And there I think there's one argument for me to find, but more I can find against. What speaks against is, of course, the fact that we in the Folketing have set a line, a hard and consistent line, towards those who commit crimes that are violent enough to be put in prison for; to have their freedom robbed. And I don't really think that line needs to be discretionary. It just needs to be complied with. But there is one area, and I say this particularly to the Minister, because he is the one who will have the opportunity to do something about it, where the people I have talked to in the prison world, and it is well to label those who are on the police side, not the inmates saying that there is a very specific problem with the use of many isolations, and that is the manning problem; that is that when you have to have the person who is now in isolation on a single farm trip, it requires a policeman per person. inserted. And that is a resource problem. And now that we are aware of what indicates that we agree to maintain the restrictive and consistent practice we have, we also need to ensure that there is the necessary resources to have the necessary number of prison officers out there to carry out the task. It's just a testimonial that I've gotten from the real world, or rather from the real world, and that I hope the Justice Minister will take with him. In these words, we cannot support the Socialist People's Party's proposals on the basis of an overall assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519151808	Thank you to DF's rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519151858	Thank you for the floor. If you have committed an offence, if the crime is serious enough, you must go to prison, which is decided by the courts. And if you first go to prison, you can get another sentence, a disciplinary penalty. Thus, in the event of a violation of the rules laid down in the Penal Code, it may result in disciplinary action. In the past, it was the prison staff who had to decide on the nature and extent of a given infringement by decision on disciplinary penalties, including the use of the prison cell and its duration. This meant that in the past, the prison staff actively assessed, by means of a concrete estimate, which penalty option would be proportional and by reference to a relationship work also most appropriate in relation to the nature of the infringement. I'm afraid that estimate has been taken away from the prison guards. Solitary punishment is a serious matter. Isolation is defined by inmates spending 22-24 hours of the day alone in a cell without meaningful contact with the outside world. Isolation is the most severe form of sanction one can choose in Denmark, and it can cause anxiety, depression and psychosis. Precisely because it is the most severe form of sanction, there should be the possibility of a wider scope of judicial review than today. That is why we are very pleased that the motion for a resolution proposes that, in cases where there is no possibility of it today, there should be an automatic legal action against all prison sentences over seven days. The political agenda in recent years has been to maximise the use of disciplinary penalties to the detriment of the prison world. This has led to a dramatic increase. Where 7 inmates in 2015 received a disciplinary sentence in solitary confinement for at least 2 weeks, this was the case for 674 in 2018. This is an increase of 9.528 per cent, and it certainly suggests that there has been a very large increase; and compared with the fact that the professional judgement of the officers who are otherwise closest to the inmates has also been minimized, it would be sensible to give them back the profession. It has also been shown so far in today's debate that there is no indication that it should have a positive regulatory effect on the behaviour of the inmates with the increase that has taken place. Earlier this month, the Ombudsman also claimed that legal certainty lags behind in the use of a penalty cell. Before an inmate is arrested, an interrogation is held and an interrogation protocol is drawn up. In several cases, the Ombudsman's visitor team spoke with inmates who had not understood what was going on during their interrogation. They therefore did not know that they were entitled to assistance at the time of the hearing or to appeal against the decision. And at 6 out of 17 surveillance visits, the visitor team recommended increased use of interpreter. In an article in Information on 16 October last year, several experts also argued that it should have suspensory effect if you complain about having a prison cell, because in Denmark you are innocent until proven otherwise. Criticism has also been expressed by the United Nations Committee on Torture in relation to our use of the Penalty Cell. So the Radical Left would like us to stop using punishment cells for children and set a lower limit than is the case today. It could be 14 days instead of the current 28 days. In any case, it is really important to deal with the rules on disciplinary penalties. And that is where we welcome the Minister's positive comments today. We regard today's debate as an initial step in the right direction and in these words we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519152340	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no brief comments. Then we would like to welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519152401	Thank you. Thank you very much to the SF for raising this very, very important question. For in recent years we have seen a marked deterioration in the climate in Danish prisons. This is due to a lack of resources. We're seeing prison officers with single-handed guards in the wards. This is due to the downgrading of resocialisation and, above all, to the overfilling of prisons, because Parliament's legal policy tightens the majority. I think I would say that it has adopted stricter penalties without prioritising and establishing good conditions for the many people who have had to serve for a long time and without prioritising resources that will ensure proper conditions for the people who work in prisons. So they're both inmates and employees. An independent problem is the use of disciplinary penalties, which, by amending the Punishment Act in 2016, removed the estimate of disciplinary penalties and made the penalty compulsory for a number of violations of prison rules. Discipline punishment in prisons is not just punishment with punishment, that is, a punishment targeted at people who are already being punished. It is also a punishment which is not submitted to a court in most cases. Judicial control is an important element of our legal system and disciplinary penalties in prisons are so intrusive that they should be much more subject to the control of the courts. That is why we also need an evaluation of the entire disciplinary penalty area, as proposed in this resolution. The Enhedslisten supports the resolution and calls on the Social Democracy, which is now in government, to return to the team of Danish politics supporting a progressive criminal policy focusing on rehabilitation and dialogue-based security work in prisons. Because we believe that this is what is needed not only to create a better everyday life and a better life for prisoners and staff in prisons, but also to ensure that a greater proportion of the people sentenced to prison get free from crime once they are released and can be re-socialised and serve as good citizens. The sharpening of disciplinary sanctions has taken the opposite direction, and it is time for us to roll them back. That is why I am also pleased to hear that the Minister of Justice is taking the floor and saying that this is something the government wants to take part in looking at. However, I have no doubt that we can wait until the next negotiations on criminal justice. In fact, I think that this is something that we can address right now, and that is why we wholeheartedly support the SF motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519152649	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519152656	Thank you. A few years ago, when we were in government and in the office of the Minister of Justice, we helped to make a multi-year agreement on the economy of the criminal services, and in this connection there was a political desire, including on our part, that more consistent action should be taken against those inmates who did not prove willing to get out of crime and who do not understand how to conform to the rules in prisons, especially after we began to imprison more and more gang members as a result of the various gang packages. A number of explicit tightening of disciplinary measures were introduced for, inter alia: negative behaviour, violence and threats to prison staff, inappropriate language and possession of mobile phones. We Conservatives are very pleased with the tightening up of disciplinary sanctions that were made in this regard. Unfortunately, there are inmates in our prisons who simply do not want to behave properly, and then they must and must learn the hard way, not least for the safety of our prison officers. We need prison officers, and it's a risky job. That is why the security of the prison guards is something we are very, very aware of. Furthermore, we consider it unnecessary to introduce even more bureaucracy into an already under pressure both the judiciary and also the prison system. We are very confident that there is strong evidence when an inmate is sentenced to disciplinary punishment, and I have to say quite frankly that I do not see a need for even more bureaucracy. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party cannot support the SF resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519152856	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519152902	I would say that what the Conservatives call bureaucracy is what we others call legal certainty, but that is something on which we can have a longer discussion. What I am sorry about is that the rapporteur says that we must do this for the safety of the prison guards. The prison union has been out to say: we don't want this, it damages relations with the inmates, it actually damages the security of the prisons. Can the Conservative rapporteur accept that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519152932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519152932-2	The inmates need to feel it the hard way. That's one. The second is that it is also for the benefit of the prison officers. I do not always see that the Prison Association is in sync with the prison officers from whom we get inquiries and talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519152953	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519152953-2	Does that mean you have more faith in the prison directors? Because they say it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519152958	Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519152959	Well, that's not what matters most. What is crucial is that those gang members who cannot behave and who terrorise the prison officers and their fellow prisoners should feel that they are in prison and not on vacation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153016	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Vermund, is to be welcomed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153024	Thank you. Discipline punishment is an important means of maintaining law and order in prisons and detentions. Of course, more gang members and an increasing number of foreigners who do not respect the rules of the country's prisons and detentions increase the need for the use of disciplinary penalties. Those inmates who can abide by the rules deserve a safe everyday life, even if they are in prison, and the staff deserve to be able to go to work without having to fear for life and body. Since New Citizens were a whole new party and we had not yet become eligible for registration, we were round and handing out notes that could be signed on, and then we could become eligible for registration. In one of the places I stood a market I got such an experience that really sat in me. A prison officer • a woman of my own age came over to me with her two teenage children and a man a little in the background, and then she told me about her everyday life as a prisoner. At that time she was short-term sick after an assault in prison, at her place of work, and told about how it had become everyday and had increasingly become everyday. She asked if it wasn't something we could investigate if we came to Parliament and if we wouldn't be kind enough to focus on this, and I promised to carry it with me. I feel that when we have public servants who are subjected to such gross violence as we see among the prison staff, we would never accept it if it were among educators or nurses or schoolteachers, then we owe it to them to take care of them. We owe it to them to listen to them, and we owe it to us to put aside our other policy and perhaps to acknowledge that this aim comes, as there are both gang members, but also foreigners and she specifically mentioned from the Eastern European countries where, as she said, we cannot turn our backs on them without risking our lives. It made an impression, and I promised to take it with me. That is why I and the new citizens take the view that, if the environment in prisons and in prisons is to be replaced, more stringent measures must of course be taken in the interests of the other inmates and employees. Having said that, we think it is actually relevant that we are constantly listening to staff to ensure that the means and opportunities that we have and that we give them are the best means of ensuring order and, of course, if we can do better, we must do so. That is why we support an ongoing evaluation. On the other hand, we cannot support depriving staff of the possibility of sanctioning without the decisions being automatically submitted to a judge if they go beyond the seven days, nor can we support reintroducing the possibility of making an estimate in cases of the application of disciplinary penalties. Our position is that if an inmate does not comply with the rules of the laws and arrests of the country, he or she must feel the consequences of his or her actions. That is why new citizens cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153355	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. It's first Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153358	It is simply because I am just sensitive to the fact that Mrs Pernille Vermund says: we would never accept that violence if it were other professional groups. As I see this proposal, it is precisely because we will not accept that violence when it comes to prison guards either. Exactly the chance to make this estimate is the tool we'd like to give to the prison officers. Actually, that's just what I was just trying to do. This proposal is precisely about the fact that we will not accept the violence taking place in prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153441	Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153442	But there is a premise in it which says that if you get the estimate back, the violence will disappear. I miss a record of that. The evidence we have is obvious: the number of foreigners and the number of gang members in prisons is high and increasing and they have grossly betrayed the environment in prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153510	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153511	Well, by giving the opportunity to make the estimate, you are giving the prison staff the opportunity to use that tool. That's exactly what you do. You actually give them more options for action. It may well be that it would end up in some of the same people who are now in a prison cell doing that too. I'm not supposed to be able to answer that. I'm not a prison officer. That's exactly what I'd like to move. I would like to move it, that it is we who make those decisions that they are taken in prisons. That's why we in the Enhedslist support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153545	Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153546	In fact, I think it is a quite unreasonable burden to place on the staff member who should meet the inmates on a daily basis who are obviously so unscrupulous that they are ready to commit violence, even if they are in prison. In other words, if it is to be up to the discretion of the individual employee, will it make it easier or more difficult for the employee to move safely at his place of work in everyday life? I believe that this will lead to an increased risk. If we now think that there are guidelines that must be observed and that there must be sanctions in relation to them, then we owe it to the political authorities to take responsibility for this and not to assign it to the individual employee, who has to be accountable on a day-to-day basis and who has these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153625	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153626	Now Mrs Pernille Vermund has devoted a great deal of her speech to talking about violence, and that is not just what this proposal is about. It's about giving the prison officers the estimate back. It can be said that if we were to follow the logic of Mrs Pernille Vermund, the last three years would have shown a decrease in the number of acts of violence. They don't. Ergo, this tool doesn't work. I would just like to ask Pernille Vermund about all the other cases, for example. where you go in your cell. You should not, because there are smoking rules, but you are locked up longer and longer, and then it can be a little difficult to stay in the skin when you also have tanks. 40% Our inmates have adhd, so they're having a pretty hard time. So does it make sense to give them an isolation penalty? Does it make sense to remove them from the community and say that now they should not talk to anyone for 14 days when we know that it affects their health?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153728	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153728-2	In relation to the first, I say that I do not see any evidence that the purpose of prisons is due to the removal of estimates. On the other hand, I can see a lot of evidence in the figures that there is an increasing proportion of both gang members and foreigners from some countries who openly have another raw culture in their prisons, inserted into our prisons. So the raison d'être in the prisons is not linked to the removal of estimates. In relation to whether we should be punished for smoking, for example, if we have said that we should not do so in prisons, then I have to say that if there is a political majority who believes that we should not be able to do so in the prison cell, then that must involve a sanction, and we must then be willing to impose that penalty on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153818	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153819	Well, then we got it straight, you might say. I think it may be a bit violent, and I have to challenge Mrs Pernille Vermund's earlier argument that this is not supposed to be the tool to ensure that there is less violence in prisons today. No, it doesn't. Perhaps you can also turn it around a little and say that the inmates are being subjected to more and more rude conditions in prisons, so that they actually become more raw and indifferent, because they still have nothing to lose.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153850	Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153850-2	For the sake of the inmates whom we have not yet secured, I would very much like to see them have clean prisons for foreign citizens and that we could say: here are some other conditions, and you have to leave when you have finished serving your sentence. We are not yet there, and that means that there are Danes who have to be re-socialised in prisons up and down gang members, up and down criminal foreigners who, for some, are going out afterwards. In this light, I believe that both the inmates who can find a way of complying with the rules and the staff who have to take care of them owe it to them to take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153931	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519153942	Thank you. I have never shared the view that I sometimes find in some bourgeois parties and some bourgeois politicians that punishment is good and that more severe penalties are therefore even better than mild penalties. My approach to the issue of criminal sanctions, discipline and the like is that we must do what works in order to prevent as much crime and violence as possible in the long run, because that is after all the end goal. So my approach and that of the Liberal Alliance is not necessarily that disciplinary punishment is something that is good, and we must support it politically if it is not something that increases discipline, so to speak, as it is in the word disciplinary punishment that it should be part of. That is why we would very much like to support the part of the motion for a resolution which deals with carrying out a thorough evaluation of the application of disciplinary penalties, of the reasons for using it, of the extent and impact of it, of course, also in conjunction with the side effects. And we would also like to see whether it would make sense to leave more to staff to decide whether disciplinary punishment is something to be used. So we would very much like to support that part of the motion for a resolution, but the other parts do mean that it should automatically be for a judge and that it should be a discretionary assessment. We cannot support it until there is the thorough evaluation which provides the basis for decision-making on whether it is wise to implement the rest of the motion for a resolution. So if the motion for a resolution wants to divide up the motion for a resolution, we are happy to support the part that concerns evaluation. If the motion for a resolution does not want to divide up the motion for a resolution, then we do not support the motion for a resolution at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519154141	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. There are no brief comments. I would also like to welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519154151	Thank you for the debate and also thank you to the Minister for recognising the issue. I am very pleased about this, and I have a little optimistic hope that sometime in the future we may be able to get the country something that reduces the use of this sanction in prisons, not least because there are so many arguments against its application. Then I would say that many people have also supported an evaluation. I appreciate that, but as I am listening to in the debate, it may be a little difficult to draw on a possible evaluation, but we will have to do so then. It is three years since a court settlement was concluded, and in the three years we have now been waiting for an evaluation of disciplinary penalties. I am glad that the Minister says that we shall then hear more about this at the next meeting, but I can also be a little concerned about the outcome of what a discussion can come to. It sounds difficult if the right can veto changes, and that is why I think it is a little worrying that it will be part of the conciliation agreement, but it is made by a previous government, so it is enough as it is. All in all, however, this means that the current problem, namely that there have been huge and dramatic increases in the little ineffective impact policy, continues every day in our prisons, and that is, despite the fact that the Prison Association has warned that it is destroying safety, that health experts say that it causes psychological damage, that lawyers say that international rules, which we have actually committed ourselves to, say that it should be abolished, and that the prison directors tell us that it does not work. In fact, I think it is time for us to have a wider debate on what kind of prisons we should have in a democratic society. Do we want some prisons that build people up and make them stop their crime so that we avoid the next victim, or do we want some prisons that just keep pouring punishment on and dehumanising people? I think that is a crossroads we stand by. I am not arguing that there should be no consequences if you violate the rules. The punishment is incarcerated, and if you do not want to follow the rules of the prison, there must be a consequence; that is how far we agree. Many people have spoken of violence today: Disciplinary punishment is therefore about a great deal more than violence. Of course, violence against prison officers and co-inmates must be responded to. I do not think there can be any doubt about that, but I also think we need to ask ourselves whether this has not gone a little crazy. So, from 2015, there has been an increase of more than 9,000 per cent. in the use of isolation prisons of more than 14 days. We demand that the inmates be locked up for much longer in their cells today. We do that because we don't have enough prison officers. Then the solution is to lock them in, because then we'll take it off for the prison officers. But a lot of the inmates smoke; about 40%. has adhd, and it's a handicap that makes you have a lot of trouble in your body, and a lot of the people smoke they sit and calm their nerves, and then when they can't get out and get that smoke, it happens that they take you in their cell. Of course, they should not, because there is a smoking ban, and I recognise that there is also a concern to take into account the state of health. I'm just saying that here is a problem that may in fact be a little violent to punish with isolation imprisonment. Does it make sense to solve an addiction problem like that? I'm not quite sure. The same applies to mobile phones. We have worked hard to keep them out of prison, but they are mainly purchased to keep in touch with the family. It is a really great motivation to be able to keep in touch with your family. Why, then, are we not going the other way and trying to find solutions that allow us, for example, to go the other way? can have a better video contact with your family, without compromising security, and without, of course, being abused to make new crime or stalk victims or witnesses or radicalize others? It could also be a solution. Then there is ugly talk about which many of the sanctions are also about. Of course you have to talk to each other properly, but with the environments from which the inmates come, they sometimes have a language and a form of communication, where the one who shouts the loudest is the one who speaks. But why is it that we do not allow the prison officers to assess whether they will give a disciplinary penalty as they could before we tighten up the legislation? They know when a finch goes off their forehead, because the wife just left the kids and no longer bothered, and the frustrations get out of hand, and then you get to say something ugly in pure frustration. They know when to let it pass and when an inmate says something in a pure provocation and which should be sanctioned. Let's give them back the beauty. Let's trust our prison officers. Let's trust them to make these decisions. There should be no doubt that I most certainly saw that we were doing something other than solitary confinement. In 2009 and 2010, the SF tabled two motions for resolutions on which I proposed them, and they were about reducing isolation detention. This actually led to Lene Espersen setting up a working group which looked at isolation in custody, and since then it has been rattled down, and we do not really have that problem anymore. Now we have another problem which concerns isolation detention during the time of atonement itself. I think it is time to tackle it, and the countries around us have actually already stopped some too many, many years ago, and for example. Finland, which still has it, can be maximum. Do this for 10 days. Norway and Sweden have stopped. I know there is no majority in favour of this; there is no majority in favour of phasing it out here, and that is also why I have tried to go another way: by allowing the prison officers to make an estimate, because then we will take into account all the situations of violence and all sorts of other things, but when it comes to making everyday life slip and creating a good relationship, one actually has an opportunity to bend off when it comes to some of the other things. Another thing that I also think we need to look at in this area is that the Ombudsman has had a crippling criticism in relation to exactly disciplinary penalties. He says that legal certainty is really bad in this area, and we have proposed that this should be checked by a judge. Then someone has said that you can already, because you can just ask for that. But no more than the inmates, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen said something about the violence they are being subjected to by other fellow prisoners, just as they do not know that they can bring this to justice, and that is why of course it is not happening. It's happened seven times in 10 years. Then there are others who have said that you have looked through those seven, eight sentences and that there is nothing to come after no, but it is a very, very small section of the total number of disciplinary sentences that is thus being looked through. And the Ombudsman has made his clear judgment: there is a problem with legal certainty in this area. To this must be added all the criticism that has come from many of the organizations: DIGNITY, the Institute of Human Rights has constantly drawn attention to these problems, and the Council of Europe's Committee for the Prevention of Torture has also criticised the use after all visits to Denmark. I think we should act on it; it will not be today, but I hope it will be in the future. I would also like to say to allerallers last time that this proposal cannot, of course, stand alone, because there is also a need for more prison officers out there, there is a need for more social workers, there is a need for more psychologists, there is a need for better treatment that is needed so much more than this proposal out there in our prisons. We know that it is so important for the security of the prison officers that they have enough time for the relationship and also that they can treat that relationship properly, and so the use of the prison cell simply blocks something. You are not attacking someone you really like and who is helping you, and that is why disciplinary sanctions can ultimately stand in the way of being able to take good care of prison safety. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519155044	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519155049	Thank you for that, President. There are things we don't see in the same way, but there could be things in this area where we see the same thing. I would like to ask Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt if we might consider reinstating salaries in education in relation to how we recruit more prison officers. Today, for example, there is a sharp drop in wages. comes from employment and wants to take an education as a prisoner when you have to get back to work or whatever it may be. If you could introduce real wages, which I think you had in the past, it might be easier to recruit, so that we could solve the problem of the lack of staffing. So whether we look the same on whether there should be many or have isolation prisons, maybe it could be an area where we could meet anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519155146	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519155147	I think this is a very good proposal, and it is actually such an interesting proposal for the SF that we have also asked for calculations on it. It is precisely because we think that it would mean that you could recruit more widely, and then you might not only get very young people who may be used to a su, you might also have people who have a little more experience and a little older age to apply to these educations, and we really need that, just as we also need a lot of clarification, why so many prison officers quit every year. We lose 200 prison officers every year, and that means that even if we recruit everything we can keep and clothes, we are always behind in terms of having enough prison officers. So I think we need to do a very thorough analysis of why they fall out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519155235	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519155236	I am glad that we can agree on this, and I really believe that the rapporteur is a little concerned about it himself: why do so many fall out? Yes, it is clear that if you are understaffed, it may be that there is special pressure in the workplace in case of illness or in general, and you are pressured to take more guards than you might actually have the opportunity or desire. So as far as prison officers are concerned, it's a lot about us finding a system so that we can recruit some more. And I very much agree with Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt that it is also a question of getting someone who exudes the natural authority and is used to taking responsibility for authority, and precisely not all honour and respect for young people only quite young people. So thank you for joining us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519155317	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519155318	I think we can find common ground here, both on the diet for the students, but also on securing knowledge of what makes our prison officers drop out, because there is a huge labour resource in those who stop and who do not stop because of health problems, because there are a great many who do. So I think that is something we really need to cultivate in the criminal justice conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519155348	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519155419	The debate is open and I would first like to give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519155428	This is indeed an interesting suggestion. The motion for a resolution instructs the government to set up, before the end of this year, a Commission to review all legislation adopted since 11 September 2001, which restricts citizens' freedoms. I am always prepared for a debate on legal certainty and freedoms, on where we as a society are going and where we are going. It is an important and fundamental debate, but I think it is a political debate and not a debate in which a number of experts have to judge what has happened over the past 20 years. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. I think most of us in these weeks and months have become very aware of how much we appreciate the social model we have. In dealing with the covid-19 outbreak, we have had to make difficult political choices that have temporarily and exceptionally limited our individual freedoms. Above all, we have done this to protect the weakest in our society. There has been broad support for this, which shows me that we are able to stand together in difficult but necessary choices. Recent times have really underlined the importance of our living in a safe and free society in Denmark. It is a society that we can be proud of, and it is a society that we must take care of for everything in the world. With the opening remarks, I would like to address what is at the heart of the resolution, namely the legislation aimed at combating terrorism and crime. It is my basic view that the prerequisite for our legal society is that we can ensure the Danes security and freedom. Otherwise, we risk the Danes losing confidence in the rule of law and the cohesion is crumbling. To take some examples of how democracy, freedom and security go hand in hand: if we are to have real freedom of assembly, we must have the courage to gather together in public space, and freedom of expression loses a great deal of its value if we are not protected from abuse, violence and harassment as a result of our statements. A democratic rule of law must support and create the framework for freedom to become a reality for all, and it is not just a question of the fundamental freedoms of the individual. Freedom is not only an individual matter, freedom must also be seen from a social perspective, or in other words: if it is simply the goal to maximize freedom for the individual, one will be able to come or it is not difficult to imagine • in a situation where overall freedom in society breaks relatively quickly. This applies all the more to freedom in a highly developed welfare society such as the Danish one. Our welfare model clearly shows that the role of society is to support real opportunities for all and not just formal opportunities, which in practice are best exploited by those who already have the resources. In this way, the state is in several contexts the prerequisite for citizens to live in freedom and security, and there is no real freedom if there is no security. That is why I believe that, as a society, we have a legitimate interest and, in reality, a duty to protect ourselves from what threatens our open, free democracy and our social model at all. The crime picture is constantly evolving and we need to keep up with developments. In other words, the actions we are taking must always be weighed up against the reality we are facing here and now. This applies, moreover, as a fundamental premise for how we all make policy. We have what we stand for, which is changing over time, and then we have the situation we find ourselves in, and that is reflected in the policy we are implementing. Sometimes that truth may seem somewhat displaced by the media image, but the gang conflicts have not been quarantined while the surrounding society has been shut down. We see new forms of violence and organised gang crime, we see bomb blasts in Copenhagen, we see firefighters and police officers being bothered and attacked in particular areas, we see the terrorist threat, which is quite real. As a society, we must defend ourselves, for example. against anti-democratic forces and gang criminals, which are a fundamental threat to our society and our way of life. The rule of law requires citizens to be able to count on the help of the state if their freedom is threatened by, for example, the death penalty. criminal gangs. The debate on the rule of law and legal certainty are often only about protecting the rights of criminals. It is also important, in fact, that that aspect of the concept of legal certainty should be included, but the law-abiding citizens, in other words those who do not commit crime, also have a fundamental right to expect from society that the criminals will be held accountable for their actions. In other words, it is a precondition for our support for the rule of law that we deliver justice. This is really the most fundamental aspect for me, and I think it is far too little in the debate. It is my clear conviction that we must, of course, act and react, if necessary, with new legislation when faced with new threats. Before we adopt new legislation, it is assessed whether the legislation is within the framework of the Constitution that freedoms are the way they are laid down in our international obligations. In other words, we have a legal framework that forms the foundation of our society, which sets the framework for what we can politically adopt immediately, unless we change that framework. Within this framework, how to balance the wide variety of considerations that are reflected in new initiatives is not a legal but a political issue. The legislation is passed here at Christiansborg, it is passed by you and by me, who together represent the citizens of this country. The initiatives that have been carried out continuously by successive governments have been taken with open eyes and on the basis of assessments that we are within the framework of the Constitution and Denmark's international obligations. Lawyers and other experts, like all citizens of society, can have an attitude, and I welcome their opinions, but the experts cannot determine how the political balance should come about in order to meet the challenges facing society. That is our responsibility, and we cannot and must not abandon it. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. It is my view that the initiatives of recent years generally reflect the fact that we have become better at actually addressing the issues of today's Denmark. This helps to ensure security and freedom in society, and thus ultimately also strengthen our social model and strengthen the rule of law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160201	You're welcome to the Minister of Justice. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160208	Thanks for the speech. After all, it is no secret that the last party of the Minister was in government, where the Minister was also a minister, this committee had examined the Danish counter-terrorism which the later government then chose to eliminate. I just thought it was obvious to ask why some of the measures that have been taken in connection with, among other things, the programme should not now be examined. in writing. - (FR) The fight against terrorism, once the Minister has helped to get it through on a previous occasion. What has changed since the fact that we should not evaluate the measures of a restricted nature which have taken place in recent years and which have been questioned by a great many people? What's changed? Why should we not now say: let us look at it again so that we can be sure of the need for these measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160308	I'm not saying that we should never evaluate. I am just saying that when we take what we stand for and that is different politically, but what I stand for and stand up for is the situation we have faced with with increased terrorist threat, various forms of gang crime, etc., and we make the decisions that we then make, which form the political foundation on which we stand, then I am satisfied with what I see, and therefore it does not need to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160336	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160338	However, in recent years since 2001, a great many people have criticized the fact that it has not been possible to see whether it has had an effect that it has not been possible to see whether it has been necessary, appropriate and proportionate. Then it's just that it would be a good idea to make it clear once with a seven-inch nail. If you feel so sure that the series of measures has been the right one, why not put it under a slightly bigger magnification than before, so that we really make sure that these bets work and that somebody else might not, and then get the lug out into them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160413	Well, that's fundamental, because the criticism is politically determined. After all, it is a matter of opinion, and opinions meet in this forum so that we can find out what we want. There may be different analyses of the situation we are facing, but what we stand up to is what we stand up to, and the decisions we have taken are, after all, a process of political deduction which we do not need to evaluate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160447	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160451	Thank you. This is an interesting discussion because if you had a feeling that politicians were listening to advice and commissions and what else is being set up, then there was almost no need for politicians. But we are here because we have different views on how the goods should be distributed, whether ownership is the right to dispose of their own goods from a citizen's perspective, or whether ownership is the property rights that a socialist, perhaps from the Enhedslisten, evaluates is ownership. Similarly, it may be asked whether our right to gather us together, whether our right to express ourselves has been strengthened or whether it has been reduced in the decades when a large influx of foreigners, who do not enjoy and respect those values, has come here and where today we have problems with the Jewish community living with the conditions under which they live, and assemblies threatened to be shut down as recently as the weekend, when two assemblies had to be interrupted because of violence. That is why I think it would be interesting from a political point of view to hear whether the Minister of Justice believes that the influx of people from Muslim countries and an increase in tax pressure are what should be said about developments that promote our freedom as citizens, or whether it is developments that hamper our freedom as citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160628	The answer to that question requires that we first have to ask ourselves: what is at the heart of freedom? Some might say that the core of freedom is the absence of coercion. But that is a simplistic definition of freedom, because it does not leave the possibility of being able to tell the difference between, for example. formal freedom and real freedom. That means that if you just have your formal freedom, you can do whatever you want, and that's no problem. You can define terror, you can define gang problems... not that bourgeois politicians will do it, not at all... but if you say that as long as you have formal freedom, you're free, then it's my point that as a society we have to protect ourselves from those who threaten our democracy and support freedom for all of us. It must not only be freedom for the individual, but it must be freedom for all of us. Well, maybe it was a bit of a big answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160746	Did I get the floor? I didn't hear that, I'm sorry, but thank you. Yes, it is going to be a bit exciting, and it is also very exciting, and that is where the discussion lies, because the real and formal freedom are two very different sizes. I understand and I acknowledge and I respect formal freedom, but if real freedom is threatened for me and for others, because I cannot walk freely, for Jews, because they cannot practice their religion, because Rasmus Paludan has to say it as it is because he cannot enjoy his right to demonstrate and assemble, then he does not have freedom, so they do not have freedom. And that is why I have to ask: has our freedom on these parameters, that is, real freedom, become greater or less of the influx from Muslim countries, just to keep it concrete?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160844	Well, really, that's my point. These initiatives, which we have taken on terrorist legislation, gang packages, etc. It is really about saying: well, we will insist that there should be real freedom for people in Denmark, and that is why we need to take these initiatives. It is not enough to say that there is then freedom for the individual if freedom in society falls; if it is the case that the individual is free, at the same time means that many others are unfree. Then we will not have a society that has more freedom. That is why I have to say that this debate is extremely relevant and well raised by the Enhedslisten, because this really is one of the interesting debates in my view which must define how we implement our legal policy these years. In other words, whether we believe that formal freedom is enough or whether we insist that real freedom should also be provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160943	Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519160948	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I am glad that the Minister thinks this is an interesting debate. I think so too. That is why I think it would be so sensible to have a commission so that we could discuss it, as it were. In other words, such a commission could provide the basis for taking that discussion, because we often have that discussion in this Chamber on the basis of one or the other bill, but perhaps it was time that I thought that we had a fundamental debate on it here. And there would of course be a good basis for such a commission. If the Minister does not think that it should be a commission doing so, what could the Minister imagine that we took the initiative in order to have that discussion: where are we with our freedoms right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161036	But that's what we're doing now. Right now, we're discussing if we just let go, there will be forces that threaten us in a way that will suppress freedom. This is a very important and relevant discussion. That's what we have now. It is the one that comes under when we have these discussions about different regulations and penalties in relation to terrorism, to gangs and to everything else. It's really this thing about how we protect ourselves. How does society protect itself, how do we protect the weakest in our society? How do we ensure justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161133	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161135	I think we need a bigger and more fundamental discussion of this, because it is true that we are discussing it right now, and we have about an hour for it here in Parliament with the rapporteurs who are now present. In fact, I think we owe it to the Danes that this discussion should be more thorough and that it should be bigger. If there is something this corona situation has also shown us, it is of course that the Danes care a great deal about their freedoms, both when we have discussed an assembly ban and what apps it takes, and what kind of monitoring it takes, and how long the emergency legislation should last. So I actually think we owe it to the Danes to have a more fundamental discussion. We then believe that such a commission here would be a good starting point for taking that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161222	It can't get any bigger. Because it's us who have the power to change it. It is we that the citizens out there have said to: We entrust you with the power to decide how freedom is to be distributed in Denmark, whether you want to optimize it, whether you want to minimize it, whether you want a concept of freedom that is just the absence of coercion, or whether you want to look at it wider. It may harm them,
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161256	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161302	I sit and wait in suspense for the Minister of Justice to lean over the platform and look us all in the eye and say that the more coercion, the more freedom, or something mysterious. If I am going to give some good advice in relation to when the Minister of Justice gets involved in his distinction between formal freedom and real freedom, etc., then I think that some concepts other than freedom need to be used; I think that, for example, one should use the term 'freedom'. must use a concept of security, which is also a very good word, or something like economic opportunities, which is also a very good concept. Because then we'll get rid of this mysterious mess around what freedom really is. Well, freedom is no compulsion. The bird in the woods is free... that's why they say free as the bird... and the bird in a cage is not free. On the other hand, the bird in the cage is safe, and the bird in the woods is not safe, because a bird of prey can come and eat it every moment it has to be. So if we now used concepts such as security and economic opportunities etc., we did not get this strange debate about whether something is more or less free. It's just a friendly advice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161421	But, with all due respect, if you want to dive into what has been written about the concept of freedom over recent years, you just have to get a nanosecond into it, and then you find that you stop defining freedom as the absence of coercion; then you are far, far from talking about it. So, in terms of freedom being defined as the absence of coercion, I would say that there are plenty of situations that you can imagine, where the fact that you have formal freedom, that is, just the absence of coercion, is not at all accompanied by real freedom. One example: Young girls who have been in the city can go home from the city exactly the way they want. They can go wherever they want, because they have formal freedom. Are they doing that, or are they wondering if there are any places where they won't go? If they do the latter, there is a difference between formal freedom and real freedom. If we then want to take that step further to return to a discussion that we have had before, and then you combine it with setting up surveillance, are there some places they will not go where they would not otherwise have gone? And does this increase the monitoring of real freedom? So the discussion has many, many more facets than yes, excuse me for saying that it's a little primitive that freedom is just the absence of coercion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161546	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161548	Yes, but it is intellectual nonsense that leads to talk about the more surveillance you have, for example, the more freedom you have. And then it has to be said that North Korea is the freest society in the world. Of course, the Minister for Justice is absolutely right to think about how one chooses to exploit one's freedom, and if there are areas which, for example, are very insecure because there is a lot of crime, then it is an area that one stays away from. And then you can't take advantage And security is a concept that's very, very important and no doubt about it. But when you mess with freedom, it is that we have these very, very mysterious discussions, which the Minister of Justice has also led.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161631	But security and freedom are also internally linked, as the example shows, and without security there is no freedom, and so these concepts cannot just be separated. You have to deal with them, too, together. I am sorry to say this, because I understand that if you just pay tribute to ordinary liberalism, there is a slight difference between formal freedom and real freedom, but so there is. And we need to have as an ambition to give real freedom, and it gets through when we make terrorist legislation, and it gets through when we make gang laws, and it gets through all sorts of other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161710	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161712	I was very pleased with the comments made by the Minister for Justice on the proposal at the beginning of the speech on the relationship of what is suitable for a Commission assessment. In other words, it is clear that if we all want to try to learn more from a technical point of view, it could be taxation, infrastructure or something that is technical and not attitude-based, then it makes sense to set up a commission which, on the basis of sober considerations, knowledge and so on. analyses and then makes some recommendations where you can then choose from different scenarios. But it's quite different with this area that's at the top of the line. It is quite fair to have a position, whether it be the Enhedslisten, the Left or ours; then you just have to stand at the goal of it. That's how I heard the minister. And I am delighted, but I would just like to ask: how is it that the Minister for Justice is comfortable with a Court of Human Rights, which also makes judgments in the field of attitudes and where the Minister, without any doubt, simply addresses the issue of foreign policy, social policy and so on?? It is also a Commission; it is just a Commission in which the Minister has gone further and accepts that its decisions must be complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161827	However, the second element, or one of the other elements of the debate, which I was also trying to say, is that the framework within which we will carry out our positions and our policy is not free. It is bound by our constitution. Thank God the framework is wide. It is also bound by our international obligations, including, of course, interpretations, which may result from the European Court of Human Rights. And the gods must know that we have also exchanged words about the fact that, in my opinion, the interpretation of both the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights, which is a good activist, sometimes undermines the democratic legitimacy of the borders it lays down. That is why I am also aware that we have also discussed this interpretation-style issue, but it is the foundation on which we play.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161919	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161921	I am glad the Minister says so, but the Minister must necessarily take the consequence of his own introduction. Now, as someone said, we may be in the philosophical corner, but it is difficult to understand how one can oppose a committee in the field of value policy, because value policy must be decided by the Folketing, while at the same time one is in favour of a pseudo-court ruling in the political field. Well, why is the Folketing in one scenario supreme authority, but not in the other scenario? It is difficult, if we are so in the philosophical corner, to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519161957	No, it is not difficult to understand, because we have also been through this many times: that we have a foundation which is the constitution that we share, the Danish constitution, the constitution of the Danish Empire. No one questions that. Moreover, I am very pleased with the interpretation of our own constitution by the Danish courts. In international cooperation I am a strong supporter of international cooperation and believe that we are gaining a lot from it there are courts. What I am critical of is not the international community or the foundation, but the fact that the courts have an interpretation style that changes that foundation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162039	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. I would therefore like to welcome the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162057	Thank you. It turns out to be an interesting debate, which probably very well shows that we can have these debates in Parliament also without having to have a commission. Since the elections, and since my appointment as rapporteur for the law, we have actually taken note of this debate many times: we have discussed surveillance; we have discussed foreign fighters; we have discussed penalties in relation to gangs; we have just discussed the rights of prisoners in our prisons; we have discussed it in depth in the resolution of the Corona crisis; we have just had the Freedom of expression Commission, which we will be spending a lot of time on, including in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and so on. etc. Freedom here is emphasized as the absence of coercion. And that is also true: the freedom not to be subjected to arbitrary exercise of power. But I guess that's right too. I think that without equality there really is no freedom. If there is no equality, then it is only the domination of power that can define freedom without coercion. That is why we are also operating with the negative concept of freedom and now Jan E. Jørgensen is shaking his head and the positive: the right to stand, civil rights, etc. In fact, I think that in the discussions we have had here in the Folketing, compared with the examples I started by mentioning, we often become immensely concerned with the freedoms of those who deny the rights of everyone else. We are concerned about what the rights are for the sex doomed, which we do not want to be subjected to unnecessary control, while the rest of us are concerned about the fact that they do not go out and commit new sexual assaults on new children. We are concerned about the rights of the foreign warrior, whom we do not want to have denied our rights, while the rest of us are discussing whether it is appropriate for us to do what we can to ensure freedom, equality and security in society. That is why, of course, one can argue that we cannot have that discussion without having a Freedom Commission to look at all the legislation since 2001. And there was a wise man this weekend who pointed out to me that, if you paint with the wide brush, you could say in principle that virtually all the legislation we have made in the Danish Parliament since 2001 restricts our freedom. Of course, you can also find examples of the opposite. But I think it's fine that we can have this discussion. I think that what is being proposed here seems very extensive, and that is why the Social Democrats do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162401	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162405	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees that increased access to searches, increased monitoring, logging of private tracks, zone bans and restrictions on the freedom of clothing are helping to deprive citizens who have done nothing, in other words innocent people. Is not the action taken in recent years also something that has gone beyond the freedoms of completely innocent citizens who have done nothing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162441	After all, we have had an example of discussing whether to exercise increased control over people convicted of a sexual offence and, most recently, whether to increase control of foreign fighters and allow the police to follow up on that control without a court order. There has been an argument that we are denying these people's freedoms, and I agree with that. We're restricting their freedom. After all, we do so to ensure freedom and security for all of us. We can then have different perspectives on that discussion. I can learn that we have had that. But for me it is also one of the key markers of how we perceive this discussion. You can roll everything back and make sure that the sex offender and the foreign warrior get more free play. And then I recognise that their freedoms are being respected, but I am also quite sure that the rest of us will lose part of our freedom, security and equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162537	I am very pleased with what the rapporteur said first as his first word: yes, and then it was followed by a number of other words. What is particularly interesting in this is the fact that the restrictions on freedom which have taken place in recent years have affected completely innocent people who have gradually been deprived of freedoms which are otherwise highly valued. Does the rapporteur not think that it would make sense to have it evaluated just now so that we ensure that it is necessary? There is no need to deprive anyone of their freedoms if that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162613	But I don't agree. If the premise here is that when we make legislation on surveillance with television cameras, to which we need a court order in order to gain access, when we make increased control of sex offenders and foreign fighters, when we sharpen the penalties for terrorism and for having explosives, hit the freedoms of all kinds of innocent people, I do not agree. However, I do agree that it restricts the freedoms of the people to whom we wish to restrict them, in order to ensure greater security in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162643	The next is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162648	Thank you. When we in New Citizens are so concerned about solving immigration policy from scratch, it is very much connected with freedom. Because the fact is that a failed policy on foreigners repeatedly puts us in dilemmas, which are about whether we should accept that people cannot live safely with the freedom that the Minister previously referred to as real freedom, or whether we should accept surveillance, control, bulletproof glass, concrete blocks in the streets, etc. The two choices made between pestilence or cholera, I would almost say, we are faced with because we have allowed people to come here who do not respect our freedom and our fundamental values. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that we have been given more freedom or less freedom by the failed migration that has come from Muslim countries for decades?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162758	Well, I agree that we have had a failed integration and also a policy of aliens which has not been appropriate and which has made certain parts of our society less free, because unfortunately we live with the consequences of it. And you can only experience that if you live in some of the areas or come there often, as I do myself. Then it gives some limitations, social control, all sorts of other things that are added. But what we are talking about here is also on the larger record, because the premise that I am not buying is that, for example, we are not going to be able to do so. the fact that surveillance is then carried out in a residential area is a major, major attack on the citizens who live there. In fact, I believe that it contributes to security and to ending some of the consequences of the failed policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162848	I think most citizens, Danes, would prefer to live in an area where there was safe also without surveillance, and I hope and believe that the rapporteur also agrees with me on this. Having said that, I think it is quite appropriate to ask ourselves: would we have had more or less of this kind? Would there have been fewer Koran bricks in the streets, would there have been less bulletproof glass in front of the Jewish synagogue, would there have been less surveillance in the socially disadvantaged areas if a responsible immigration policy had been pursued, compared with the situation we are facing today, and where a party such as the Radical Left was allowed to have a decisive influence in 1983 on an alien policy which we are suffering and suffering ever since?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519162938	In other words, if you look at our statistics, you can see that among those who commit crime in Denmark there is an over-representation of people who come here with a different ethnic origin than Danish. It's just factual. Is it the case that there had been no gang crime or bicker crime or drug crime or anything else if we had not had an immigration to Denmark? It's gonna be a little counterproductive, but I don't think so. I still think it had existed, and I still think it had been a problem, and I think it had still been done, that we had had to legislate on gang packages and monitoring and other things in order to deal with that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519163011	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no more brief comments. And then I would like to welcome Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519163023	Thank you. One does not really need to have listened to this debate long enough to find out why the proposal for a Freedom Commission cannot be done, because we cannot even agree on what freedom is and that is why it is going to be difficult. We had a debate on the proposal in the Confederal Group of the European United Left, and after the debate I was able to conclude that I had to go to the Chamber with two messages: I had to say something nice about freedom, and then I had to say something ugly about the Enhedslisten. Both seem to me to be easy and natural. However, if I am going to try a little seriously, I would say that there is no doubt that it is a question of finding a balance in a society. A society with absolute freedom is a society, not many will want to live in, and a society with absolute equality is also a society, no one wants to live in • Perhaps with some exceptions • and a society where we are all 100 percent safe, just take the debate on corona at the moment, is not a society we want to live in. So we need to find some balances. Have we hit those balances correctly? No, of course we don't. That's why we're sitting here. If we had struck the balance correctly and had found the perfect balance between freedom and security and equality and brotherhood and the other beautiful concepts, we could go home and spend the rest of our lives on summer holidays. There will always be new challenges that will make us discuss where the cut should lie. There are new threats that make us compromise on some freedoms in order to achieve some security. So have we gone too far in compromise with the freedoms in return for the security we have been given, how much security it has given and so on.? This is an ongoing discussion that we must continue to have in this Chamber with each other. This is not something we can put on a commission. A Commission that has to review all legislation adopted since 11 September 2001, which has limited citizens' freedoms, will certainly have to go through a lot of legislation, and legislation is something that is almost per year. definition restricts freedoms. Virtually no matter what we pass in here, it means that there is something we must not, or something we must do, something that restricts freedom; tax limits freedom, but that is why we think it is reasonable to pay some tax anyway, because we want a welfare society. So I can hardly see where to start, nor can I really see where to end, but I can at least say that all the talk about such a commission, if it is to live up to what the proposers point out to it, should be able to deliver a job within the budget framework of the Ministry of Justice, is totally unrealistic and that, moreover, it should be a relatively fast-working commission, I must say, naive. I know what the purpose is, because hope is that the Enhedslisten can have some commission that can confirm the Enhedslisten in some of the Enhedslisten's views, and then you don't just have your mandates in the back, you also have a commission, so you can stand and say: Now you have to do it because it says in this Commission report that you have adopted some legislation that has gone too far, and that is why you have to roll it back. But democracy does not work that way. I can have a great deal of respect and understanding for the dilemmas highlighted by Enhedslisten with its proposal, and we could probably also agree on a great many concrete individual things. I have no doubt about that at all. But to think that a commission is the answer is naive, and when we cannot even agree to define the concept of freedom, I would say that then it has a rather long prospect of agreeing to have to write a mandate for a Freedom Commission. So thank you for the suggestion, but nicely no thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519163450	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519163456	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish Liberal Party. The right of ownership is for me and for New Citizens one of our most important freedoms. The right to preserve the fruits of your own work, the right to have property at all is important. The left was once a few days ago, and it was not so long ago that a party thought that we had too much tax and too much tax in Denmark and that the tax was going down. It's been a long time since I've heard that I've heard something more about the fact that now we're going to have a tax stop. I have to assume that that means that the tax should certainly not increase. I would like to know whether the Liberal Party of Denmark and the rapporteur believe that a tax freeze is enough to preserve the very special right of freedom that we have in Denmark, namely ownership.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519163556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519163559	I think this is a really good question, and it also illustrates the problems that would result from such a freedom commission. I do not think that Enhedslisten is planning that the work should result in the commission coming and criticizing the tax burden for being too high. That would surprise me a lot. Because I think Enhedslisten thinks: the more tax, the better, because then we get a lot of opportunities and can hire some nurses and give them more pay, etc. But it is, of course, a restriction on the freedom to spend the money that you have earned in your face sweat and all this, in the way you now find the most correct. So there are already some differences between being liberal and being a socialist. It would also be sad if we agreed on everything and then we could also go home and have a summer vacation. But to answer the question, I would say: No, the Left would like the tax to be reduced. We have, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I do not think one can point to a single tax or tax that the Left believes is too high or too low, I believe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519163702	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519163705	That's interesting, because it's not so long ago that it feels like it's been a long time, because it was before the corona that thanks to a proposal from among others. Left and another nominally bourgeois party, the Conservative People's Party, could see how there was a majority in favour of raising taxes on cigarettes. There were also some comments on the Finance Act negotiated in the autumn, which overall meant that the tax burden on the Danes was increased. But if the intention in the Left is now that after the corona you want not only a tax freeze but tax cuts, then I will take it from here as a happy news.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519163753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519163756	It was actually quite fortunate that I was able to say too loud and too low, because the cigarette tax is just one example of how we in the Left believe that a tax should be raised and should also be raised considerably. And that is because we believe in financial incentives more than we believe in penalties and prohibitions. So you could also go that way, ban cigarettes and put in a lot of police to investigate people who had cigarettes smuggled in and so on, and gave some people some fines and so on. to smoke, but we don't want to smoke. But if we increase the price of a pack of cigarettes, we get fewer people to smoke. It's such a very basic, logical supply-demand-thinking. And that is why we proposed that cigarette taxes should be increased, in other words because there was another concern: public health, which in this case goes in and trumps the price and the tax on cigarettes. And it is true that the more tax there is on cigarettes, the less people have the freedom to spend their money on what they want in the specific example of cigarettes, but there is only one consideration that weighs heavier: public health and a relatively liberal and flexible way of getting people to smoke less.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519163910	It is not for the President to interfere in how high or low the tax should be, at least not in this debate. However, I have a task to do, namely to say that there is a maximum level of speaking time, and another issue goes up to one minute every time in this debate. I have plenty of time, but we have a rule: first question 1 minute, first answer 1 minute, second question 1⁄2 minute, second answer 1⁄2 minute. I would like to appeal to us to try to keep it. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519163942	Freedom Commission: That word alone I had hoped that the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, would have Christmas lights in their eyes. That is why I would just like to ask whether there could not be anything that allowed us to set up a Freedom Commission. I understand that this is perhaps a little bit of legislation the rapporteur thinks we should go through. However, it is to say that we have now had to adopt a Freedom Commission, and could we then focus on some of the particularly anti-freedom measures that have been in place since 2001? Could it be targeted more? Could something be done to help us set this up and to check once again whether it has now been necessary to take the rights of completely innocent people who have not done anything that has been appropriate, has it been proportionate? But, of course, what works must be maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164044	But at first there were certainly things that crept in me, and where I thought: That sounds really exciting and then the purchase from Enhedslisten, that was amazing, and let's take a look at it. But the more I have thought about it and the more I have discussed it with others, the more unrealistic I find it that such a commission will achieve anything. However, it is not the same as not being able to go in and evaluate the legislation we have made. We believe that, to a much greater extent, sunset clauses should be used when we are doing something completely new, so that we have an opportunity to evaluate: did the law work according to its intentions yes or no? But we do not believe in a Freedom Commission that is going through this very large area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164126	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164128	I find it exciting that the Left will help us to introduce sunset clauses into more legislation. There I would just like to ask the Left whether this means that from now on, every time we have some legislation that takes some human rights, radicals would at least like to shake hands with it today that we are saying that all of this is something we should have sunset clauses in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164153	I can't promise, but let me just give you an example. Much of the corona legislation we have made, such as the epidemic law, has been born with a relatively short sunset clause. It is actually a little fun to see that the party that is most concerned about giving us Danes our freedom back is Enhedslisten, who has put forward this proposal for a Freedom Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164211	That brings us to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164217	Thank you. I'm just gonna start by calming down Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen. When the Left says something ugly about the Enhedslisten, we take it almost as a compliment, especially after the Left in these coronatides has almost taken over our policy of state aid for one and the other. This is simply unbelievable. That is why I had hoped, now that it can be seen that the Left has, after all, taken over some of our policy, that this resolution would be supported in the Left. I hear sir. Jan E. Jørgensen says that all legislation in one way or another is an encroachment on our freedoms. - Sir, you can. Mr Jørgensen may well be right, and that is precisely why the motion for a resolution states that this is the balance we would like the Commission to look at. I really had hoped that the Left would be able to support this, now that we have been such frightening good friends, I would say, lately, in relation to who should have State aid and what the state aid should do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164316	It is true that the proposal says that it is about balance, and what you are talking about is whether unnecessary, inappropriate or inproper interference has been made with freedoms. So it is not the case that freedom cannot be curtailed, and I am glad that we agree on this, but it must always be proportional and we must not restrict freedom more than is absolutely necessary. We are quite in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164344	That is why we could make this point by implementing the creation of such a commission. After all, we do not want this Commission because we have decided in advance what it should come up with, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen indicated. That is precisely because we want the debate, which I fully agree with is political. But we would like a basis to discuss it on the basis of which we have the same basis. Quite a lot of legislation has been made since 2001, which restricts freedoms. That is not just something we conclude in the Enhedslisten; that is what they conclude in the Freedom of Freedom Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164418	I agree, and I also agree, that the Enhedslisten is a party that has never ever sat in government and probably never will. That is why one can also say that whatever this Commission might achieve, one is quite certain that it will not be a criticism of a government of which Enhedslisten was a member. It's kind of self-sustaining.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164435	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164438	I would like to continue with the very exciting, elaborant thought that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen began with earlier, about the bird in the woods and what freedom really is. And maybe sir can. Jan E. Jørgensen also put a kind of marker between freedom on the one hand and security on the other, which is the opposite of this debate. As Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen himself said, there is no one who wants the completely free society, for it would be like living on the savannah, where one dares not close one's eyes. Whether it is the lion who comes, or the treasure vultures, or whoever it is, there has to be a basic security. Sometimes it can be difficult to find out where the desire for security of liberals really lies. Could Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen on such an axis, where we have freedom on the one hand and security on the other, try to set and something like that mark where he is?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164540	I just can't. I can't. I don't think anyone can. In other words, it is a tempting idea that one could place oneself in different areas, but that depends on what we are talking about. But let's just take things like the corona crisis right now. For there is no doubt that what would be safest would of course be the total lockdown, where everyone stayed at home in their own apartment and stayed in separate rooms and did not see any people. Then we wouldn't go out to get infected, and then we wouldn't get sick. But it is not a society we want to live in for a very long time. So here, too, there's a balance. I also think very strongly that this may be linked not only to one's political convictions, but also where one might be in life, how one feels personally, i.e. how much security one needs. Do you not think most young people are more freedom-hungry and less concerned about their security, and then it changes a little when we get older? It's an exciting thought experiment, but I'm afraid I can't get any closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164653	I think the rapporteur is quite right in saying that the less life experience you have, the more freedom you pay tribute to, because you may not have quite experienced what the consequences of full freedom may be. But above all, I welcome the emphasis on the concrete, because it is precisely the right answer that the balance must depend entirely on the circumstances, that is, on the way in which society is viewed. However, does the rapporteur also agree with me that, in this light, ideological approaches to such issues are incredibly uncomfortable, because they often end up locked in a way that deprives decision-makers of the opportunity to be concrete?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164735	No, I don't agree with that. In other words, I believe that ideology and the value of personal freedom are important as a starting point in any debate. If you are not aware that you are in the process of restricting personal freedom, for example, in order to achieve another good, which you saw in the specific situation as more worthwhile, then we shall have a strange discussion. Then we will have a discussion like that for which I was a little bit blaming the Social Democrats at the beginning, where anything is suddenly turned into freedom and where we hear talk about that without equality no freedom, for example, which is notoriously wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164813	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, and welcome to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519164824	Thank you, President. Much has been said about freedom and security in this debate, and there is good reason for this, not just because the Enhedslisten is setting up a Freedom Commission, but because it is precisely the daily balance that we in the Folketing must make and where there is no truth. That is one of the things that is so beautiful about politics, namely that there is no truth. There is a majority, and the majority is always right, even if it turns out in time that perhaps the majority was not so much right, and then it is not commissions and courts that should be the final vote on political elections; it is the electorate. This proposal is interesting because it actually advocates a very specific view of democracy that in politics there is a truth that can be deduced from a number of parameters, so that we elected representatives are really only a shell to formally verify and approve what the lofty ones in sociology, philosophy, criminology, social science, political science, etc. have come up with here. That is, I believe, what is called in a modern word for liberal democracy, namely that a number of predefined values come first and that the political game can then be allowed to unfold within those values. We know this not least from the EU system, where the European Union has a number of inviolable values such as tolerance, freedom and integrity, etc., but, of course, some values that are so broad that it should be the elected representatives who set the limits and find out exactly where the pointers should be, and not commissions and courts. We also see it in the human rights system, where, as you know, we have a convention which speaks very floromvundently and beautifully of some fundamental values such as freedom of expression and justice in the administration of justice and the right to a variety of situations, but which are all political, and where judges without a popular mandate are therefore not the right ones to put the marker on the balance between individual freedom and the right to security, or one might choose to say between individual rights and popular rights. For where is the balance between the right of the individual and its inviolability, and then the right of a people to live safely and as they wish, in a homeland? This is often the discussion we have, not least in relation to the powers that PET and others have acquired over the last few years, when basically it is about one thing: the right of Danes to protect us from people who want us, our country and our people's government to hurt us. And there, of course, one must give Enhedslisten cadeau in order to put a clear marker on the individual's freedoms; everyone else has so far chosen to place the marker in a slightly more centered place, where one also takes into account security, balance and the general development of society. That's good. In this way, I would like to thank Enhedslisten for having raised this debate. I think it must be quite obvious that when it comes to our intelligence service, there is a need for things to be done in secret, of course. We're up against some powerful forces. Unfortunately, it is not only people who work outside the country's borders, but, of course, not least thanks to Enhedslisten's contribution to foreign policy also within Denmark's borders. And we should all include PET and FET and the police and a large number of other authorities in our evening prayers, simply because it is they who ensure that we can have this Parliament at all and that we can walk as freely as we can, on the streets and alleys. It is a complete core element of modern democracy. Even if you think it's a core element of the perfect society you'd like, whatever it is, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen's ideological, liberalist society or a more socialist society, or whatever it may be, we are all, after all, or except Enhedslisten, bound by one concrete thing, namely reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519165330	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519165357	Thank you for the floor. In 2017, the Institute for Human Rights declared in their annual report that for the first time it had started to go back with the rights of freedom in Denmark, with the rights for which countless generations have fought, sacrificed themselves in times prior to us. That year reference was made to the burka ban, the PET and the Defence Intelligence Service, which eased the demand for the deletion of unnecessary data on citizens, the conditions of tolerated residence for foreigners at Kærshovedård, who were tightened, unworthy punishment of the homeless, which a majority seems to be prolonging this year. Because in the closing debate on the policy in 2017, on the year that had passed, on what had been achieved, it was an eagerness to restrict freedom that took up the debate. Instead, it could have been what you would do for the children, what you would do for the elderly, for the climate or the economy, but it was a hunt for the homeless. Unfortunately, that hunt has continued this year, and it is also the case that this year we have seen a further withdrawal of freedoms for citizens. These are the rights of children who otherwise had the prospect of a Danish passport and of Danish citizens who have their passports taken away at a ministerial desk rather than at the judge's desk. The stove for mass surveillance of innocent Danes has been put in place, logging under the control of the EU Court of Justice continues, and there is enforcement of contact bans in private property searches without a court order, etc. etc. And it's alone in this assembly. The gradual reduction of our freedoms goes back to 2001 • the terrible terrorist attack in the United States, which so shaken us all. I think we all remember where we were that day. At least ten-year-old Kristian was playing Diablo II. He was watching it on television, and for a moment he was wondering whether it was the game or what was going on on television that appeared most unreal. However, the incident led to a large number of legislative measures that we had never imagined before. Have they all been necessary, appropriate and proportionate? We have to look at this because when we conduct politics, it should be based on a nuanced light on the subject, not on individual cases, and it has been a fundamental problem, a fundamental challenge of our legal policy in recent years, that we are introducing a lot of action on the basis of individual episodes without having them evaluated subsequently to appear tighter, to appear decisive rather than interested in what really works and makes a difference. In the decade that has just begun, it must be crucial that this kind of action is temporary and evaluated, because otherwise we will just arbitrarily limit our freedom and take for granted what our ancestors have fought for in all of our Denmark. I have no objection to taking targeted action against terrorists and hard-boiled criminals if we can prove that it works and that it is proportionate to the freedom that we renounce. And if the majority is so sure that the measures that have been taken are as good and necessary as they state, then it must be a matter of form to have them evaluated. One gets a little impression of, since one is not so willing to have them evaluated, that it may be because some of them do not have much effect, and therefore one is not so happy to get it all out in the evaluation light. Summa summarum then the Radical Left wants to support this Freedom Commission and hope that the decade we have just entered will be a decade in which we extend our freedoms and do not restrict them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519165907	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519165913	Thank you. The Radical Left is talking about freedoms from a very ideological point of view, but the Radical Left is also advocating an alien policy which, after all, leads to the de facto exploitation of our societies, more violence, more crime, greater threat to assemblies, greater threat to our Jewish minority, and which therefore also de facto means that we need more Koran bricks in the streets, more need for bulletproof glass at the synagogue, more need to have police when Rasmus Paludan is out to use his right to demonstrate. I therefore have to ask: if we do not want the protection and protection of the people who have to be protected because of the immigration policy that has been implemented, in the first place in 1983 with the power of the Radical Left and which they have subsequently advocated, what then? Are you willing and cynical enough to say that we are importing a lot of violent people and those who then want to take advantage of their freedom must, as we heard before, be ready, as the bird in the woods, for a bird of prey to come at any moment and attack them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170031	It is based on the premise that all the anti-freedom measures that have been taken since 2001 should have an effect on a whole lot. And that's basically just what you're looking for with this commission. But let us have it evaluated, let us see whether it is necessary, whether it is appropriate, proportionate; and that is the evaluation which the Radical Left is very concerned with and which we support with this resolution. Let's get it evaluated. There is no need to simply restrict our freedom without looking at it closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170107	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170109	Now, that's interesting, because that means that the Radical Left is willing to live with Koran bricks in the streets and bulletproof glass, and what else is, if you just find out that this is what has to ensure that these people are kept alive. But we are not prepared to change the policy of aliens, which has brought about the enormous nuisances we have in our society, and the fierce desire we see among us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170134	These are a little strange premises being put forward here, and I do not think that is what this debate is about. It is about whether we should have a commission that looks at the many legislative measures that have been taken in recent years, which have led to the restriction of freedoms for ordinary Danes • monitoring, logging, etc. Why don't we take a second look at these things? That is what we in the Radical Left should be doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170204	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170207	I would like to stick to this point: in other words, does the rapporteur not at all recognise that there is a link between the number of Muslims in Denmark and the restrictions on both freedom and security? The rapporteur himself mentioned the burka ban earlier, where I assume that the rapporteur is primarily challenging the fact that it became a cover-up ban, which means that Danes cannot go around and dress as they would like, but we would never have had that problem if we had not got Muslims into Denmark, who would like to go with burka and thus compromise on the one hand the right of the large majority to be able to see the face, and on the other hand the freedom to live in a free society where you decide for yourself how you want to dress. I think that in a number of areas it is very worrying to hear the rapporteur's talk about how freedom and security are linked, without even reflecting on the fact that it is related to immigration from the Middle East; that is quite elementary, Mr President. Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170303	I know that some people have an interest in turning this debate into such an alien debate, and now we have to discuss it, but what is interesting in this context is the anti-freedom measures that have taken place in this country since 2001. Shouldn't we have it looked at in the seams? Is this all necessary? Why shouldn't we evaluate it? That is what this motion for a resolution is all about, and we would like to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170332	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170333	I think I will actually use the rapporteur's remarks here to confirm what Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen said earlier: Very early in life you only see freedom, and then you become wiser and wiser and understand the value of security. I mean, sir. Hegaard just told me that he was playing Diablo when four planes attacked the United States. Maybe that's why he doesn't understand. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170400	I shall therefore rejoice that I have the future ahead of me, and that I shall become even wiser; we can all rejoice at that. Similarly, the questioner may be wiser, for the questioner also has a bright future and many good years ahead of him.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170419	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170423	It just shows that you can be an old man, even if you exist in a young man's body. I have no reason in any way to challenge the rapporteur's intellect, but I would like to try to deal with some of the examples that are being drawn up here. Because we are talking about a Freedom Commission to go back to 2001, and the examples that the radical rapporteur has mentioned are, after all, the case of the convicted of terrorism, the control of sexual offenders, etc., the monitoring of some of the things we have actually discussed in the last year. And I think that these discussions have actually worked on an open and enlightened basis, which is why I think it is rather strange if you should have a commission to evaluate some of the legislation we have made in just the last session. I would really like to ask the radical rapporteur whether the radical rapporteur agrees that restricting freedom for example. a convicted terrorist or a convicted sexual assault creates more freedom and security for others.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170525	I think we have certainly had some very good discussions on the legislative proposals that have been made. There has not been agreement on all of them, but for some of the proposals there has been a majority, and we must respect that. I do not want to go into the issue of whether restricting freedom would give more freedom. I am not sure I am much in favour of the Erasmus Montanus approach. What I am just saying, and what we are supporting with this resolution, is that when there are some restrictions, as there have been in this Assembly, as the questioner rightly points out, then let us have it evaluated. Let us take a look at: does it now have the effect, in the end, that was expressed when it was presented? Then it is fine if it has a super-good effect and it has been necessary and proportional to the freedom that has been renounced. That is just what we would like to have examined in relation to the things that have been in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170627	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170628	Well, we can, for example. see that, in relation to people convicted of sexual abuse against children, there have been some cases where they have committed new attacks on other children after they have served their term of imprisonment they have changed their name and they have moved residence. That is why we have put in place a law that will enable the police to control these people more effectively by, among other things. To search their homes, even without a court order, and if you find something that requires it, then you have to have it. There has been a discussion of what I know the Radicals were against it, because the freedom of the sexually convicted is restricted, but we are arguing that it is in fact to protect some of the innocent children who may be subjected to those abuses. So this is a very good and clear example, which in reality is just the very concrete one I would like to mention, namely that one can, of course, limit the freedom of some to guarantee freedom for some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170717	In the draft law which the author highlights, there were some things in which the Radical Left could see some sense: for example, extending some of the areas where a residence ban could be imposed, so that it was not just one swimming pool but more swimming pools or a larger geographical area than in the past. What we just couldn't see was whether you could do a search without a warrant. Now it has been introduced, and should we not evaluate it at some point and see if it has now been necessary to see whether it has had the great effect that was initially desired?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170752	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no more brief comments. And I would like to welcome Mrs Katarina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party. If I said it wrong, I meant Karina.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519170817	I would say that the President is not the only one to choke in my name, and I hear many good words from it. The Danish politicians, step by step, have moved towards a course in which fundamental freedoms are violated. And now the development has come so far that it should call for deep concern from the citizens and thorough reflection from the political system. Those words are not mine, but they are the words of a number of key voices in the Danish debate on legal certainty in Berlingske in December. You pointed out that we are witnessing a decisive political cultural slip in the work of preventing and combating crime. Those votes spoke, among other things. Jonas Christoffersen from the Institute of Human Rights, Jacob Mchangama, director of the independent legal think tank Justitia, Jens Elo Rytter, law professor at the University of Copenhagen and expert on freedom and human rights, and Chairman of the Lawyers' Council, Peter Fogh. Some of the things they have pointed out have been a problem in recent years, for example. the decision to impose double sentences for certain types of crime in ghetto areas; it is the decision to impose a ban on the residence of certain persons in certain regions of the country; it is the decision to postpone the right to family reunification for certain refugees by three years, which is to be imposed by the European Court of Human Rights in March; it is the decision to impose minimum penalties for several types of crime which eliminate the possibility of judicial discretion; it is the Imam Act which criminalises religious influence activities; it is the continued increase in the number of laws which gives public access to private property without judicial recognition; it is the case of the illegal logging of telecommunications data; it is the extended use of license scanners and the possibility of storing data; it is the decision to make it administratively possible to deprive citizens of their citizenship. And many, many more things they have on their list. I am not going to judge what is good and bad in the relevant list.I think we have already had long debates in the Danish Parliament on the subject, but the hand on the heart: Parliament has, and we have often been a part of this in the SF too, delivered quite a lot of tightenings in areas for everything from gangs to terror and investigative tools in recent years. Some of this has certainly been necessary, and other things may have been an act of powerlessness in legal policy. These are countless packages, which just turn a little bit more on the well-known grip of punishment, less legal certainty, greater appropriations • when there has been fire and fire in the streets. Maybe it's time to see if it's all been worthwhile. Have the interventions been too big? Have the tools proved their value? Of course, we should not remove what is worthwhile and actually batter, but other things could perhaps bear a legal certainty check, now that we can sort out how it has actually been used, and a reality check has been used at all? A few months ago something interesting actually happened in the Chamber. For once, there was no majority in favour of one of the government's proposals for monitoring. This was a rather unusual situation, and this has led to us actually taking a small step the other way. We have improved a proposal on monitoring and it turned out that there was indeed a limit to how much we think should be monitored. In the end, we did not actually give the Minister, as was proposed with the proposal, the authority to designate new places where monitoring can be carried out without Parliament being, as it were, in the past. In fact, this was a way of providing a little more democratic control. So it turned out that the Folketing actually has a limit. So let's just take a open-minded look at what's been going on in recent years. I know that we are very different in our approach to what should be of such purely legal policy tools, but I think it is always sensible to review how these tools have actually worked. So I think it is a positive proposal from the Enhedslisten, and we can of course support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519171258	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519171310	Thank you. The Enhedslisten proposes to set up a so-called Freedom Commission to investigate all policies since 11 September 2001, which have restricted freedom in the country. The reason is that it is claimed that most of the decisions taken by Enhedslisten have been adopted blindly in response to violent events. As a result, the unitary list suspects that several of the laws are not working as intended and go too far in relation to the problem. It is mentioned here that the Commission, inter alia: work with the Imam Act, residence bans and double sentences in certain residential areas, and that the Commission should include a wide range of police, social science, sociological and philosophical competences, while there should be experts with a focus on human and constitutional law. I must admit that the motion for a resolution surprises me a little. In the proposal, Enhedslisten indicates that the Folketing has adopted policy almost blindly. I am not speaking on behalf of other parties, but in the Conservative People's Party we are fully aware of what kind of policy we have voted through. This has mostly been necessary policy. We are also very aware that unfortunately there are forces that will Denmark hurt. Those threats have not diminished since 2001, on the contrary. And the threats require that in a number of areas we have had to adopt legislation for anything other than for fun. Does this mean that some of our decisions have reduced freedom? Yeah, I'm afraid so. There is always a balance between freedom and security, and once we have adopted legislation, it has been debated very thoroughly. In an ideal world we would not need such legislation, but we are not living in an ideal world. In addition, I wonder what exactly will be achieved by setting a million-dollar commission to spend several years reviewing already thoroughly discussed legislation. There are countless examples of commissions that have cost millions without us, as politicians, being able to use the conclusions for anything. An example of this is the Farum Commission of 2002, which spent 10 years investigating possible critical conditions in the Farum Municipality. According to the Ministry of Justice's statement of costs, it amounted to over 59 million. kr. Today we are in a serious crisis which we do not yet know the economic consequences of. We do not believe that this is the time to spend even more millions on another Commission. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the Enhedslisten resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519171619	Thank you, too. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments. And I would like to welcome Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519171652	When we in New Citizens are fighting to solve foreign policy from scratch, it is very much linked to freedom, freedom for the Danes. For decades of failed immigration policy consistently confronts us with the choice between two evils: should we accept that violence, everyday terrorism and the raison d'être of our society are spreading at the expense of the freedom of the Danes, or should we, on the other hand, agree to resort to means which, on the other hand, limit our freedom of surveillance, increased police protection and increased control, precisely to protect citizens' freedom? We will not continue to be faced with those choices. That is why we need to resolve immigration policy from the bottom up. An asylum freeze must be introduced, criminal foreigners must go out, consistently and after the first sentence, and then we must ensure that the foreigners who are staying in the country support themselves. And why is this connected? This is because we can see that a number of our fundamental freedoms are under threat. Our freedom of expression is threatened by violent Muslims who threaten Islam-critical journalists, politicians and debaters. When people like Lars Hedegaard, Kurt Westergaard and Flemming Rose need constant police protection in order to speak critically about Islam, this testifies to the fact that decades of failed immigration policy have limited our freedom of expression • unnecessarily, inappropriately and disproportionately, as stated in the proposal. Religious freedom is also under threat. When Danish Jews need to be protected with police and bulletproof glass so that they can freely and securely cultivate their faith and gather in their synagogue, this testifies to the fact that a nasty and partially imported anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism has reduced our freedom of religion unnecessarily, inappropriately and disproportionately. Our freedom of assembly is under threat. When legal demonstrations against the Islamicisation of our society are shut down or directly banned, this shows that the failed immigration policy has allowed some people to stay in our country who do not respect the fact that we can express ourselves here and gather together about what we believe in politically. These are people who restrict the freedom of assembly unnecessarily, inappropriately and disproportionately. And when it comes to the ownership of one of the most important freedoms... it is threatened by the world's highest tax burden... I'd better hurry to say before I end up in Detector... because we're overtaken by France. The fruitage of our own work belongs to the individual and ownership is a right of liberty for people who include our right to dispose of our own goods. From a bourgeois perspective, the freedom to keep and dispose of our own goods is unnecessarily, inappropriately and disproportionately limited. That is how we can go on, and for me and for New Citizens, the increasing Islamisation, the interference of the state in the everyday life and economy of the Danes and the increasing power of the European Union over our people's rule are the greatest threats to the freedom of the Danes, and the threat is real. It could therefore be tempting to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, but the condition that the result of the work of a Freedom Commission would be more and more than another bunch of books paid by the Danes' tax dollars is, of course, that the conclusions lead to political concessions. And, frankly, I doubt that parties such as the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left will move on the policy of foreigners, because they will then acknowledge that a failed immigration policy has led to restrictions on our freedom. I also doubt that a large red majority in the Folketing will move on tax policy, although we find that the world's second highest tax burden is, after all, a restriction on our property rights. And frankly, I doubt that there will be a majority in favour of restricting the European Union's power over our people's rule, just because we can see that the European Union repeatedly ignores what we in this Parliament want to adopt. In that light, unfortunately, such a Freedom Commission will end up being another book in the offices, just like the big book, or the two big books we have received from the Freedom of expression commission, which says a lot of good things, but which are still not being listened to. That is why we cannot vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519172203	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no brief comments. I would therefore like to welcome Mr. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519172215	Thank you. This is an excellent proposal that Enhedslisten has made. We'll back that up. We think it is a good idea to examine whether a large number of the restrictions on the freedom, privacy and freedoms of the Danes are in line with the objective to be achieved, namely to increase the security of the Danes and whether the powers given to the state go too far in relation to the security and security that it is now intended to create. So we think that makes sense. It is generally a pity that over the last 20 years, when the free society has been under attack and it has been for the last 20 years, and it has always been the free society; free society has always had its enemies; whether it is communists, revolutionary socialists, Islamists, insidious states or organized gang members, the free society has always had its enemies; the response to the enemies of the free society has been that the free society should be less free, that the state should be stronger and that citizens' freedoms should be reduced. And it has also always been the case, or at least over the last 20 years, that more will have more, that we cannot have enough supervision and that the state and the authorities cannot have enough powers, and that we cannot restrict either legal certainty or freedoms sufficiently to increase security and security. That is why, of course, it makes sense for us to check whether it has increased safety, whether it has had an effect, whether any of it has gone too far. This is basically a sensible discussion on objectives and means, because if the security of the free society is not significantly increased, and we are only left with the restriction of freedom, then we have acted wrongly and hastily, which is why I think it makes sense for us to have it examined. However, I find it rather strange that it is called a Freedom Commission when there are so many good freedom-related issues that Enhedslisten does not choose to take along, such as the protection of private property. In other words, without private property, freedoms will become empty and meaningless. Freedom of expression is not very much worth if it is the state that owns all the newspapers; the right to privacy is not very much worth if it is the case that you do not even have a private home. Economic freedom and private property are the prerequisites for free society and the freedom of individuals. Now I know that Enhedslisten has, I believe, agreed with himself that you can have a toothbrush and some other tool there, but otherwise Enhedslisten's policy is that private property, capitalism, is something that you have to get rid of, and that is why it all gets a little weird when you call it a Freedom Commission. But the idea is good enough. It could also be relevant to spread the subject more widely when looking at the challenges of freedom. Why is private use expropriated? Why must politicians regulate and interfere in Danes' health habits? It is also an interference in freedom. Why do we still have a racism paragraph? Why can municipalities consistently choose to ignore the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen when citizens' rights are trampled underfoot? Why do we still have a top tax in Denmark? There are so many good examples that freedom is being trampled underfoot, which is not just about monitoring and the actions we have taken in the wake of various terrorist attacks, or what do I know about bug packages, gang packages, terrorist packages, and I must come after you. So there are many things that it might be interesting to look at in the seams, so to speak, but it should not stop us from supporting this otherwise quite excellent proposal to investigate whether we have gone too far with the interference with freedom that we have made and whether it has increased our security sufficiently at all. Then we could always have some semantic discussion about whether the commission should have a different name, but leave it alone. It is a good proposal, we support it and we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519172629	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Alex Vanopslagh Bring it on! )
ParlaMint-DK_20200519172633	I find it interesting that LA wants to set up a commission to explain to what extent and to what extent freedoms have been curtailed inappropriately, disproportionately, and now I do not remember what the latter was, bearing in mind that we are sitting in a Parliament, where it is political conditions that make it impossible to think logically and rationally about everything from top tax to foreign policy, etc. Does the rapporteur really believe that the work of such a Commission and the work of a poet who will probably come out of it, paid for by the Danes' tax dollars, will make a difference to the left and their relationship to what is perhaps the most threatening in terms of our freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519172724	When it comes to the debate about monitoring, about the Danes' freedoms and about Danish legal certainty versus the state's ability to protect us from external threats, it is not the left that I am concerned about. Then it is the right, so to speak, that I am worried about, and a commission will be able to make black on white if that is the case, that endless restrictions on personal freedom do not provide a freer society and that it does not provide any more security. If that is the case, it would be good for us Liberals and those parts of the left who care about these things to be able to say to parts of the right that they are wrong. But no, this commission doesn't make Enhedslisten realize that they are inconsistent and illogical and every single day fights the freedom of the Danes on all other points. No, this commission won't contribute to that. But now that the Liberal Alliance and the Left have a common fight for freedom in one area, I must not stand in the way of cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519172825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519172826	Specifically, in relation to monitoring in social housing, where there are cameras on the gables, I would say that this is largely due to the fact that we have imported some people who do not buy into our values, who have betrayed our society, which the Left is not willing to do anything about. You might be able to remove the security cameras, but you don't remove the root of the problem, and where are we? Do we stand with more freedom or less freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519172854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519172857	I fully share the wish of the new citizens that we should challenge the conventions as far as possible. I really believe that we should examine what they do in other countries in relation to Convention issues when it comes to throwing criminal foreigners out of Denmark. Nobody wants them to be here. We want to maintain good diplomatic relations internationally, but in relation to throwing criminal foreigners out of Denmark, we should challenge the conventions more than we do today. So that is where I share the wishes of New Citizens, and I think that almost the whole of Parliament has a common desire to change the asylum system, so that asylum treatment is carried out in neighbouring areas rather than spontaneously in Denmark and Europe, and that we can thus gain control over how many of us are coming here. So that is also where we agree. We also agree to make greater demands on self - support. So I do share the desire of New Citizens that we should have a paradigm change on immigration and asylum policy in Denmark, and that this will alleviate some of the problems that exist in relation to the state constantly making efforts for more monitoring. But free society has always had its enemies. It has also had it in socialists and communists, in gang members who had nothing to do with Islam or the Middle East, in outside states that are attacking us. There will always be enemies to free society, and there we do not need to answer the enemies of freedom by restricting our own freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173018	Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173021	Thank you and thank you to the Liberal Alliance for receiving this motion for a resolution. I would just like to support the Liberal Alliance in saying that it might be interesting to bring private property here, because I actually hear that, sir. Alex Vanopslagh says that there may be some problems when the state goes in and violates the housing, such as the United Kingdom. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen did as a minister when they made the ghetto law. So I think that could be very interesting to bring into this. For the sake of Enhedslisten, we can easily write that into a joint report in committee if we get that far. So I'm just trying to accommodate that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173103	General housing companies are probably one of the most bad ideas as far as integration is concerned, as has been the case from the centre-left and the left-hand side over the last 5 decades. After all, it is not a violation of private property that some parts of general housing companies should become private homes, where they then have private property rights. So I do not quite buy the premise, but I would like, if only at a philosophical, principle level, to welcome the fact that Enhedslisten briefly defended private property. It's gratifying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173142	Then we came so far that we would certainly like to take it with us and look at it. Well, then I'll just inform Mr. Knox. Alex Vanopslagh says that I just e-mailed him Enhedslisten's program of principle, where there is something about our relationship with private property, because there are sometimes such little myths about what our relationship with it is. So it was just to inform you about it in relation to the further work on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173211	I will look forward to spending some time reading Enhedslisten's program of principle. I do not think, however, that the rapporteur should expect this to lead to membership of the party later.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173224	Thank you, sir. Van opslagh. There is one more brief comment, and we should take it with us. It's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173233	This debate is simply too strange not to take part in. When you read this proposal from the Enhedslisten and look at what it is that Enhedslisten would like to have examined, I would say, I am surprised that it should be the relationship where Mr. Vanopslagh needs a commission to find out what he might think. In other words, the approval of terrorism, the ghetto agreement on double penalties in certain residential areas, I remember, of course, that when it came to the burka ban, I believe that the Liberal Alliance chose to release its members, and that is perhaps the disagreement that is at the root of this. But are these basically not areas where, as a bourgeois and also as a liberal, one should be relatively clear and surely not need some philosophical, sociological, ecological commission to sit and give guidelines on how to vote in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173333	Well, I'm very clear and I've always been. I am very sceptical that the reaction to the fact that a free society has some enemies must be that all citizens of a country must have restricted their freedom, that all citizens of a country must be monitored, that all citizens of a country must be on a weaker legal basis. I would then like to check whether the adoption of a number of different packages, gang packages and package of leaks and anti-terrorist laws, and I will come after you, has also increased security, whether it has substantially increased the overall freedom of society, because if it has not, then it confirms to me that the position that I have is correct. If it turns out I'm wrong, I'll take stock of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173421	It's a strange search for confirmation for a party leader, I think. We heard in Mr. Vanopslagh's speech that he dared not challenge the conventions unless other countries took the lead. So, is this simply an expression of the fact that the Liberal Alliance cannot find enough courage to defend its own arguments unless there are others who take the fights first? Then I think it reveals a slightly dull trend.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173452	I am not going to go into too much about which parties have a zigzag course around climate law and EU membership or not, or anything like that, I have to keep that completely out of this discussion. I think the position of the Liberal Alliance is clear. And another advantage of such a commission could be that some of those who do not agree with us could perhaps be convinced by the work of a Commission in the bourgeois camp. Then I think it is reasonable that instead of always hiding behind saying that we cannot do anything because of conventions, we are looking at what other countries are doing. Because they go a little further to the edge, without it becoming an unconstitutional issue and having caused problems with the European Union and others, yes, then I think we should do the same in relation to what we all agree is sensible: to throw criminal foreigners out of the country and make higher demands for self-reliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173530	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173534	Thank you. This commission, which has been described, is very broad. I actually think that the Liberal Alliance here contributed to that commission looking at it even wider. There was ownership. I didn't hear everything, but there was also something about the general housing sector. I actually thought it was a little hard to get hold of. That is to say, I have to assume that, now that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal here, it is because it seems sensible to use tax dollars to have a commission that looks very broadly at legislation since 2001 and also looks at property rights, taxation, the housing sector. How much money does the rapporteur think should be spent on such a Commission that should look at it so widely?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173621	Just enough money for the work to be thorough, but not so much money that it is a waste of tax dollars. That being said, there are some things I'm happy to use tax dollars on. Action to promote the freedom of the Danes is one of them. So it is without shame or trembling in the voice that I can say that I will support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173641	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173643	The first part, I think, I agree with, is this: spending money that promotes the freedom of the Danes. I think that is really hard to disagree with. That is, in fact, more the basis for this debate. In fact, I think that we have succeeded in having the debate on a number of the debates we have had here in recent years, and that is why I think the Commission is superfluous. It seems to me that this debate has just shown that it is getting even bigger and even more unmanageable. I do not know if the rapporteur has the same experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173713	I am not sure I understood the rapporteur's question. I'm sorry if it's my understanding it's wrong with. But I understood that the Commission is superfluous because we are constantly having similar discussions in the Assembly and that it is therefore a waste of money and a waste of time. Is that quite correct? No, but nevertheless I think that there is an advantage in such a Commission work, namely that we can speak from a common framework and a common knowledge and look back on the many debates that have been in this Chamber for the last 20 years and conclude something more firm on it. Because it is not the case that a broad consensus has been reached in the Folketing as to whether or not one goes too far in the interference with freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173751	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, so we now go to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519173806	Thank you for that and thank you for a good and interesting debate. Our freedoms are, after all, one of the most fundamental things that exists in our democracy. It is also something that is important to all of us and concerns us all. I think the debate has reflected that. It is also a matter of great importance when we discuss integration. This is of great importance when we discuss how to stop social dumping. It is of great importance when we discuss how to monitor our coasts. After all, there is virtually no debate on which our freedoms will not be a part. Fortunately, it has also filled a lot, I would say in the last few months, when we have discussed what measures we should take in the fight against corona. However, since 2001, the Folketing has restricted citizens' fundamental freedoms to a greater extent than in the period from World War II to the turn of the millennium. That is not only the view of the Enhedslisten; it is also in the report from the Freedom of Freedom Commission published at the end of April that it appears on page 53 if you want to look it up. And not only have our freedoms been curtailed. Often this is the case, the Commission writes that: the restrictions on freedom of expression have often been carried out in the wake of events where there has been a great need for political action, for example. after a terrorist attack. The Commission further points out that, in the situation described, there is a risk that the Folketing and the government will reduce freedoms more than necessary. Against this background, the Commission is calling for an evaluation of the measures taken in the field of freedom of expression since 2001. The motion for a resolution by the Enhedslisten, which we are discussing here today, has been written before the report by the Freedom of Freedom Commission appeared and before we knew what would be in it. But, of course, we welcome the Commission's support for Enhedslisten's demand for a critical look at the restrictions on our freedoms and whether those restrictions have gone too far. The Freedom of Speech Commission, as its name says, looked at freedom of expression, but unfortunately it is not the only freedom that has come into play in urgent action and in goose-eye action since 2001; other freedoms are at stake: freedom of information, where since 2014 we have had an extremely restrictive public law, freedom of assembly, freedom of association, freedom of belief, the right to a fair trial and the right to private and family life. In the Enhedslisten, I dare say, we have argued and voted against most of the restrictions on freedoms that have been implemented since 2001. Although we have seen a need to change legislation in specific situations, in many cases we have thought that the then government and the changes of the majority at that time have gone too far. Today we are in a situation where we do not know whether there are any of the things that we were opposed to as a party that has actually worked as intended and created a safer world and a safer Denmark, or whether we were right when we said that these were hovsa solutions, which should demonstrate more so-called action, but which did not work in practice, or when we said that the balance between advantages and disadvantages was not in place, and that the price of lost freedoms by a specific proposal would be too high. We do not know, because we lack the thorough and systematic assessment, not only of the negative impact of legislative changes on our freedoms, but also of their positive impact on, for example. the prevention of terrorism and other serious crime for the benefit of security and security. We simply need, we believe in the Enhedslisten, a balance between the advantages and disadvantages of each initiative that has been taken for almost 20 years. The balance must be made with an open mind and an expertise of a broad-based Commission. That is what we are proposing today, precisely so that we can have the assessment of whether the balance is in order so that we can take up the political discussion that we have also mentioned. I agree, of course, that it is political, but I think it is very sensible that we should have the overall assessment and that we should have something on which we can discuss it. So I would like to thank you for a good debate and, of course, to thank you in particular for the parties that support the resolution. I hope we can make a joint report on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519174251	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no brief comments. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519174319	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519174327	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution instructs the government to put forward legislative proposals for the establishment of a Constitutional Council during the current parliamentary year. The draft law shall enable constitutional questions to be submitted to the Constitutional Council if at least one quarter of the members of the Folketing are in agreement. In my view, the proposal must be based on at least one of three arguments. I do not agree that any of them leads to the conclusion that a Constitutional Council should be set up. The first argument for establishing a Constitutional Council, which the proposers explicitly mention in the motion for a resolution, is that government officials do not often give false assessments. In other words, the Folketing must have the opportunity to obtain proper assessments elsewhere. Legal issues can certainly be complex, and indeed they can be complex when it comes to constitutional issues. There are not always clear answers to legal questions, and sometimes mistakes are made. But the fact that this can happen in specific cases is probably not enough to say that this should then be the reason for changing the system fundamentally. In addition, officials' assessments have been regularly challenged in the courts as well. This is true, for example. The Maastricht judgment and the Lisbon judgment in which the courts reviewed the issue in relation to the surrender of sovereignty. And, of course, there is the Thin case, but in a broader perspective, the Thin case merely confirms that the courts can try and ultimately overrule the government's assessments. The authors also mention the Tamil case in the comments, but in my view this is an example of the fact that a Constitutional Council could not have done so from time to time. These were simply illegal practices within a ministry. The second argument for establishing a Constitutional Council could be a concern that, if the matter is now put at the forefront, the officials are politically influenced to make wrong assessments. The reality is that it would be very difficult to get through with it in Denmark. The Danish Parliament is and we should be pleased about that very actively in the control of the government. Furthermore, we have the law of ministerial responsibility, and it means that, as with everything else that the ministers do to the Folketing, they also give legal assessments to the Folketing under ministerial responsibility. This also applies to assessments of constitutional issues. The assessments made by a minister to the Folketing must therefore be correct and they must be comprehensive. In addition, as a reflection of the responsibilities of the ministers, a number of duties always have to be fulfilled by officials, including when preparing legal or other professional assessments. It follows from the code seven that officials must fulfil duties of truth, professionalism, legality and party political neutrality. These are fundamental duties and virtues in the preparation of legal and professional assessments by the Office. Both the government and the civil service work within a fixed framework, and I do not think there is any reason to change that. There is no freedom of play, and neither should there be, because the Folketing must of course be able to have confidence in the government's assessments. The third argument for setting up a Constitutional Council could then be that the Folketing would like a different answer from that given to the Folketing by the official work and the minister. But if that is the case, it is really a wish that law should look different. And that's what we call politics. If a standing constitutional council is set up, there will be a risk that the political debate will shift to a legal and technical debate. I do not think we have any interest in going there. Just as we do not need to spend all our time on the calculations when discussing economic priorities, we should not discuss the acquis primarily in legal policy. We must take the political debate on the direction in which we want society to move. Of course, there is a legal framework that we politicians need to move within. We also mentioned this during an earlier debate, and above all it is the framework of the Constitution. But it is a political question which decisions should be taken within that framework. It is clear that there are cases where it is more complicated to define exactly where the legal limits go than in other situations. But it is probably hard to see how that problem can be solved by setting up a Constitutional Council. With all due respect to legal experts, this would hardly reduce the complexity; even so, a constitutional council could be given the status of a kind of chief judge for the Folketing. In my opinion, we should be careful not to fall into the trap of making decisions that are ultimately political into law, just as law should not be turned into politics either. Unlike officials and experts, we are elected with a political mandate to take political decisions, and that is what we must focus on. The more one brings the question of the legal framework for a given proposal into the Parliamentary Chamber, the more one will help to tip the balance. It is and should be the task of the Folketing to fill the legal framework with political decisions. Finally, I should like to make a comment on the minority guarantee proposed. If e.g. A quarter of the members of the Folketing should be able to refer a proposal to a Constitutional Council, then, with all due respect for the honest intentions of all of us, there is a risk that some might be tempted to use that opportunity to postpone and delay the legislative process in a political game, where proposals are lifted into a legal jam jar. I think that will only contribute to what I have just warned against, namely that we are turning politics into law and we are increasing the distance between the people and the elected representatives. Overall, therefore, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175019	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175021	It is not surprising either to those who want to support this proposal or to those who do not want to support it that the government will, of course, speak against it, because this is, of course, a strengthening of the Folketing as legislative power, openly at the expense, of course, of the government as executive power. And one of the powers that I don't think Orla Lehmann or D.G. Monrad or other fathers of the Constitution had thought that the Ministry of Justice should have an almost authoritative right to interpret also the ultimate conclusion of hypothetical legal problems. But that is what is happening today, the Minister for Justice, for example. is such in EU law or in relation to the scope of human rights, etc. that when the Ministry of Justice has given its opinion, it is incontrovertible. And what the Minister is saying is that there is only one way to take legal action. It will be possible to bring an action for recognition against the Ministry of Justice, but in fact I believe that the Constitutional Council that we are imagining here, among other things. according to Swedish example, maybe work a little bit faster, compared to two or three court proceedings that will be able to settle the matter. Then this really isn't a question of, sir. Nick Hækkerup, that it will weaken the government and strengthen the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175124	Thank you. And the Minister of Justice is referred to by his title. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175129	Let me just start by giving that recognition in relation to the thing about saying that you can just take legal action, that it is right. But experience shows that it is more a matter of principle than a real possibility. On the one hand, you have to have jurisdiction over actions and, on the other hand, there are a number of circumstances surrounding what is quite complex. So you can't just do that. It is also absolutely right to acknowledge openly that this will also help to shift the balance between the executive and the judiciary. I find myself in the position I now have, well with a situation in which it is the Ministry of Justice that has the authoritative power to speak on legal issues. And that is what I am going to say, and that is what the questioner can say: How do you know? Because I actually think this is the right way to do it. And then we must remember the difference that exists between us as politicians and the office of civil servants. I will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175233	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175234	But then let us act on it, for this will also strengthen the work of office. Should there be a less honourable Minister of Justice than the Minister of Justice, who went to the office and said that he would like them to interpret the law in a certain way, then the officials, as it is today, would be anxious to consider what it would then be, if they refused to do so, and if they followed the code that the Minister of Justice has so rightly mentioned, would have consequences. If we have a Constitutional Council, the officials will be able to say to this indecipherable Minister of Justice: unfortunately, we cannot do that, because then the Constitutional Council will come and subjugate us. So doesn't the Minister of Justice acknowledge that this will also strengthen the office?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175314	My clear experience is that the fundamental division of labour between us politicians and the official work, namely that the official work must do things right and that politicians must do the right thing, is maintained and that the officials are very firm in the flesh in order to ensure that their advice is correct and factual. So I simply cannot recognise that this is a real problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175347	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175406	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate, which I actually think is both fundamental and interesting, because it is about the relationship between Parliament and government and quite openly that the Folketing should have the opportunity to control the government, no matter how the power turns. The Minister of Justice has well explained the various elements and why it is that both the government and the Social Democratic Party come to the conclusion that we do not support the concrete proposal. So I don't think it serves any purpose to repeat it. When you look at the relationship between Parliament and government, then over the years there has been the debate in which I myself have also had the privilege of participating, which is, of course, about how to strengthen Parliament's ability to exercise this control. There are a number of tools for what is about consultation, questions, etc., but which also provided more funding for party support with the Olsen Plan. Most recently, the Parliamentary Secretariat has been strengthened and the opportunity to seek assistance in the Folketing and also money to initiate studies and other activities. So in this way, the opportunity for the Folketing to exercise control of the government has been continuously strengthened. Another area, I think, is the relationship between conciliation circles and the debates that are taking place in the committees. I think that this government and indeed the previous bourgeois government have made efforts to involve the Folketing a little wider in the negotiations that are going on. Right now we have police negotiations where all the parties in the Folketing are sitting on the table, although not all were necessarily part of the conciliation group that was there. This is a very good example of how to invite in the whole of the Danish Parliament and thus also help to look at the challenges we face in this area and hopefully also reach a common agreement. So this is, of course, an ongoing development. I am not going to repeat the reasons why we cannot support this proposal, but it was to try to give it some perspective. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175619	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175622	Now, of course, we have a Minister of Justice who has a lot, and I would almost say unconventionally, openly professed power. The other day, during the debate on the Public Service Act, we heard the Minister openly say that it was about protecting those who exercised power, and he has almost repeated the same from the Parliament's platform, now with the reason for voting against this proposal to have someone who can compete with the Ministry of Justice in terms of law-making. The law is not always such an exact science, and that's why Mr. Jeppe Bruus also knows that in many such matters of principle one can raise questions as to whether the Department of Justice's interpretation is now correct. Unlike the Minister of Justice, sir. Jeppe Bruus, representative of the Danish Parliament, and that is why I would just like to appeal to Mr Bruus. Jeppe Bruus' conscience and say that sometimes you need to focus not only on the power-political career opportunities that lie, but just do the right thing. Is Mr. Jeppe Bruus absolutely sure he's doing the right thing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175721	Yeah. However, I agree that it is up to all of us, whether or not you are a member of a government party, to be concerned about the relationship between government and parliament, and that is also why I tried to extend the palette a little in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175739	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175739-2	For example: In October last year, we debated the question of the withdrawal of citizenship by foreign warriors, and Mr. Jens Rohde, as I assume, sir. Jeppe Bruus has a close relationship with, since it is Mr. Jens Rohde, who makes the Minister of Justice the Minister of Justice, said that the Radicals would slow down the urgent bill on foreign warriors' passports and justified it by the fact that it was unconstitutional. Mr. Jeppe Bruus did not see that it would be timely if Mr. Jens Rohde could at least have an independent assessment of whether the government's proposal is unconstitutional, rather than relying solely on the assessment made by the government itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175818	Perhaps, without realising it quite clearly, I think that this is a very good example of some of the challenges of the proposal that lies here, namely that every time there is a political disagreement on a proposal, a quarter of the Danish Parliament can set a constitutional council in motion, and I could imagine there were a great many reasons for doing so. So that would really give us the opportunity to spend a very long time on commissions and advice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175844	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519175906	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising an important debate and for putting forward an exciting motion for a resolution. Not all countries have the same tradition as Denmark when we talk about constitutional issues. Many countries have a tradition in which, in particular, the country's Supreme Court has such a more challenging role to play in setting limits for the legislative power on the basis of the Constitution. There are also countries such as Sweden, which the authors themselves mention in the explanatory statement of the resolution, where there is a Council of Law which, instead of the lawyers in the Swedish Ministry of Justice, makes their assessment of whether or not various laws are constitutional. In the Left, we have basic confidence in the assessments we receive from the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice, but we understand that the impartiality of the advice that comes can be called into question. Therefore, there might be an idea to have some kind of constitutional council, but whether it should be linked in the way that the Danish People's Party imagines, we are very doubtful about. For example, we believe that it is hardly enough for just a quarter of members of parliament to ask for an assessment from such a constitutional council. Then we also believe that the most important issue is rarely about the understanding and interpretation of the Constitution, but rather about our international obligations. Be it the European Union, the Convention on Human Rights or international conventions. That is why we are running the risk of having an answer from the Constitutional Council that a legislative or resolution does not conflict with the constitution, but it is as far as it goes because it comes into conflict with other obligations. Then such advice would have to be made, at least it would have to include our international obligations. We are therefore in favour of many of the ideas behind the proposal, but perhaps the Danish People's Party will not be able to use it for the big thing, because we will end up voting red if the proposal is put to the vote. But it is not the same as saying that the debate is not important, nor is it saying that we do not think that it might lead to some kind of constitutional council.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519180155	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519180200	I'd love to sign for that. We are quite open to discussing whether a quarter is the right number. It is, in fact, set relatively arbitrary from some kind of consideration of how party sizes are today. Is it to be two fifths that certain provisions of the Constitution apply? Is it supposed to be closer? It should not be more than half, because typically there will be an interest on the part of the opposition in activating such a Constitutional Council. But we are completely open to that. I would just like to point out that it is not only in Sweden that one has a tradition of having expert advice to assist the Folketing. We also have in Denmark, as I mentioned in the comments, the Criminal Code Council, and we have the Board of Law, etc. It is of course not entirely unknown that the Minister of Justice should be authorized to appoint the President of the Council and put together an expert council which can then, within a period of perhaps three months, or whatever, give the Folketing a response which, of course, should not be regarded as a judgment of the Supreme Court, but which is nevertheless a guiding instrument. So I am glad that with the reservations which Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen had to take, yet were positive words to the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519180309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519180310	I'm always happy to be able to do Mr. Morten Messerschmidt happy. I would say, however, that it is true that we have the Criminal Code Council and the Court of Justice Council, but there are some differences, because they often make an assessment of whether some law needs to be renewed or amended. That would not be the task of a Constitutional Council. As I understand the task of the Constitutional Council, it will only be to carry out such a review of the legality of whether or not a law we are in the process of adopting would conflict with our constitution, and that is, after all, a somewhat different discussion. Then we should also bear in mind that our constitution does not in fact impose so many restrictions if we look at it in such a legal way. Take, for example, our freedom of expression. After all, we can pass virtually any law in here that punishes various statements, without in any way violating the Constitution, at least the words of the Constitution. Something else, of course, is the spirit of the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519180414	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519180416	That is absolutely right. The Constitution is, in its proper sense, a free constitution which is largely based on the confidence that we elected representatives can make sensible and reasonable reflections, but it is difficult to make sensible and reasonable reflections if we are in the pocket of assessments that are not independent. And, I think, one can question whether the role of the Ministry of Justice today bears witness to complete independence. It is therefore part of the curriculum of, I would say, first year's law study to learn about a number of cases in which the Ministry of Justice has been overruled by the Court of Justice and the Supreme Court. But I'm not gonna talk us any further apart. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519180453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519180455	There are, of course, also provisions in the constitution which cannot be avoided, for example. This is about us meeting on the first Tuesday of October at 9:00 a.m. 12.00. It's hard to get around. It's 3:00 a.m. 12.00, and it is October, and it is Tuesday. So there are provisions that are very firm, but the most important thing in the constitution • I am very much in agreement with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt i ^ is the sense of an obligation to e.g. the idea of freedoms, which we are all bound by, even though we could possibly go further in legal terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519180531	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then the next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519180614	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. First of all, I am pleased that the proposer is still young, so there is still, as it were, a struggle to fight for freedoms. We have learned in one of the previous debates that it should be age-related, so I will at least sign for it. The only sentence setting up a Constitutional Council brings Christmas light to my eyes, to a young person who is fighting for freedoms. According to the proposal, the Council must be able to examine constitutional questions if at least one quarter of the members of the Folketing are in agreement. It must be able to examine foreign policy matters in accordance with the Constitution and relations with the European Union and also with the freedoms of the Constitution. Special freedoms have been under pressure in recent years: in this parliamentary year alone, rights have been deprived of children who otherwise had the prospect of Danish passports; there has been mass surveillance of innocent Danes in the stove; logging under the authority of the European Court of Justice continues, enforcement of contact and residence bans by searching private property without a court order, that is, bypassing the courts; and a continuation of unworthy hunting of homeless people. The idea and focus on citizens' freedoms are, in this way, a positive view of the Radical Left, but if we had voted in favour of such a resolution here with a Constitutional Council, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of the European Union should also be included in the work of the Constitutional Council. But it is still an exciting proposal from the Danish People's Party, and I can actually understand that the Danish People's Party is making a proposal for such a council, because at times some of their political proposals could tolerate a trip to the mill of such a Constitutional Council. This was true, for example, when the Danish People's Party recently proposed that detention should be granted by ankle chains without it being submitted to the courts. It would have been a good idea just to get it past the Constitutional Council, which could just give a thumb down. However, I am a little unsure whether it is a good idea that it should be the Ministry of Justice that appoints the members of such a Constitutional Council as has been proposed here, because there may well be some policy in demanding who is appointed or whether it might be more sensible for the courts or judges' councils or lawyers from among them to do so. Nor is it entirely clear what it is that should be submitted to the Council. Is it a legislative proposal, a motion for a resolution, or should we just be able to ask questions? I may have read the proposal a little quickly. But it is clear that if questions can be asked in such a more party-political way as for example. It may be a little inappropriate for committee questions, because then I could imagine that it would be more than a full-time job to be part of a Constitutional Council. The Legal Affairs Committee alone, last time I looked last night, asked over 1,300 questions in seven months in just one committee. And could it be imagined that other committees would also be asked questions of a right nature? Yes, you could, and then we probably won't get any Supreme Court judges to join such a Constitutional Council, that is, if in practice they really are to work and act as Supreme Court judges. However, we are actually happy to continue working on a Constitutional Council if there is a sincere desire for it, but it will probably require a somewhat more thorough and longer run-in than just the present one, and the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of the European Union should also be included as a minimum, as well as a number of points relating to the Council which should be further fleshed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181038	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181041	There is something paradoxical in the rapporteur's speech here, because the main argument that I hear is that if the breadth of issues that can be raised becomes too wide, it will be too many, insurmountable many tasks that the Constitutional Council has to deal with, but at the same time it is also a cardinal point for the rapporteur that the areas of application of the Constitutional Council will be extended to all kinds of international conventions. Perhaps we should hope that the Radical Left will find some position that is either-or, rather than two opposing positions. What I really want to ask is that, now that the rapporteur's party colleague Mr. Jens Rohde back in October 2019, which I also mentioned to Mr. Mr Jeppe Bruus, on a proposal made by the government supported by the Radical Left, claimed that it was unconstitutional, the rapporteur does not think that Mr. Jens Rohde at that time would have benefited from being able to refer that question to a constitutional council so that the matter could actually be assessed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181146	A Constitutional Council could be very exciting, but in order for the Radical Left to be able to agree to it, it must therefore be a little more specific than what has been proposed here and with a slightly larger run-in than just a resolution. So we cannot say on this basis that this is how the model is supposed to be. I do not find it paradoxical that 1 300 questions to a Constitutional Council would seem to minimize the fundamental or thorough treatment of the issues. If Supreme Court judges were to meet so often, I don't think they'd have time to be Supreme Court judges. And there I can also be worried that it is being used a little more in party political work... where can we look at our next play we are going to launch on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181242	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181245	I fully agree with Mr Seligman on this point. Kristian Hegaard in. And the good news is, sir. Kristian Hegaard's arguments are, of course, that they rarely stand for trial, because what is the matter is that the questions that can be put in committee can be put by individual members, whereas what is proposed here is that it takes a quarter of the Members of Parliament to put a question to the Constitutional Council. But sir can. Kristian Hedegaard thought about his study room. What I am considering is what kind of reflection is the basis for the rejection here. I understand that in relation to the concrete, as Mr. Jens Rohde left in October a violation of the Constitution, and I think, sir. Kristian Hedegaard is a lawyer, so he must also take this kind of seriously... you choose not to have it examined by a Constitutional Council, because there are other areas you want to include. It's not exactly in line with what we've signed down to here 20 m down the hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181328	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181329	There is full meaning behind precisely the approach that we can not just on the basis of such an approach and I understand very well the idea of them • general headlines behind a Constitutional Council can support it. In order to create as important a body as it would be, it will probably require a slightly larger influx than has just been here. It's just that. On this basis, therefore, we cannot support it. It takes a little more work than what has just been here and, at least, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of the European Union are also included.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181408	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181423	Thank you for the floor. In any democracy, it is essential that a parliament can be guaranteed independent advice and a legal assessment. We have very good lawyers in the Ministry of Justice, but they serve the Minister first and foremost, and that leaves the Folketing in a rather difficult situation. In any case, we cannot expect the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice to say: this bill we have submitted is unfortunately contrary to the Constitution. At the same time, we must say that in recent years there has been constant pressure on conventions, and there has also been an increased desire, I believe, to take a procedural risk. I have heard that expression a few times, and this has led to reasons for getting an additional assessment beyond that provided by the ministries of whether a law complies with the basic law. But that does not just apply to the Constitution. This also applies to our international obligations, and I am of course thinking here of human rights and of EU law. In fact, SF has three times in the past put forward a proposal for a Constitutional Council which should be able to provide this independent advice to the Folketing. It is well enough a few years ago: the first time in 1991, I think. All the time, unfortunately, the proposal has collapsed. We still think that the idea is good, because in addition to being able to give a second opinion, a constitutional council can be something very important which the ministerial view may not be able to do, i.e. to openly present the reflection pro a contra. And it is very important that we know the considerations and possible differences, but in any case it will be a piece of advice, because it is ultimately the courts that have to decide whether a law is illegal. It happened, for example. on the Threads case. So the bottom line is that we think the idea of a Constitutional Council is good, but we think that the version presented here by the Danish People's Party may be a rather sparing version of what the SF once proposed. If a council is to be set up, it must at least be ensured that we assess not only the constitution, but also the relationship with human rights and EU law, which, after all, is filling up more and more, and which is also a fundamental premise of Danish legal tradition today. It is, moreover, an idea which two former Socialist Justice Ministers have agreed to, and also the current Supreme Court judge Jens Peter Christensen has advocated this proposal. Perhaps we are also a tiny bit lonely about a future council with DF's proposal looking to pick up its staff from the Ministry of Justice, or at least it is they who will be involved in appointing who will be on the council. And these are the lawyers you want to challenge with this. I have been back looking at SF's old proposal, and we proposed to get two from the legal faculties, two from the law firm, two from the courts plus a chairman. After all, it is essential that the composition of such a Constitutional Council appears both with the necessary authority, but also with a degree of independence and expertise. So the SF certainly cannot support the proposal as it stands here. We still think it's a really good idea. We think we should continue to work on this, and it may well be that together we can come up with perhaps a report or something, a common ground, on this proposal. As you know, trust is good, but the risk of control is much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181816	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181819	I just want to express my enthusiasm and gratitude for the words that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has associated with this, and I can actually share a small anecdote. Because I have quite a lot of affection for the SF that was around 1991, and I can actually say that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, in my childhood home, was a bit of a hero in relation to the Maastricht Treaty and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181905	I think we should try that. So we look forward to it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181907	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the SF rapporteur and move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519181919	Thank you. In Denmark, the balance between the legislature, the Folketing, and the executive, the government, is unfortunately very uneven. When, as Members of Parliament, we need a constitutional or other legal assessment, we typically have no option but to ask the government. If, for example, we do not know what to do. If a minister asks whether the Minister's bill is in line with the Constitution, then, funny enough, we always get the answer that it is. If we ask a minister whether the Minister's legislation is in line with human rights, then we get the answer that it is. Sometimes a second opinion is very nice, and I think that is particularly true in matters where we have doubts as to whether Denmark respects human rights, because it takes so long to get it tested. It can be difficult to learn where law stops and where politics begins, or to put it another way: can I, as a member of a party outside the government, trust that the constitutional and legal assessment I receive in a ministerial response to a committee question is one hundred percent sober, completely complete and in no way colored by the government's political agenda? At least I've done that sometimes. Parliaments in our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Germany, are differently well equipped to obtain independent legal assessments which, in some cases, can be used as guardians of the current governments. Parliaments have large independent departments where parliamentarians can produce legal assessments that can be used in parliament and in public, assessments that in many cases challenge, or maybe even contradict, the assessments of the government's own lawyers. In Germany there is a Constitutional Court, and in Sweden, as mentioned in the comments on the motion for a resolution that we are discussing, there is an independent law council. In Denmark we do not really have anything. I therefore think that the Danish People's Party's proposal for an independent constitutional council falls in a very dry place. We need independent legal advice on constitutional issues and on other legal issues such as: in relation to the conventions to which Denmark has acceded. A Constitutional Council, as outlined in the motion for a resolution here, seems to me to dress us in the Folketing a little better to carry out our task of controlling the government. This is, in fact, one of our most important tasks: to control the rulers. So, on this basis, I can give Enhedslisten's support for this motion for a resolution. In fact, I share Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt's concern about who should appoint this. Well, maybe it's not the Justice Department's own people who have to appoint them to criticise them. I fully agree with that, just as I miss the fact that the human rights convention fills more in this proposal. But I can fully support the intentions. In fact, I think that over the last few years we have seen plenty of situations where we have needed the Folketing to have more muscles when it comes to legal assessments when it comes to helping to understand what is really legal in the bill. Unfortunately, we have also seen over the last few years how the muscles of the government have been increased, while the muscles of the Folketing have been weakened when it comes to advice, and therefore this proposal, I think, really falls in a dry place, and we can back it up in the Enhedslisten and look forward to discussing in committee the question of how much the Human Rights Convention should fill and who should stand for the appointment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519182316	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519182318	We heard in an earlier debate here, I think it was Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, say such a bit bold to Mrs Rosa Lund that there was also a long time for Enhedslisten to come into government. At that time, I think, it was meant to be an unkind statement. I think Mrs Lund's speech here bears witness to how healthy it is to have a distanced relationship with the power of government, and although there may sometimes be broken words between my party and Mrs Lund's party, this shows quite beautifully how we can still be united, namely in what should be an underlying foundation for the whole parliament, something uniting for all of us, in other words, that we as legislators and those who have to control power, of course, strike back when the government is arming. And it must indeed be said that there has been a build-up in recent years. So just a thank you for going into this debate with such an open mind. Of course, I am looking forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519182413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519182415	Thank you for that, I'll say back. I have also noted that both the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party are very attentive when it comes to the question of how we control the rulers. There you could also see in the debate about the public law that we have and that applies today, i.e. the one from 2014, that it was especially Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti who were responsible for the criticism of it. So it may be that we are far apart on other points, but right here we have a common understanding that there is a need to control the rulers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519182448	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. So the next rapporteur is Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519182457	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this important debate. The Danish People's Party proposes to create a Constitutional Council. The reason for this must be found in the fact that the members of the Folketing must have the opportunity to have an independent expert council to advise on whether proposals are contrary to the Constitution when they control the government. Today, the decision is made by the Ministry of Justice. The Danish People's Party also mentions that you have a similar model in Sweden. It is also mentioned that we have something called the Criminal Law Council and the Board of Law, as examples of similar institutions, and in this Constitutional Council there must be independent experts, as is known from the Court of Justice and the Criminal Code Council. I remember clearly when I first had to sign the Danish Constitution when I was elected here in Parliament. It was an honour and a privilege to become part of the proud tradition of parliament in our kingdom, and I believe that we all, as politicians, agree that the constitution must, of course, be observed. We also have a proud administrative tradition in which neutral officials sit in the various ministries and help the current government to develop legislative proposals. We understand the intentions of the Danish People's Party in this proposal, and I would like to commend the Danish People's Party for its presentation, so we have the opportunity to debate it and debate how our country operates best. However, in the Conservative People's Party, we think it is important to stick to the custom we have in the people's regime. In the end, it depends on whether one trusts in the official work of the Ministry of Justice in relation to whether the official work is neutral when the Folketing instructs a minister to answer questions. Finally, if you have mistrust of the fact that the Ministry of Justice is too closely connected with the current government, this will not be resolved by a Constitutional Council, as this will only resolve questions relating to the constitution. If the office cannot make proper decisions, we have another and much bigger problem, and then we have to set up councils in all policy areas, and that will be incalculable. In the Conservative People's Party, we have confidence in the official work and the Danish administrative tradition, which is why we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519182746	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519182748	If sir... Naser Khader has so much confidence in the office on even complicated legal issues, can he not explain how it can be that in a series of cases the office has been overruled by the courts? Sir. Naser Khader is undoubtedly aware of the Thin case, where something as immediately logical as the division of power was simply misunderstood by the Ministry of Justice. There is also the Holck case of extradition from Denmark, where the Ministry of Justice proved wrong, and there are a number of foreign policy cases. How can all that be exposed anyway get Mr. Does Khader dare to find out that the office in the Ministry of Justice is not wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519182839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519182842	Now I'm not a lawyer, that's the questioner, but I'm a cand.polit., and as the questioner knows, law is not an exact science... it's not mathematics. Often, assessments are the basis for some of the matters that the lawyers and other lawyers of the Ministry of Justice have to deal with, and there will always be other assessments, which we often see when there are cases in the press; there can, for example, be. be two different law professors who say something different in the same case. However, I would like to insist that I have confidence in the assessments of the Ministry of Justice, even if they are sometimes overruled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519182927	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519182929	But what we'd like to do, sir. Naser Khader, is why, sir. Naser Khader has confidence. This isn't about whether you're a lawyer or a cand.polit. or journalist, or whatever you may be; this is about what we all are, namely the Folketing. We have a government that equips its power, and that power can only be taken from one place, and it is from us as Parliament. So why has Mr. Does Khader have confidence in the official apparatus which has, on several occasions, been overruled by the courts? That's what we want to do, and not just that he's got it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183004	After all, we have a tradition in Denmark that politicians and governments come and go while the office is in place. In other countries you almost change everything, and then you have to start over. I think it is a very fine tradition that we have in Denmark that the official work serves the current government regardless of the colour, and they do so in the best possible way. I've wanted some other assessments on several occasions. I remember when we proposed a ban on burka in 2009, there was an assessment that I totally disagreed with, and I would have liked other assessments there. However, to have to set up a Constitutional Council because we sometimes disagree with the assessments, I am not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183057	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183105	New citizens share the concern that in a number of cases questions arise about the understanding and interpretation of the words of the Constitution in the parliamentary work. When we speak the European Union, when we speak immigration, when we speak Islam, areas that have far-reaching consequences for the development of our society................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is possible that lawyers' interpretation is correct, and we do not, as a starting point, have any mistrust of the official work, but lawyers' interpretation is rarely verified. When we see how, in other circumstances, there are judgments overruled by the courts, we find that a Constitutional Council, which could contribute with an impartial assessment, could be beneficial. However, we have doubts as to whether it is true that the members of the Council should be appointed by the Minister for Justice, and we also have a real concern that a Constitutional Council will anyway fall into the slippage of the Ministry of Justice's crown lawyers for the sole reason that it is the Supreme Court that always has the last word, so it would therefore be risky to be less cautious than the officials of the Ministry of Justice. However, in recognition of the real problems that exist and in recognition of the real good intentions of the proposal, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183251	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183253	I would just like to mention, in relation to the very factual objection raised by Mrs Pernille Vermund, namely whether, as a member of a Constitutional Council, one dares to stand against the Ministry of Justice, that this is precisely why we say at the end of the proposal that one is appointed for a period of seven years, I think, and then cannot be reappointed. You know it's the 7-year period you work for, and then it's over. After all, it should give an opportunity to say that one dares to challenge established authorities as well, as the Ministry of Justice is. So I hope that Mrs Pernille Vermund will at least see that we have tried to take that objection into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183333	I am not so worried about whether the individual lawyer dares it, because I think what the rapporteur says has been incorporated into the proposal. What I am worried about is that such advice tends to have its own culture, and if culture first becomes that, in order to get what I have to say, the respect that one would like to have, preferably should not make too many mistakes, there is a real risk with the kind of advice that they take on the safe side. We still think it would be appropriate to have the possibility of an independent assessment and, as has been said earlier today, it is not clear from the Constitution that this should be in the Ministry of Justice. It might as well have been somewhere else as a starting point. So that risk is there, and it is there, whether it is in the Ministry of Justice, in an impartial council, or how to adjust. It's just a risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183428	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183429	I fully agree with that. What I have written is, of course, that the Council is put together in accordance with the tradition known to it by the Criminal Law Council and the Court of Justice Council, but that the President is otherwise appointed by the President of the Supreme Court. So it has been attempted. However, I do not hear Mrs Pernille Vermund speak directly against the proposal, and I am just happy to hear Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt and Mrs Rosa Lunds say that we are, after all, parties who dare to speak against it. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183458	You're welcome. In relation to the matter of the Supreme Court: we sometimes encounter challenges, especially in those major policy areas, the European Union, Islam and immigration, which we are discussing, where it is said that it would be unconstitutional. We are all saying that there is something here that is not right, but the Constitution prevents us from doing the right thing. There is also the question of whether we should sometimes try to go all the way, in other words try to get it tested, because it has far-reaching consequences for our country that we, for example, should try to get it tested. commit us to paying benefits to foreigners who come to this country and do not contribute other positive values to our society. So it has a damaging effect on our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183542	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183550	Thank you. We support the motion for a resolution. This is a good resolution. It strengthens Parliament's ability to exercise democratic control over the government, and in something as important as constitutional issues it is not entirely appropriate that it be the Ministry of Justice, which may have a political interest in interpreting constitutional issues in a certain way, and which, so to speak, is the only authority able to make these estimates. So it is a good proposal, just as it is good that in a number of other areas we have independent advice, independent economists, and I shall come after you who can strengthen the work of the Folketing. So that is a good proposal and we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183638	Thank you. There are no brief comments, nor have any more rapporteurs asked to speak, apart from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. And this is sir. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519183653	Thank you, President. With the permission of the President, I would like to start by quoting: 'I can only say that when I look beyond the Chamber and think about which parties are here and my party has not moved in this matter, the closer one is to power, the stronger is the look that this type of rules is relevant. ▪ That was the Minister for Justice's word the other day when we discussed a change to the Public Service Act. More words: It is as if there is a tendency for the closer one gets to power and government offices, the stronger the look for such rules on ministerial service, etc. is reasonable, good and relevant. And if that's true, then this is, in addition to the ideal, a simple political struggle. It was a quote from the Minister of Justice: a simple political struggle. That is the crux of the matter. The question is what we, as Parliament, will accept should be for political struggle or, perhaps after decades when the government, as executive, has armed itself, taken over powers, is the time for us, as a parliament, to take part in this political struggle as well. This is basically about something as vital as being allowed to lay the foundations for the whole political debate. If we in the Folketing allow an authority with which we share power over this country to define key questions about how our constitution should be understood, how international acts should be understood, how decisions will come to pass if they come to justice, then we have tied ourselves on our hands and feet, but above all to a power with which we do not necessarily share interests. So it is not rare that a majority in the Folketing believes anything other than a government, and certainly not a one-party government. It is therefore not rare for a government to have its positions overruled in the independent courts. And when you reject this proposal, there's a good explanation, and that's a bad explanation. The bad explanation is that the Ministry of Justice is always right, even if the courts say otherwise. The poor explanation, however, is also the honest explanation: that when you are in government, you have no interest in sharing power with the Folketing. And that is exactly what is happening here, and that is why it is also interesting to see which parties support and which do not back up. Without such a generalisation, it must be said that it is in those parties where the ministerial car and access to the ministerial offices are closest to the idea that this is a really bad idea. Or as the Minister for Justice said the other day: "It is as if there is a tendency that the closer one gets to power and government offices, the stronger the look for such rules on ministerial service etc. is reasonable, good and relevant. If you are a minister, you have no interest in someone coming up with a different opinion about what your ministry might say. Then you only have one interest, and that is to hold on to the right to define. The question we have to ask ourselves today is whether we, as legislators, as those who have assumed a constitutional duty to control the government, share that interest. And it is not a subjugation of the super-qualified lawyers in the Ministry of Justice or other parts of the state administration. I know several of them, have read with them, and I would say that they surpass me with miles of legal insight and balance. No, what is at stake is that we must also protect them from people who are more concerned with power than with the division of power. Because even though we now have one of the most transparent, well-functioning, open democracies, the Constitution is not just designed in an ideal state. The Constitution in its wisdom is also designed on what is not ideal, on a situation in which the irreelles come to power. It is therefore a duty for us legislators such as those who have to control the government to ensure that there are never too many shifts between the three power units: judicial, legislative and executive. It is not a denial of anyone's competence or objectivity. It is just an insistence on what we are elected for. Unfortunately, we just have to say, or do we even have to say, unfortunately? Because it is a natural thing that officials in the Ministry of Justice may also be wrong that it is obvious that cases that have started in the Ministry of Justice have been overruled by the courts. Does this mean that the decisions taken by the courts are 100% correct? Not necessarily, but that means they're final. The way we have chosen to set up power here in the country is that when the Supreme Court has spoken, the Supreme Court is right, even if the Supreme Court may have been wrong it is a quote from a Supreme Court president, perhaps with a small rewrite, but it is not quite wrong. And that is the whole point: if this democracy is to work, we have to respect each other's different areas of responsibility. Then the government will have to respect court rulings that go against it, and so are we in the Folketing. Then the Folketing has to respect the government's powers as executive as well as the courts, and the courts are bound to respect the government and us. But that only happens if we start with self-respect. And there I am concerned that the very great power mentioned by the Ministries of the Thin case, the Holck case, has been mentioned, a number of foreign policy matters have been mentioned; we could also discuss section 70 of the Constitution, and there were also several rapporteurs who mentioned proposals from my party that there are plenty of areas that raise constitutional discussions. The problem is just today that the Ministry of Justice has become a debate stopper and that the Ministry of Justice is no more infallible than the rest of us. For this reason, there is a need not necessarily for German or Swedish inspiration, but perhaps as a further development of a Danish tradition... an independent body that can strengthen the Folketing. In fact, I believe that this will also be in the long run in the interest of the government to keep the debate on track, to make it as nuanced as possible and to ensure that the officials are kept in check if one day we should have a dirty minister. That is why I would like to sign up to those parties that have wanted to back this proposal. From SF and Enhedslisten I heard many commending notes and the same from New Civilians I am delighted. I am surprised that a party such as the Conservative People's Party, which is normally on the side of the rule of law, seems to have capitulated to power in this matter. It seems that we are still hoping that the government offices will wait just around the corner, and this is an honest matter, which must not least be thanked to the Minister for being completely open about it just does not change the fact that this is not Parliament's case, and that the only person who, in this Chamber, can therefore have an interest in speaking against this proposal is, in fact, the Minister for Justice, as he does, incidentally. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519184517	Thank you. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519184532	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519184603	Thank you. The motion for a resolution expresses a desire to oblige the government to launch a survey of anti-Semitism in Denmark, including the extent and origin of anti-Semitism. This is not a new debate; no later than 28 January of this year we had a question debate on F 23, where all parties across the board actually adopted a joint proposal for adoption o that we want anti-Semitism to be eradicated in Denmark. We will not accept that extremist environments express hatred of minorities and try to challenge our fundamental democratic values, our common freedom and the security of all of us. At the same time, we must note that there is increasing anti-Semitism, both globally, in Europe and in Denmark. At home we saw it so clearly marked by the terrorist attack on the Jewish synagogue back in 2015, but also the events on the anniversary of the crystal night last November made it clear that anti-Semitism is still alive. That is the reason why we then adopted the proposal for adoption following the debate on the question. As a result, the government has started work on an anti-Semitism action plan; an inter-ministerial working group has been set up and we are doing a fairly thorough job. One of the things in it is that the holocaust needs to be remembered. Soon the last survivors will be gone, and therefore it is important that we make an extra effort to remember history so that it does not repeat itself and that we carry it on to future generations, even when no one can tell about it any more. Because if we do not carry that story with us and do not ensure that it is passed on to future generations, there is at least a greater risk of history repeating itself. And under no circumstances must this happen, and that is why the holocaust must be remembered. We want education about it in primary and secondary education, and we want more information about anti-Semitism, about the Holocaust and about Jewish life in Denmark in general. And we must note that anti-Semitism exists both on the extreme right, in some immigrant environments and on parts of the extreme left. We must not be concerned about the discussions we had in the past about what a democracy must do to protect itself and we must take a determined approach to these trends and to these environments. The amazing thing about it is that we all really agree, I think, completely one to one as far as I have come now. And so the Danish People's Party today says that a survey of anti-Semitism must be made in Denmark, including the extent and origin of anti-Semitism. But who really disagrees? The action plan we are working towards is about the extent and origin, but also about the causes, forms of expression, dynamics and effects of anti-Semitism. The more we know, the more targeted we can fight it. We need more knowledge about anti-Semitism and we need to map out the knowledge that is out there, both in Denmark and at European level. Since the mapping of anti-Semitism in Denmark and its extent, causes and origins are already part of the work that is under way, today's resolution is, in fact, merely a confirmation of the work that we have started. Following on from the debate we have just had, I can hear some people say: yes, yes, you are flirting with that over there in the Ministry of Justice, and what about all of us who are going to represent the people? But there I have already made the promise during the question debate that I will invite all parties of the Danish Parliament to the work on the action plan. And when I do, I'm sure some people will sit and think: you don't, because you're a good person. That's probably true. I am doing this first of all because this is an agenda that we should share, on which we shared in January and which we still share. So shouldn't we hold on to moving forward together? So when the government's working group finishes its initial work, I will invite all parties into the work where we can then discuss concrete initiatives. This also applies to initiatives, should it be desired, for more research and knowledge on anti-Semitism. I expect that we will be able to hold these negotiations in the autumn, and now I know that it is the role of every opposition to say that, whatever they say as a government, it is too late, too little and too bad, at least one of the things, but this is actually a reasonable priority. Despite the corona crisis, etc. It is still the ambition that in the autumn we can sit down together and, on the basis of the preparatory work that has been done, make an ambitious action plan against anti-Semitism in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185208	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185210	I can assure the Minister for Justice that there are quite a lot of government initiatives that we have no haste to get through just to make it clear. So this is not a general trend. When we present this motion for a resolution and maintain it, it is because we are afraid that it will be a pure pot of jelly, that is to say what the government is doing. I'm gonna do one of those things. I should like to refer to an answer to a question addressed to the Committee on Children's and Education on 26 March, when the committee asks about the problem of anti-Semitism in the education sector and where the Minister of Education chooses to avoid it with anti-Semitism and only points to a lack of religious tolerance. And this shows that this is the way to try to make it a more broad concept: a general concern about the general condition of religious minorities, etc. And that's not what we want. What we want is a mapping of exactly the conditions of the Jewish people in this country, because we can see that it really is going on in these years. That is why I would just like the Minister for Justice's assurance that this is also what we are doing and then, moreover, confirmation of whether this motion for a resolution can be supported from the point of view of the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185324	Well, the action plan we are making concerns anti-Semitism. It is true that there is also reason to work with hate crimes in another context. We will do the same. I am also a member of parliament, but in this context I am first and foremost a minister, which is why I am not going to take part in the committee's work in this way, but I think that the best thing the committee can do is to agree that this is a relevant problem, and I think that all the parties in the parliament are agreed to write a report which makes it clear that this is how it should be. I think that would be the most relevant thing, i.e. that all the parties in the Folketing say that this is the path we want to move forward, and that this should be included in the action plan or whatever you can agree on. But we must maintain the consensus we have had and established in the Folketing across, from right to left and all around, that anti-Semitism is not what we want, and that is because anti-Semitism is, in my opinion, the expression of...
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185428	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185431	I agree that anti-Semitism is unspeakable and I think that is what the Minister for Justice wanted to say with it. What I just did not get the answer to was: does the Minister support the proposal here? When this proposal is adopted, it will be a strong signal to the working group currently in office. And it will be even stronger if the Minister for Justice, who is also a member of the Folketing, therefore presses the green button.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185509	What I wanted to say was that in reality anti-Semitism is a distillation of the worst that is happening in our society, namely that totalitarian ideologies show their terrible face again: Nazism, fascism, communism, Islamism. They are the banners of anti-Semitism. And that's why it's so important that we do it. I think, as I said before, that the wisest thing to do is to make a report in committee which maintains consensus. When I put it that way, it is because I am afraid that if I know the Danish Parliament right, you will otherwise find a hair in the soup about something in the explanatory statement that you do not agree with. And thus we risk having a divided Parliament, but you must judge that for yourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185555	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185557	Thank you for the floor. After all, we have already made a proposal for adoption in which we agree that we must put an end to this disgusting work. The next thing is that the Minister says that a working group has been set up which, as I understand it and now the Minister has to correct me if I am wrong to make this motion for a resolution superfluous, that is to say that the mapping of anti-Semitism, including its scope and origin, is already in the work of the Minister of Justice. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185641	That is absolutely correct. As I said: since the survey of anti-Semitism in Denmark, its scale, its causes and its origins, is already part of the work, the resolution is, in my opinion, merely confirmation of the work being done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185659	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments. Then we start with the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185716	Thank you. I was very pleased that in January we had a debate on anti-Semitism, where opinions were also allowed to be aired, but where what was left was, of course, that an entirely unanimous Parliament adopted a joint proposal for adoption. It's not that often. And, of course, we could, because there is no one in the Folketing who can live with the situation in which Jews experience a deterioration in their ability to actually move freely in Danish society and where we are in a situation in Europe where Jews move away from the countries in which they were born and raised because they feel pressured out. We cannot accept that; we will not accept it. And anti-Semitism exists in Danish society. We must do away with that, and above all we must talk openly about it. We must find the reasons for this, and we must take action against it. That is why I am very pleased that in January we had the debate, that we had a united Parliament and that we started the work, including, as the Minister for Justice has explained, precisely the work that this motion for a resolution deals with, but in fact more than that. And then you can have various motions for resolutions along the way requiring the government to carry out a study that is part of the action plan, or to require the government to produce educational material that is part of the action plan, etc. etc. And that is why I hope that we can maintain that consensus, establish a common starting point and also look forward to participating together in the work on drawing up that action plan. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185859	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185900	I certainly do not think that the rapporteur should see this resolution as an expression of disagreement, but rather as an expression of impatience. Well, it's almost six months since we've had our last debate on this important theme, and Jews are still gone around in Danish society, who unfortunately have to fear going with kippa and generally professing their faith in public space. That is why I would like to ask: when will something come from the government? I know it might have to be addressed to the Minister for Justice, but I'm sure that Mr. Jeppe Bruus is closer to the Minister of Justice than I am, which is why Mr. Jeppe Bruus may answer: When will something come, so that we can solve these intolerable problems for Jews in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519185950	At least I'm physically closer right now. And I also remember the Minister of Justice saying that in the autumn we will sit together. And with all due respect for the Danish People's Party, I fully share what is in the text here, but also the enthusiasm. I can be annoyed that we have now been through four years, with anti-Semitism, with the Danish People's Party as the largest bourgeois party, without us making this action plan. That is why I welcome the fact that this work is now under way and that we in the Danish Parliament can tackle it together and get something done about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190020	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190023	I would just like to say that we have constantly raised this issue, so I am glad that we are now, hopefully, in the agreement that has been put forward for the autumn, able to conclude and ensure that all the problems that we then agree on are resolved. But I also hope that the Social Democrats will enter into this with an undogmatic approach. It could be that there were some unpleasant things in relation to others. immigration policy, which may emerge when the scales fall from the eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190057	Well, in no way do I have any barriers to putting things on the table as they are. That is also why, during the debate in January, including myself, we were very explicit in that this exists, both on the extreme left and on the right, and not least among the environments in Denmark which have a character of Islamism. I just think we should talk about this, and that is why I hope that we can agree on a text in committee and work on the action plan that has been set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190128	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190145	How would I wish I could reject the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party with the words: there is no need for that; there is no anti-Semitism in Denmark, so what on earth are we going to do with an explanation of the extent? The scope is zero; anti-Semitism has been left behind; it is an ugly chapter in the history of Europe and the world that we do not want to repeat. Unfortunately, it's not quite that simple. There is anti-Semitism in Denmark and anti-Semitism in Denmark is also expressed in words, in deeds and deeds. That is why I should like to thank the Danish People's Party for having tabled this motion for a resolution. We don't know how much anti-Semitism there is. Sometimes fear may also be talked up too much, but unfortunately there is no doubt that anti-Semitism is here in our society. It thrives in extremist environments on what is called the right wing, that is, the Nazis, and it thrives among Islamists and also among forces on the extreme left, who have little difficulty in knowing the difference between the state of Israel and then Jews in Denmark. In order to combat a problem, we need to know the extent of the problem, and that is what the Danish People's Party proposes with its resolution, which has the warm support of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190326	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190443	Thank you for the floor. We have recently had an important and relevant debate on anti-Semitism in Denmark. By January at the latest, all parties of the Folketing agreed on a proposal for adoption by a question on the subject. For unfortunately, the terrible event that was carried out last year on the anniversary of the crystal night was targeted as a hate crime against the Jewish minority in Denmark at a Jewish burial place in Randers. The signal was unmistakable. The combination of the date and the sacred goal was disgusting in every way possible. That was unacceptable and it is all anti-Semitism, regardless of the sender. Much suggests that right-wing extremists were behind this, but anti-Semitism is unacceptable, whether it be left-wing extremists, people from Islamic radicalised environments or as right-wing extremists here. Because neither anti-Semitic nor other hate crimes belong in a democracy. At the same time, it is important that we focus on all kinds of hate crimes, hatecrimes, regardless of background, religion, sexuality, disability or anything else. Freedom rights apply to everyone, and when we see the records of the National Police, we can see that unfortunately the number of hate crimes does not fall. Unfortunately, the anti-Semitic events of recent years have led to a necessary increase in security measures and guarding, for the Jewish community must know that we are always there for them. In a democratic society, no minorities should be exposed. Everyone has to be able to walk freely in the street like who you are and be who you are. Against this background, all the parties of the Folketing, as I have noted, have said that something needs to be done about this. The government has heard this, and it is therefore in the process of organising a national action plan, which the Radical Left can warmly support. Anti-Semitism must be combated with knowledge and awareness, and I note that this action plan also includes a study of the background to anti-Semitism. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the matter and to the government for having already acted on the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190736	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190742	I'm sorry, sir. Kristian Hegaard has fallen for a social democratic spin number here, because the proposal for adoption, which we could unanimously vote for back in January, says that the purpose of the study launched by the government is to strengthen the public's knowledge and awareness of the rise in anti-Semitism. But what we would like to have is not just an information campaign, so that awareness is strengthened. What we want is also to look into the dark hole where it comes from and find out what the roots of it are, because it is not enough for enlightened citizens to know that there is anti-Semitism in Denmark. It is also essential to know why it comes from. That is, of course, the difference between the proposal for adoption we had back in January, which everyone voted for, and the resolution we have here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190836	First of all, I am pleased that we have refuted the questioner's assertion earlier here today that only young people fought for freedoms. I think this debate basically shows that we are all fighting for freedoms, for this debate. In view of what the questioner is asking, namely whether radicals have fallen into a socialist spin trick, I would say that I do not think we are, because being aware of something is also about the causes of it. So I think the questioner is looking for some flies in the soup or some hair in the soup that isn't there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190915	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190915-2	So let me just ask this: is the Radical Left's expectation that the process which the government has now set in motion will also be mapped out both the roots and the motives of the anti-Semitism that is in Denmark? That's what's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519190934	I feel fully covered by and fully secure by the assurance that the Minister has provided in the debate that we will clarify what is important about anti-Semitism in this action plan, and I am sure that when all parties are invited to do so, we will make some very good contributions to it and move on to it, because unfortunately that is necessary. We have just seen this in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191003	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Radical Left. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur, so thank you. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191024	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for keeping the debate on anti-Semitism under discussion. I think this is an important debate, and it is also for the SF. No one should feel threatened because of their race or religion, including the Jews in Denmark. It is not so long ago that we had the big question debate on this in the Danish Parliament, and I think that some of what was so strong in that debate was that the whole parliament gathered for a proposal for adoption which not only condemned anti-Semitism but also agreed that there should be an action plan to combat it. One of the elements of the plan, which is also mentioned in the joint motion for a resolution, is precisely the need to strengthen people's knowledge and awareness of anti-Semitism. I think that is good, because knowledge often holds the potential for change. And as I hear the Minister of Justice today, you're, in fact, already gaining this knowledge. I can see what the Danish People's Party means in relation to the gaps in Danish knowledge of anti-Semitism in a European context, but I think it is right that we await the government's action plan, especially when the Minister has said that the work is in progress and that knowledge is also an element. Unfortunately, we cannot be in any doubt that anti-Semitism exists in Denmark. This testifies to the necessary and massive guarding of Jewish institutions, and I think it is a really regrettable development in a country where democratic values such as freedom, equality and citizenship are proud. I look forward to the government's action plan, and I hope that soon we will see something from the government.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191223	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191226	I am, of course, pleased that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt and myself agree that we would also like to see not just one spade stick deeper, but all the way down through this black chapter in modern Danish history and find out what is behind it. What I just can't quite understand is why you can't just vote for this resolution, so that we get both at the same time. Well, what the government has set in motion is about spreading knowledge. That is a good thing; I fully agree with Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt that it is the beginning or the beginning that you can then start working in the opposite direction and counteract this darkness. But we also need to know where it comes from, and that is why I cannot understand why this proposal cannot be supported, so that we make sure that it is also part of the action plan presented by the government in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191313	Well, as I am listening to, the work is already under way, and I think it is right for the process to now wait for that action plan and see what comes out of it. After all, it takes a good foundation to make a good action plan, and knowledge is, what can be said, a prerequisite for making one of these. At the moment, this work is, of course, in progress, and I think it is perhaps a bit of a joke that this resolution is being tabled in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191343	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191345	I can only assure Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt that a lot of messing with, but not this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191356	Well, of course I shall not be able to say what the intention of the Danish People's Party is to put forward the proposal, but I think it is a bit strange, since we have agreed among a broad majority in the Assembly that we want to put an end to anti-Semitism and there will be an action plan to table a resolution so soon after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191420	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191430	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we want to help identify and combat anti-Semitism. That is why we are very pleased that, as we have said a few times now, we have a joint statement from earlier this year on the importance of combating anti-Semitism. It is a united Parliament which agrees that it is important to combat anti-Semitism. That is why we are also very pleased that the government has started the things that we agreed on in the very thorough debate we had earlier this year on that particular issue. Having said that, I would also like to say that we would like to see a much broader identification and fight against racism, xenophobia, harassment and persecution of ethnic and religious minorities in Denmark. Intolerance and harassment of people who look different, speak other languages or have a different faith is unfortunately not something that is exclusively directed at our Jewish minorities. This is a proposal, for example. put forward by a party that, more than anything else in this country over the last 25 years, has succeeded in setting an xenophobic agenda and dividing our society into them and us by creating artificial contradictions between so-called Danes and so-called Muslims. The truth is that the vast majority of Muslims in this country are at the same time good Danish citizens who want to live in peace and happiness with the rest of us, including with our Jewish fellow citizens. The comments to this motion for a resolution repeatedly emphasise that it is Muslims who are behind anti-Semitism, and this, despite the fact that last month the East Jutland Police were able to indict two men for a very visible example of anti-Semitism, namely the overpainting of 84 Jewish gravestones in a cemetery in Randers last November. In addition to the vandalism against the Jewish tombstones, the two men are accused of vandalism against a rainbow-colored bench and a left-wing book café. If you are to believe the police charges, their anger and hatred are directed not only against Jews, but also against people and socialists. In the media, the two men have been referred to as neo-Nazis, not Muslims. Having said that, Muslims who commit anti-Semitic acts have been declared. If we go back to February 2015, a man who must be described as a violent extremist Islamist committed a targeted killing of a guard from the Jewish congregation at the synagogue in Copenhagen. Islamist anti-Semitism is found in extremist circles. It must be taken seriously and it must be combated. But Denmark, and I think we should remember this, is primarily a country where Jews and Muslims live peacefully side by side. We see this when the Jewish community in Denmark on Twitter wants a happy Ramadan. We see it when Danish Muslims, after the terrible events in February 2015, help to form a protective human chain around the synagogue in Krystalgade here in Copenhagen, and we see it in the association The Brobygers, which consists of both Jews and Muslims. The Enhedslisten wants to identify and combat all forms of racism and xenophobia, including anti-Semitism. But we do not fight anti-Semitism by putting one minority on the head with the other or by creating xenophobia by appointing a certain ethnic or religious minority to constitute the problem. I would also like to say that it seems a little strange to adopt this resolution when, at the same time, we know that there is work going on in the government, on which we all actually agreed. But in the Enhedslisten, we are very concerned about fighting anti-Semitism. Therefore, we would very much like to participate very actively in a committee work on this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party. For Jews in Denmark and their homes and their institutions must be protected, and knowledge of anti-Semitism and any other persecution of ethnic or religious minorities must be on the agenda, it must be on the school schedule. Police action against hatecrimes must also be strengthened. We are absolutely convinced that this will also help protect the Jewish minority in Denmark. So the Danish People's Party raises an important debate here, which highlights something that we all, fortunately, agree on: anti-Semitism does not belong anywhere. Thanks to DF for raising the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519191933	Thank you, President. I was glad that Mrs Rosa Lund finally came to the conclusion that this was an important debate and even thanked the Danish People's Party for raising it, because then it could not be completely superfluous. The fact is that the proposal for adoption back in January is only about dissemination and knowledge. We want to know what the motives are. Although Mrs Rosa Lund's speech here already seems to be able to conclude who is behind and not behind anti-Semitism in Denmark, I assume that Mrs Rosa Lund is aware that there is absolutely no research on the Danish side. All we have is a Norwegian research report which deals with different European countries. There Mrs Rosa Lund is absolutely right that it is not the case that only Muslims are behind anti-Semitism. I do not think that Mrs Rosa Lund can be reproduced in this resolution either. In France, for example, the report shows that it is only 53 per cent. of the cases, and in Sweden it is only 51 per cent. of cases. In Britain it is 36%. of cases. Then Mrs Rosa Lund can see for herself the order and perhaps put it in relation to the Muslim population in the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192043	Now I am dealing with the things that are happening in Denmark. I also think I said very clearly in my rapporteur's speech that anti-Semitism exists in extremist Islamist circles. But I also take note of the fact that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt easily jumps over the fact that in the last indictment for anti-Semitism, which has been very clear anti-Semitism, i.e. vandalism against burial sites, it is thus two men who most likely belong to a neo-Nazi organization that is accused. It's not like I made this up. It's the East Jutland Police who's indicted it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192120	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192122	I don't know where Mrs. Lund gets it from that I'm jumping over something. In other words, it is I who have proposed to have this mapped out; it is Mrs Rosa Lund who is problematical. But let us not talk further away from each other than we seem to be. I just need to know if Enhedslisten supports this proposal. Does the Enhedslist intend to vote yes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192143	We are very much looking forward to having this motion for a resolution in a committee debate, because we would like to discuss it further precisely because we believe that there is not only a need to identify anti-Semitism issues. We have a need to map out the issue of racism and the persecution of religious minorities in Denmark at all, and I would simply like to see it so if Morten Messerschmidt and I could agree on that, just as we agree that we do not like anti-Semitism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192209	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192213	Thank you for the floor. In her rapporteur's speech, Mrs Lund says that we should not use one minority to beat the other minority in the head. And at the same time, Mrs. Rosa Lund mentions, I think it was extremist Islamists they get such new names every time they and Nazis. Does Mrs Rosa Lund and the Enhedslisten generally recognise that it is Muslims, perhaps primarily from the area around Palestine, who also have a problem with Jews, and that on the extreme left there is anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192258	I can begin by reassure Mrs Pernille Vermund that in the part of the left to which I and the Enhedslist belong, anti-Semitism has no place at all. We are doing everything we can to combat it, and we are the first to arrange crystal night arrangements. It was also Enhedslisten in Randers who organized a torch parade when there was this terrible vandalism. So that's one thing. The second point is that I fully acknowledge this, and I also said that there is anti-Semitism in Islamist circles. But I do not think we should use it to cut all Muslims across one comb; I certainly do not want to do that. And I think that saying Islamist is more indicative of where anti-Semitism exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192344	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192346	This is interesting, for the studies of anti-Semitism that exist studies from Sweden, Germany, Great Britain and France do not talk about Islamists or extremist Islamists; they talk about Muslims. So where does Mrs Rosa Lund get it from, that the Muslims who have a problem with Jews should be Islamists or extremist Islamists?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192415	Well, I am, for example. familiar with the fact that the organisation Hizb ut-Tahir is anti-Semites. I would describe them as very extreme Islamists. I think that is very concrete knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192430	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192434	Thank you. I also took note of the fact that such a survey was not to be used for one minority to beat the other minority in the head, or for one minority to be protected by striking the other minority in the head. I do not remember the exact wording, but the point is then clear anyway, because what was said between the lines is that one does not want to make it clear that the Muslim minority in Denmark is one of the heaviest causes of increasing anti-Semitism. But mapping the causes of anti-Semitism, including in Muslim environments, is not equal to striking a minority on top of its head? Well, how does that equal to hitting a minority on top of your head? Does this mean that there are other kinds of knowledge and facts that we cannot have mapped out and presented in relation to Muslim environments in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192535-2	Well, we just agree that there has to be a survey. We are in complete agreement with that. All the way through, we have backed up the idea that there should be a survey. I also started my speech by saying this, and I ended my speech by saying that we think that this mapping can be made more broadly, that we also need someone who is concerned, for example. racism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192558	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192600	So we support the proposal to identify the causes and reasons of origin, so to speak, of anti-Semitism in Denmark, but we want to spread it out. It is, of course, a little the reverse of the discussion we had earlier today by the Freedom Commission. In fact, I would just like to call on the Enhedslisten to support what we are in agreement with, and then we can also put forward a proposal that a similar resolution should be drawn up in relation to other forms of racism. However, I should just like to understand what makes Enhedslisten reluctant to support this proposal if it is that we fully agree that we should have identified the causes of increasing anti-Semitism in Denmark and that there is no fear of contact with a Muslim minority or in relation to discovering whether anti-Semitism is also leading to anti-Semitism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192646	We would just like to discuss whether it is not possible to spread that survey, because anti-Semitism is also hate for a particular population group. That is why it is a form of racism. Therefore, we in the Enhedslisten think it might be interesting to map it wider. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. Speaking of hate crimes, we can unfortunately see that the Jewish minority is being subjected to hate crimes, but unfortunately we can also see that other religious minorities are being subjected to hate crimes. Therefore, it is interesting to look at how widespread this is in Danish society and what the reasons are for it and where it is. So it's basically just a matter of extending the good deed, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192732	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192736	Thank you. I am pleased that the President has made a brief comment. I mean, I think the debate is turning a little away here. I would like to congratulate Enhedslisten for participating in the joint proposal for adoption in January, which the whole parliament was behind. And I also hear very clearly the Enhedslisten's rapporteur say that we are in fact supporting what is in substance here. Then I think that Mr. I do not know whether it is conscious or unconscious to neglect the proposal for adoption to deal only with a little communication campaign and a little community stuff. That's not true. The Minister for Justice has made it very clear that what is here is indeed covered by the action plan under way. That's what this is about. That is what we agree on. That is why I welcome the announcement that we must continue to work on it, including in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192823	Well, we would very much like to continue working on both this resolution and, of course, also participate very actively in what comes from the government and which we also hope will spread further than just in the field of justice. That is exactly what we have agreed, as the Minister for Justice also mentioned in his speech: that this will also be about teaching material, that is, something that will normally be outside the Minister's own area of responsibility. Anyway, that's exactly what we're all preoccupied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192851	There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519192905	Jewish hatred is widespread. I prefer to call it Jewish hatred, because anti-Semitism also includes Arabs; they are also Semites, so I prefer the term Jewish hatred. And it has had some very serious consequences around the world, for example in the Arab world, where in the 1900s there were over 1 million Jews. Now we are down to 4,000-5000, mainly in Tunis and Morocco. And the Jews are not going through the same fate here in Western Europe as in the Middle East. In some countries they migrate, such as France, as a result of Jewish hatred. That is why it is extremely important that we act on it and stop it. And then I would like to make it clear that Jewish hatred, regardless of its roots and motives, is totally unacceptable and must be combated. And we should not put up with this happening in Denmark at all. Unfortunately, however, there have been several examples of harassing and persecuting Jews. There must be a serious fight with Jewish hatred in Denmark. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party here today. It is certainly appropriate that this area, its origin and its cause be looked at more closely. And in this respect, it is important to point out that the Conservative People's Party is certainly looking forward to illuminating the area, and we share many of the concerns of the Danish People's Party mentioned in the motion for a resolution. In any case, we welcome today's debate and also the one we had in January. We are in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. At the same time, I note that the government and the Minister for Justice are saying here that there is an action plan on the way, which also includes several of the elements mentioned in the resolution. And we're really, really happy about that. What is important to us is that it is acted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519193142	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519193151	Thank you. In the 1930s it was the Nazis who caused the Jewish people a disaster of immense proportions. Unfortunately, Nazism has not disappeared from our society. We are still experiencing attacks against Jews and Jewish symbols from Nazis, and we saw on the crystal night of November how burial sites were desecrated and private mailboxes were marked with Jewish stars. The nasty nature of Nazism must be combated by all democratic means. But today the hatred against Jews is not only directed by Nazis, for it also comes from Muslims who make random Jews responsible for the policy of the Israeli state, and from people on the left who believe that they can hide their anti-Semitism behind a political smokescreen, which is about opposition to the Jews having their own country, and they claim that it has nothing to do with anti-Semitism. It has all Research from Sweden, Germany, Britain and France clearly shows that the vast majority of the anti-Semitic events that Jews have experienced come from people with Muslim backgrounds. In our neighbouring country of Sweden, where migration from Muslim countries has been particularly high, Muslims are behind more than half of the events. The same is true in France. And in three out of the four countries studied, the left-wing is responsible for most of the anti-Semitic events that Jews have experienced. In Denmark we do not have figures of where anti-Semitism comes from, and we must have that. We know that Denmark is the country where most Jews choose to hide their identity in public spaces, and that Jews cannot move freely in immigrant dense areas, was the reason that we were more than 500 Danes who in the summer of 2014 walked through Nørrebro with Jewish symbols. We also know that the threat posed by resident Muslims to Jewish society is so high that the Jewish private school, Caroline School, and the Jewish synagogue in Krystalgade are guarded by police and military respectively. And we know that the greatest attack against Jews in Denmark in our lifetime was committed by the Palestinian terrorist Omar El-Hussein, who targeted the Jewish synagogue in Copenhagen and killed the young Jew Dan Uzan because he was a Jew. Anti-Semitism is still here, and its disgusting being draws dark clouds over the existence of too many Jews in Denmark. The Jewish community has trained their own security specialists to protect the synagogue in Copenhagen. Security specialists are guarding the entrances and monitoring the entire area. As a guest, you are let in through a safety lock, and around the small courtyard behind the synagogue there are additional security measures. What if the many young people who will be confirmed in the country's national churches in the coming months should be protected accordingly? We would never Jews in Denmark should not live with threats to life and body, they should be able to move freely and live freely in safety for themselves, their children and their families. We owe it to the Danish Jews to map where anti-Semitism comes from to ensure that its disgusting nature is kept down and out of our society. I am pleased that, on behalf of a united Parliament, the government has already initiated a survey which this motion for a resolution deals with and, although it may thus seem a little superfluous in that context, of course New citizens support the resolution, because this cannot be supported often enough and many times enough. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519193613	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519193623	I have also said this before: anti-Semitism is the canary in the coal mine when it comes to free society, and anti-Semitism has always been a secondary disease to extremism and to collectivist ideologies. It has always been a secondary disease. It is such a malicious weed plant, and of course we need clarity about it so that we can tear it up with a mess. That is all we can be familiar with Jewish Danes. The National Police are already mapping hate crimes, where anti-Semitism is one of the categories, and I note there are more hate crimes against Muslims recorded than there are against Jews. 67 hate crimes against Muslims have been registered, while 38 against Jews have been registered between 2015 and 2017. But bearing in mind that Jewish Danes make up a few thousand in this country, while Muslims make up several hundred thousand, the number of anti-Semitic hate crimes is very overwhelming, and the hate crime is only such the flower of the weed plant. It comes from somewhere, from a way of speaking and thinking about Jews that demonize and dehumanize the Jews. There, of course, it is relevant to find out who plants and nourishes and waters such weeds, and we could probably guess for a few possible answers. Some of this is about the fact that there are still some who, for completely incomprehensible reasons, can find inspiration in a Nazi ideology, although it is a disgrace on our continent and our history and will always be so. But we must probably also recognise openly and honestly that anti-Semitism in Denmark is rarely a weed plant, which we Danes themselves go and wound, even if there are examples of it. On the contrary, we are all familiar with examples of what is being preached by terrible things about Jews. It is often something that can fly under the radar because it is preached in a language that most of us do not understand, but it is therefore still time for us to clarify and clarify the origin of anti-Semitism so that sights can be packed away and facts can be put on the table. All too often there are explanations in this debate on anti-Semitism. One of the most popular explanations is that much anti-Semitism in Denmark and, incidentally, other European countries can be attributed or attributed to the behaviour of the state of Israel in the Middle East. It is worth noting here that the state of Israel is actually the only democracy in the Middle East and that it is surrounded by enemies who want to destroy them. I think it is a bit bizarre that it should be the state that is responsible for anti-Semitism. But it is of course true that anti-Semitism and criticism of the state of Israel are two different things, and there may well be plenty of legitimate criticism of the state of Israel, which is not anti-Semitic. But questioning the Jewish people's right to a state, yes, it is anti-Semitism, and it is probably also one of the main causes of the rise in anti-Semitism in Denmark. But it would be wise to map it, to bring it out into the light, so that we know by what means it should be driven out, so that we can get rid of this malicious weed plant. That is why the Liberal Alliance also supports this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519194018	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. This is the time to give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519194029	Thank you, President-in-Office, for the floor. Several people have argued that this proposal is totally superfluous, given that there is already work in the government, and it is good if the government is about it, especially on such an important and important issue. However, when we in the Danish People's Party have chosen to table and maintain this motion for a resolution, it is because it revolves around something other than the proposal for adoption which a unanimous Parliament could quite rightly endorse earlier this year. It is not only about maintaining the memory of the holocaust, as the Minister said, but also about spreading knowledge of the disgusts that took place, as well as the anti-Semitism that exists in our modern society, but also about trying to get deeper and understand what is at stake. As the debate today will be a testament to, this is something that we can argue about, obviously because some have a responsibility for the immigration policy that has been conducted and others do not have a responsibility. We all have an interest in solving the problem, but history and judgment over history can be unpleasant. That is why there is nothing strange about the hard words that have fallen in relation to what the motives for putting forward this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party can now be. But let me just say quite briefly that when more than one in three Danish Jews believes that the level of anti-Semitism in Denmark has increased over the last five years, when three out of four Danish Jews experience anti-Semitism on the Internet, when one out of four Danish Jews is aware of an anti-Semitic incident, when eight out of ten Danish Jews often or occasionally avoid wearing symbols in the public space that can identify them as Jews, and when eight out of ten Danish Jews choose not to report the most serious anti-Semitic events they have experienced, that is enough reason for us not only to want to spread knowledge of these disgusting conditions, but also to find out who is behind it. I think no one in this Parliament has an interest in certain groups coming forward with others. No matter who's behind anti-Semitic assault, it's just disgusting. However, the data base we have, which is the Norwegian report I mentioned earlier, nevertheless gives a clear indication of how things have got to where they are today. That's 51 percent. of the cases in Sweden have Muslims as the backers, of course, do not that they 49 per cent. It doesn't matter, or it doesn't matter that 36%. in Britain have Muslims as a background, does not that they 64 percent. It doesn't matter, but it puts a big question mark over how things are here in Denmark, and maybe it could be a call to the government. In the work that is going on, one should also deal with other countries. Because we know very well that these disgusting networks, whether they are politically extreme groups or religiously extreme groups, work across borders. When a few years ago 25,000 Jews chose to leave Europe in 2015 and when we can generally see an exodus of the Jewish people from Europe, including from the Nordic countries, it is a sad capitulatory state that we all remember and build on the Jewish-Christian cultural heritage that is in Europe, have an interest in fighting. This proposal is therefore not an attempt to declare war against a government that so far seems not to have involved the Folketing significantly in the work. No, it is an attempt to inspire and make sure that the mapping we get is also adequate to say that Denmark is now taking the lead, that Denmark is now becoming the country that others can look at when it comes to combating anti-Semitism. We throw the glove, and we don't look at who's behind it, but only by knowing who's behind it. Because if we do not know who is behind it, we cannot ignore who is behind it, and that is why this is so important. So, with the largely positive comments that have been made, even from a minister who is in full swing, I would like to thank for the words that have fallen and hope that when it comes to the motivational analysis, the consensus that struck the Folketing back in January can continue. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519194558	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519194606	Thank you. First of all, I would like to sign up to the consensus that is in the debate that anti-Semitism is unacceptable, that it is disgusting and that it is something that we must act on. In this context, I would also like to acknowledge the Government's comments that a plan of action is in full operation, which also contains the wishes of the Danish People's Party today, and that in this way it can be said that the government came a little before the Danish People's Party. And there I would just hope that the Danish People's Party will take an active part in the work when we are called in, and will not stand on the sidelines and call it spin and something like that. But I believe and hope there is a good basis for that work after having attended and participated in today's debate. What I would like to ask at the end is whether the rapporteur recognises that other populations in Denmark are also being subjected to hetz and hate crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519194704	The rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519194706	Yes, I certainly do. In other words, the questioner can now read some of the things that have been written about me, and I think that over the last 20 years I have been subjected to a quite unreasonable hetz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519194719	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519194720	On this occasion, I would like to say that we now have a very good lead here with the anti-Semitic, where we agree that something needs to be done and where a work has been started. Will the Danish People's Party also take an active part in the work that goes on an equal footing with this fight against hate crimes against other minorities in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200519194740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519194740-2	Yes, well, I believe that crimes are crimes and must be prohibited, whether they are committed against one or the other group, i.e. whether it is Mr. Kristian Hegaard and or Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, or whoever it may be. Whether you are named Muhammad for your first name or Stein for your last name, it's completely unauthorized... crime must be forbidden, yes. It is implicit in the concept.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519194802	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200519194818	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 20 May 2020, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
