ParlaMint-DK_20200108130021	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 92 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Passport of Danish Nationals, etc.) The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). We are now moving on to the agenda, but we have the problem that the questioner has not come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130239	After a little misunderstanding, we can start the parliamentary work again. We have come to the first question, and it is to the Foreign Minister of Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130251	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130253	Thank you. What does the Foreign Minister think about the new Greek Government's establishment in October of a list of people who pose a security risk to the Greek people, where humanitarian aid to refugees is a qualifying act to be included and which has now led to the arrest of a person permanently associated with Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130311	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130312	Thank you. I would like to start by stating that the government fully supports the invaluable work of humanitarian organisations such as the United Nations. Danish Refugee Aid performs in Greece. The situation in and around the camps on the Greek islands is serious, especially after the increase in arrivals in 2019 compared to recent years. This is among other things. Therefore, the government is working for a new and fairer and humane asylum system. Following receipt of this question, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been in contact with the Greek Ministry of Civil Protection, which is responsible for police and immigration authorities. They state that humanitarian organisations wishing to work with refugees in Greece must be registered with the Ministry of Civil Protection. The Ministry has also indicated that there is no list of persons who pose a security risk and are therefore undesirable in Greece solely because of their humanitarian work. It can be added that since 2005 the Greek authorities have drawn up a list of undesirable foreign persons, the so-called national list of undesired foreigners. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, non-Greek citizens may be placed on this list if they are deemed to pose a threat to, among others. public health, public order and national security. As far as the specific case referred to in the question is concerned, I can only confirm that the Greek police have at some point detained a non-Danish national with permanent residence in Denmark. The Danish Embassy in Athens has provided usual consular assistance to the person who, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' information, has now been released and has left Greece.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130502	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130504	Well, it is very good that afterwards, after we have asked the question, there has been an investigation so that he has been released. But what does the Minister think of a situation in which people who provide only what we can call humanitarian aid are arrested? How can it happen in an EU country that it is described as an act justifying arrest?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130526	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130527	As I also mentioned in the reply, I can confirm that at some point the Greek police have detained a non-Danish national with permanent residence in Denmark. We provide consular assistance from the Danish side via the Embassy in Athens and, as mentioned above, the person is now released and left Greece. I would also like to say that I cannot provide any further information on the specific case of persons, as personal cases are subject to professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130600	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130601	Again, it's really good that this situation has been resolved. But what does the Minister think about the signal being sent here, where volunteers take down and remedy some totally hair-raising, grotesque humanitarian conditions for some people who are struggling to survive here, we have to deal with some volunteers who provide a helping hand to meet with one, we think, quite unfair behaviour by the Greek authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130632	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130633	As has been said, therefore, humanitarian organisations are doing an absolutely crucial job for the refugees and asylum seekers who arrive in Greece, including, among other things, Greece. It is, of course, crucial that the humanitarian organisations are free to carry out their work, and the government also has full confidence that they can do so in Greece. At the same time, it is always important that guests in another country respect the laws and regulations that apply in that country. So that is our clear position.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130702	Sir. Karsten Hønge for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130704	Does the Foreign Minister consider that it is conducive to the creation of a common European solution to the refugee problem that the Greek Government is pursuing a policy designed partly to curb humanitarian aid in areas where the resources to help refugees are already far too scarce?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130718	Then it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer the second question from Mr. Karsten Hønge. It was a reading of the question. Sir. Karsten Hønge dropped the last question. So I think that's correct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130730	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question 474. As mentioned in the answer to question 473 the Greek Ministry of Civil Protection has stated that there is no list of persons who constitute a security risk and are therefore undesirable in Greece solely because of their humanitarian work. Having said that, I fully share the concern about the situation of vulnerable refugees and asylum seekers in the Greek camps. One of the major challenges is the current pressure in the camps with overpopulation as a result. This is due, among other things, to: the increasing number of arrivals in 2019 and that therefore only a limited number of rejected asylum seekers are still being sent back to Turkey. It is therefore positive that the Greek autumn asylum reform package will make it easier to return rejected asylum seekers to Turkey. At the same time, external aid remains essential. This applies in particular to the major efforts of humanitarian organisations to help refugees and asylum seekers, as well as the European Union and the support of the Member States of the European Union in addressing the challenges of the Greek authorities. Therefore, Denmark has regularly sent asylum experts to assist the local authorities at Lesbos through the EU Asylum Support Office EASO. In addition, Denmark contributes to addressing the challenges in Greece through the EU's massive support to the Greek authorities and to international organisations working in Greece. We must continue to do so, but we must also do much more. That is why the government has taken the lead in finding solutions that can lead to a new and fair and humane asylum system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130909	Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108130910	It is quite clear that both Denmark and the European Union are helping to deal with the humanitarian disaster. At the same time, however, it is distressing to see that so many resources are still lacking in the area. After all, it is desperate to look at people who, with the utmost of their nails, are actually literally holding onto life by trying to get to Europe and that they are not being dealt with adequately. I am just thinking of the voluntary nature of what is also part of what can complement and can be part of supporting the otherwise official efforts that the European Union and Denmark are contributing to, that it is very worrying that we have a Member State of the European Union, a Greek government which, instead of accepting the helping hand in some situations, at least seems to be holding it up by arresting one of the humanitarian volunteers in this specific situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131011	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131013	As regards the situation of vulnerable refugees and asylum seekers in Greece, I fully share the concern. The situation in Greece, and especially in the Greek islands, is serious, as the questioner also says. That is why Denmark supports Greece's approach to the asylum and migration challenges that it faces. We do, among other things. When sending asylum experts to Lesbos, as mentioned, through the EU Asylum Support Office and through the EU's massive support to the Greek authorities and to international organisations working in Greece. For example, since 2015, the country has received more than 2 billion. The euro in support of the management of migratory flows and, unfortunately, the situation in Greece clearly reflects the shortcomings of the current asylum system and the need to establish a new set of ground rules. That is why the government is working to promote a fairer and more humane asylum system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131101	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131101-2	Again, I would just like to confirm that it is incredibly good that the EU and Denmark are officially in and helping here and that they have cooperated with the Greek authorities. But I would just like to ask the Minister to take a position there. In other words, alongside the official aid programme, the official, massive financial support for Greece, there is also the voluntary: that there are people driven by a desire to help people in need. And there I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on whether the Greek Government should not accept the helping hand of these voluntary humanitarian aiders, rather than, as in some situations, putting a stop to it directly and putting a brake on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131138	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131140	Well, I think it is extremely important and that is where I think the questioner and I share the view that we should provide massive aid to Greece in the situation they are in. We do so both bilaterally and through humanitarian organisations, and we do so through international organisations. And so my experience is that Greece is very willing to receive that help. They need it. This also applies to voluntary help. And then it is clear that when you are in a country, you must of course follow that country's laws and rules. This is true in Denmark, and it is true in Greece too. But it is my clear experience that help workers are welcome in Greece.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131219	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge and thank the Secretary of State. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131226	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131228	Thank you, President. Is the Minister considering or planning any suggestions to strengthen the traditional nuclear family?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131238	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131240	The family is at the heart of our society. Growing up in the community of a family provides security, love and stability. We have to protect that. This applies regardless of what the family looks like, and what I think the questioner, called the traditional nuclear family, refers to is a family with a father, a mother or several children. It may be that I am mistaken that the questioner can then correct me. Therefore, if it is true, I would just like to mention that Denmark's Statistics at one point listed that in Denmark there are a total of 37 different family types with children. Without having to ignore in any way the fact that children who grow up in what is traditionally known as the core family get something important with them in life, I believe that this applies equally to children who grow up in other types of families. There are so many ways to live as a family today. I do not want to stand here in the Chamber and stamp one type over the other. What is important to talk about is the ballast we as a family give to our children. And that ballast there are some children who do not get with them because they experience a childhood with first failure and abuse, and then, after the community had to have taken over: too many shifts for them to actually form a family relationship with those who take care of them. I would also like to say that the way in which families today set out to make everyday life as best they can is very much up to them. The individual family knows best what works exactly for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131411	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131412	Thank you for your reply, although it did not really contain an answer. So there was no 'yes' or 'no' in relation to whether the Minister has any plans with regard to the traditional core family. And when I ask in this way, it is, of course, in the light of the speech made by the Minister's boss, the Prime Minister, at the beginning of the year. I would also like to tell you that this question was actually originally put to the Prime Minister precisely to see if she might have had some thought, but she sent it kindly forward. But when, in the way the Prime Minister did, you were out of reports in relation to forced removals, adoption, etc. In modern times, I understand that there can be many ways to fit in. It has become easy to divorce, and it is easy to get married and yes, it hasn't become easier for children; I think it's been about the same since Adam and Eve, but yet you can fit in in a lot of ways. This does not mean, however, that the rules we in the Folketing make are completely irrelevant to how people choose to adapt. I mean, like... One could consider initiatives where it was financially more lucrative for one of the parents to go home and look after their children in the first few years, rather than having to go into institution. And that was the kind of thing that I would like the Minister, given that the Prime Minister does not find the opportunity to talk about this, to reveal, in relation to what is done by considerations, whatever one then defines as the core family, some initiatives which, after all, make it easier to solve the big or small tasks of everyday life within the family.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131559	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131600	Thank you for your question, and also humbly thank you for allowing me to answer in the place of the Prime Minister. This is quite different from what the Prime Minister addressed in his New Year's speech. Because here it is about the most socially vulnerable children in our society, that is to say some of the children who are let down first by their parents and who, moreover, we do not almost always have enough care when the community takes over. So I would say that the whole discussion about the framework and everyday life of the traditional nuclear family is, of course, a different discussion from the discussion the Prime Minister raised in his New Year speech, which is, of course, about the most vulnerable citizens we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131640	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131642	I fully agree that this is a different discussion, but that is the discussion I would like to have. I mean, unless the Minister has no opinion on that. That is, of course, fair enough if you say: Well how families have the opportunity to adapt and what the possibilities are of whether you can go home or take care of your children, etc., has no interest, because children just have to be institutionalised preferably from birth. That's fine, of course, but then the minister just has to say it. Now the Minister has twice had the opportunity to answer the question: are there plans to support the traditional nuclear family, yes or no? And twice the Minister has failed to give the answer. I hope it will come out a little here in the third round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131716	But then I think it is because the questioner and I look a little differently at what is the prerequisite for being a traditional nuclear family. I see no contradiction between being a core family and having children who go to crèche or day care, go to kindergarten, come to a leisure club, in a club for older children or go to post-school. For me there is no contradiction in that. And I think that these institutions are very good examples of how we in society do what we can to ensure that families can make their everyday lives work together, so that while Mom and Dad are working and going to work, there is a good, secure framework for children in the day-care institutions they may now come into.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131751	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt with the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131752	Then let me ask you another way. Does the Minister not think that it is worthwhile for parents to be able to take care of their children so that, if one chooses to do so, one is not obliged to leave them to strangers, of course well-educated, educators? Doesn't it have any value that in the very first few years you have the opportunity to go home, where your father or mother can take care of you, because you can just get off the career race? Could this not be an initiative which the government could consider, i.e. to make an economic arrangement so that it was possible for more families?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131825	In fact, if I put on my Social Affairs Minister's hat, if I may allow myself, I think it has a very great value that children have the opportunity to enter an institution. We know from some of the most vulnerable, and we know from some of the children who come from a family background, where you, for example, know. does not speak Danish at home, and where mother or father or both are not in the labour market, that it has a value to get into institution and learn both the linguistic framework, but also the social framework, which is one of the things that also matters how people progress in life. So, of course, I recognise that some of being a core family is that mother and father and children also have time together, but I actually think that there is an independent value in the way we go to it in Denmark, where we have some strong day institutions with a skilled staff, and fortunately we get more of that off with the Finance Act we just agreed on before Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131911	Then the question is over. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131917	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131918	Thank you. I'm just gonna get my desk down to my height. There's a little height difference. Will the Minister explain how the Government's plans to increase the number of adoptions and compulsory placements should be put into practice, referring to the Prime Minister's New Year's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108131940-2	We are lucky to have a table that has the same height all the way through. I believe that as a society we have taken far too long to put the child first and that we have given too many parents too many chances. Therefore, we need to strengthen the area so that more children get the right placement early, and more children placed in care must have the extra security and stability that an adoption can provide. That is why we are now going to look at what changes are needed in order to put the child first in earnest. Is it new rules and new legislation, is it better training for case workers, is it the economic conditions of the municipalities, something quite fourth or a bit of everything that needs to be done? I am willing to look at everything and have not yet determined on concrete initiatives, but the government comes up with an initiative for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132029	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132030	I have to say that we in the Danish People's Party find it deeply worrying that as a government one has as its aim to have more forced arrests and more adoptions. Because that is not the number involved; it is about the right children being made the right effort, and that placements and adoptions are made on a well-documented basis. You just have to say that it doesn't happen today. Justitia has come up with a report that shows massive errors. The last case has been seen in the municipality of Frederiksberg. So what this is all about is not that you need more placements and more adoptions, but that the right thing should happen. And there is no one who disagrees that prevention is important, but why is it that the government does not want to help the family as a unit, help the parents and children together as a unit, but says that it is about just more people being forced to carry and that more adoptions are just needed? After the previous government relaxed on forced abortions, a massive increase has been seen. How will the government ensure that it is about the child's best interests and not just about having more adoptions, because it is cheaper in the end, if you are forced to give up a child than if a child is well placed in a foster family, or you put in the past, which is the whole essence of prevention? In relation to the child's reform, we in the Danish Parliament have just put the child in focus. So is it the case that the essence of this is that there are a number of municipalities that cannot figure out how to implement the child's reform, i.e. which, although we have made a prevention clause to be used, can find out? Is that where it's limping? And why is it that such drastic measures are taken in the first place? One simply pulls the hammer out of the toolbox in the first place with the goal that we just need more forced placements and more forced abortions rather than thinking of the family as a unit. And then it's not about being on the side of the children or parents... it's about thinking of the family as a unit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132238	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132239	Those were many questions at once, and I would like to answer them all, but it is not certain that I can reach them. Of course, there is no point in a certain number just for the sake of numbers. When we say that more people must be placed and that more forced labour must also be done, it is because today we are placing children very, very late when the parents have been given a chance. We can see, of course, that when you place, in the vast majority of cases preventive measures have been taken, and you have ended up with a placement, and in those years, while it has been going on, there is a small child who has paid the price of some parents who could not take proper care of it. Therefore, we also end up seeing that many of the older children are so damaged that they cannot be accommodated in a foster family. That is why we must take action earlier, and we know that with the early placements, there is more to it than when it comes to older children, and that is why we must also be willing to resort to that tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132324	Thank you. Then we're on 30 seconds' speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132326	There should be no doubt that the child's best interests are the most important and that as a society we must protect the child, but we must also safeguard the family as a unity, as a single entity. And happiness isn't always just to forcibly adopt and make more forced placements. It is precisely about prevention. Then the Minister says: well, prevention has been done, and that has not helped. Then what we need to do is to look at what quality is in the effort. How do you guarantee quality in this area? It is both a question of quality assurance in the But with the PM's New Year's speech, that's not the way the government will go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132408	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132409	I think that this debate is very quickly marked by people who are trying to sign up to their positions. Of course, happiness is not always to remove and adopt children for adoption; it is unfortunate in every case that parents cannot take care of their children. But parents'right to their children is not entirely faultless. If parents cannot take care of their children, society actually has a responsibility to take over because children themselves have rights, children exist in their own right. And that is what you forget when you are so concerned about the family's right as the Danish People's Party is. This is an honest disagreement, and it has come out very clearly in the debate last week on the Prime Minister's New Year speech. So here the government is on the child's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132448	Last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132449	It is not a question of choosing sides in relation to one or the other; it is a question of helping together. The Danish People's Party is on the side of the children, we are also on the side of the parents, we are on the side of the family, because it is a unified unit. It is a question of helping the family, that is to say the parents to be good parents; it is a question of helping the child to acquire skills and to acquire social skills. However, to have as a goal the need for more forced detentions, more forced abortions, as was said in the New Year's speech, is, after all, the wrong way to go. It is simply a matter of going in and looking at what is behind it, in relation to how, overall, you help the families best.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132532	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132533	I very much agree that we need to prevent this. I very much agree that we need to work for the family, but sometimes there will be situations where the interests of both the child and the parents cannot be addressed at the same time. I believe that we have given parents priority over many years. We have invested in preventive measures. We can see by most placements that when children have grown very big, 10, 11, 12 years old we place almost five times as many 16-year-olds as 1-year-olds or 2-year-olds or 3-year-olds, then there are some children who pay the price in the years in which we try to prevent ourselves from doing this. In cases where we can't prevent it, and that's unfortunate, no matter how you turn it and turn it, we have to be on the child's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132613	The question is over. But we will continue with the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior and also with Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132618	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132619	How will the Minister ensure that more adoptions and forced placements are really for the best of the child when it is documented that there are errors in a great many placement cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132631	It is my clear position and that of the government that we, as a society, must stand on the side of the children and help them in the past. When we place a 12-year-old, there are often more poorer years behind it. We will fail there if we intervene too late, or worse if we do not intervene at all. This also means that we need to strengthen the procedure, because there are too many errors today. It just must not be an excuse not to help the children who are being abandoned today at the same time. That is why we need to look at what changes are needed so that we can increase our efforts for the benefit of children. If it is simpler rules, it is more and better education, it is fewer cases per case. Caseworker, or what is needed? We will look into that. But as we look at it, we cannot sit on our hands with the knowledge we have about how badly we help the most vulnerable children and young people in this country. We place too late, we place when the children have grown up with failure for too many years with problems that have lied on top of each other. We see that the children who are placed have complex problems and that they typically cannot be accommodated by a foster family, but have to go to an institution. And when we saw the page, for example... If we look at the homeless figures, we can see that there are far too many people in the past who end up homeless because we have not helped them in time. Those children must and must be helped, while at the same time having an important task in ensuring better processing and ensuring better quality in placement. It was also one of the messages of the Prime Minister in his New Year's speech: we have to shield these children far better when the community takes over so that they are not first let down by their biological parents and later be let down by society. It's about doing something about the far too many shifts placed children are experiencing. Sadly, many placed children experience shifts in residence, foster care and institution... they go back and forth and become throwing ball in their own lives. They are experiencing too many shifts of caseworker. I met a 12-year-old girl myself at an orphanage on Friday, who was first placed when she was 7 years old. During the five years she has had seven different case officers, and she is by no means the only one. They are experiencing far too many school shifts. We know that the children placed have experienced a great many shifts in school. So we need to help the most vulnerable children better and in the past, we need to ensure better quality in placements, and we need to ensure better quality in procedures, but we need to be able to do things at the same time, otherwise some children will be let down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132842	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108132843	I do not think there is a single politician in this Chamber who does not want to help children and help them in the past. It's about the way you do it. What is happening today is direct system failure against children and against families. As the Minister has just said, there is a constant breakdown in the placements. There is no continuity in that. Nursing children are taken hostage in some pay discussion in some municipality, where you may be told as a foster family that if you do not want to go down in remuneration, the municipality can remove the foster child. That's what's going on today. This is evidently what you mean when you say by the government: we need more coercive measures, we need more adoptions, rather than thinking about the very early effort before the mother even gets the baby and goes and is pregnant. That is where help and support must be used. I think the child's biggest wish is to live with his mother and father and grow up with his mother and father. But it is true that there will be some children, unfortunately, who cannot live with their mother or father and where we as a society have to take action. However, when Justitia is out with a report saying that if the case is not fully disclosed and the parties are not sufficiently involved, decisions on coercion may be taken on an incomplete basis. And it has to be said that they say that this may ultimately mean that children who should not have been brought into the labour market will still, or vice versa, be excluded from compulsory employment in cases where it was really necessary. That's where we have to start immediately, so there's no mistake in this area. Unfortunately, there have been some very serious examples of this area, and it is about the family, it is about the child, and this must not be misunderstood: it is the family as a unit that we must help. When their child has been forced into custody, the parents are left behind on the platform, and there are some grandparents who do not have access to see their grandson because they do not make enough use of the network's resources because they do not properly uncover the network's resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133050	Thank you! The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133051	I think we owe it to each other to keep our mouths shut in this discussion, because there are too many mistakes in the procedure. But when we look at the decisions and how confident they are, the rapporteur knows just as well as I do that the Ankestyrelsen confirms the placements in 98%. of the enforcement proceedings brought against the Ankestyrelsen. This means that it may well have been the case that some of the procedural requirements were not met and, of course, we have to take action so that we can sort out the procedure in the municipalities, but the decision itself was correct in 98%. of cases. So it does not go as far as the questioner says in his question. Thank you!). Then I would say that it is, of course, essential to prevent, but in some cases we will not achieve it here, and there we will have to act in the interests of the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133138	We're up in 30 seconds now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133139	Yes, but my opinion is that you can't have as a goal that you just have to have more forced arrests and forced abortions. The Minister says that these decisions take place in 98%. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter, and if so, what steps does he intend to take to ensure that this matter is dealt with in the Council of Ministers? A podcast has been made about it, which I think the Minister should go in to hear. When there may be so many different studies in relation to families and psychologists, it is deeply worrying that you just want to increase the number and not think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133221	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133222	There is no one who just I hear very many municipal politicians being out to say that we have to do what we can to prevent forced placements. No, we must do what we can to prevent children from growing up in massive neglect, because that is what destroys the little people and makes them end up in our homeless statistics, in our suicide statistics, in our crime statistics, that they get bad lives, where they do not get their feet on the labour market. We, as a society, must do better. I would like to ask the questioner whether the Danish People's Party then believes that we should place fewer, or whether that is just the right number we place today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133300	Thank you. Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133301	For the Danish People's Party, it is not about the number, it is about the right children being placed on a well-documented basis. Unfortunately, as I have said before, there will be children who cannot grow up in their families, and we must do everything we can to help them. But we must also help the family, we must also help the parents who are left on the platform. It is not about numbers for the Danish People's Party, as I have said in the past in a lot of rapporteur speeches in relation to this very important issue. I just see that the resources of the network are not being used, I see that we are cutting our fellowship, I see mistakes and shortcomings in this area, and that is what I think we should address first and foremost before we say that the number should just increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133343	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133344	Then you do not want to hear what is being said in the discussion. We need better placements, we need to help the kids earlier. That's what the goal is. I simply do not understand where the Danish People's Party is in it. I understand that the family is very important to the Danish People's Party, but the family does not have an unconditional right to a child, because the child is in its own right, and if the parents fail the child, we actually have a duty as a community to take over. I still haven't understood whether that means that the Danish People's Party believes that we should place fewer or as many as today. We look at the area and see that too many children are being let down and we draw the hard but necessary conclusion that we need to impose more, because if we are to be able to do this earlier, what the situation is today will require more coercive measures, and we believe that the Community must take that responsibility for the sake of the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133422	Thank you. Then the question is over. I would like to thank both of you. This is the most committed discussion I have heard for a long time and the most significant overrun of speaking time that has been so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133436	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133437	Thank you. In the light of the statements by Anne-Dorthe Hestbæk of VIVE that there is no research evidence to say that forced adoptions help vulnerable children, cf. the article "Experts to the Prime Minister: Focusing on multiple placements of vulnerable children is misplaced by Politiken on 2 January 2020, indicate that the government's goal of multiple forced adoptions will take place without research evidence?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133505	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133505-2	Children have only one childhood, and we must always put the child's right to a good and safe childhood first. I have also noted that the President of the Left believes so. All children deserve a safe upbringing with love and stability. When biological parents are unable to care for their children properly, yes, the community has a duty to take over, because we are failing as a society when we let children grow up in homes with violence or neglect. Those kids need a new home, and they have to have it sooner than they get it today. And then we must ensure that the children placed outside the home have a more stable upbringing. Too many children placed can tell about too many shifts in their upbringing: change of residence, change of school, change of case workers. Children must be allowed to take root so that they can grow up and establish lasting ties and relationships. Here I am convinced that more adoptions are an important part of the solution so that more children placed in care can get a real new start and a family that is not only on loan. There are very few adoptions today. From autumn 2015 to autumn 2019 35 decisions have been taken on adoption, and this is an average of approx. Nine a year. In comparison, there are approx. 2,500 placements. I do not agree with the questioner that there is no scientific evidence that more adoptions can help create a better life for children placed in care. SFI has previously summarised a number of foreign studies of adoption experience in relation to placement outside the home. They showed that adopted children did better than placed children and young people. The adopted ones had better physical development and did better in different skill tests than placed. At the same time, their behavioral and mental problems were less than those of the children who were placed. And as I read Anne-Dorthe Hestbæk's statements to Politiken, she says that there is research from Sweden that points in the same direction. All children deserve a safe and good childhood with parents who give them care and love, and here adoption is one of the solutions we have to give placed children a safe and stable childhood, a real new start. And yes, that is why I think we should look at how we ensure that this option is used more frequently today. This is not the same as saying that we need to use it without thinking about it, and it must of course always be an assessment in the individual case whether it will be the best for the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133715	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133715-2	Now that I hear the debate in this Chamber today and have also heard the previous debate in which Mrs Karina Adsbøl stood here at the desk, I wonder whether the only thing the Prime Minister has done wrong in her New Year speech is that she has used the word more. Too far, far along the way, including in the answer that the Minister is now giving me here, we are in complete agreement. Across parties here in the Folketing, I think we all want the best for the children: we want an early effort to be made, we want quality to be raised. However, I believe that what is particularly striking, and this is the case with several organisations, which, as the Minister himself said in the past, are not criticizing the speech by the Prime Minister in the newspapers, is that we are focusing on the fact that we want to increase the number of both compulsory and adoptions. Does the Minister consider that there is really sufficient evidence to increase the number?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133824	But for that reason alone, if we place that previously, I hear there is broad support for that too, at least from experts; I can be a little unsure where the Left is actually in the discussion about placing earlier, so that the children do not have time to experience so many failures and become so damaged, as is the case today; there will be more children placed. It's such simple mathematics. After all, today we place twice as many children when they are between 15 and 17 years of age as we place when they are between 0 and 2 years of age, and when they are placed children for very short periods of time, we can help them very badly in those years. So there will be more for that reason alone. That is why I think that this is the kind of pseudo-discussion that many people are throwing themselves into in order to avoid answering the real question and which I will now try to get an answer to from the Left rapporteur: does the Left believe that we are putting and giving up for adoption the right number today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133904	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133905	Fortunately, I am now asking the questions today, so the day I am a minister it may be the opposite. Would the Minister agree that the use of a tool such as forced adoptions is in fact one of the most comprehensive and most intrusive tools available to a family? Is it a tool which, frankly, hopefully only needs to be used when it is strictly necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108133938	It is very intrusive to have a child removed from one's biological parents. It's very intrusive to give up a child. But it is also intrusive, if you will allow me to say so in the Chamber. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party You can't do that. But it is also intrusive to let a child grow up with neglect in parents who cannot take care of it. And the children we are failing today are living too hard, too bad lives. We can see it in crime statistics, homelessness statistics, suicide statistics. We are failing as a society. It's too bad. So when we're looking at whether we're willing to use some intrusive methods to ensure these kids a real opportunity for a family that's not on loan, where they can take root and grow up and get the same chances, at least roughly, like other kids, then we're gonna have to be willing to use intrusive methods as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134022	Mrs Anni Matthiesen for her last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134023	Thank you. Does the Minister not agree that in this area we should listen to research, such as: Does it say that there is no evidence that more children should not see their parents and that it is for the good of the children if they also talk about voluntary placements?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134043	It is, of course, the case that cooperation is best, it is best with voluntary action, it is best if prevention is successful. However, I believe that we have gone too far and I believe that too many parents have been given too many chances when we can see that we place almost five times as many 16-year-olds as we place 1-year-olds or 2-year-olds or 3-year-olds, and although we know and the rapporteur knows this better than I do, I believe that there is solid scientific evidence that the first 3 years are absolutely crucial to a child's life, there are still so many of the young children who have to wait so many years under preventive measures and other attempts to help their parents before we actually intervene and help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134120	The question is closed. But we shall continue with the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior and also with Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134124	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134125	What comments does the Minister have on the fact that municipal managers and directors in the area of children and families disagree that more children must be removed by force, cf. the article "Municipal bosses: Voluntary placement is best published in the newspaper Denmark on 3 January 2020?"
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134141	We must and must take better care of the children, because all children deserve a childhood with adults who look after them and give them love where they can be children without walking around with worries and responsibilities that are not for children. We are simply abandoning children today when we allow them to grow up without the care, without hugs, without adults who see them and their needs. Today we place five times as many 16-year-olds as we place one-year-olds or two-year-olds or three-year-olds. It tells me that far too many exposed children are placed all too late. And when we give the parents a chance and it ends up with a placement because the parents couldn't take care of their child properly, yes, then there's a small child who has paid the price while. When I talk to the present and previously placed, the same question goes again: why didn't anyone see me and help me earlier, why should it go completely wrong before action was taken? Those stories must be listened to and we must act on them, especially because we can recognise them in the figures as well. I know that not everyone agrees. It has been put forward by several quarters in the debate, among others. from a number of mayors, that a placement must be the very last way out, to which we only resort when all other bets have been tested. And here I think we find a significant part of the explanation of why too many children are abandoned and placed too late today. I agree that we need to support parents better; I agree that we need to prevent more. But the aim must not be to prevent placement; first and foremost, the aim must be to prevent children from growing up with violence, with abuse, with abuse, with neglect or with adults who cannot help them and see their needs • all the things we know are so incredibly harmful to people and create breeding ground for really bad and hard lives. And here, in many cases, a placement will be the best prevention if we look at what we should be concerned about preventing. We will fail as a society if we intervene too late or if we do not intervene at all. We must stand on the side of the children and help earlier than today, so that all children can have a safe and caring childhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134336	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134337	I should just like to address one of the last points that the Minister has just made. Because I fully agree with that and I think all parties are far, by far, most of what the Minister says. We can all sign that, that is to say, that we must prevent, of course we must intervene in the past, of course we must do everything in our power to ensure that it is for the good of the children. And we have a responsibility for that. But what I really want to ask the Minister directly is: what is the Minister going to do now in concrete terms to make more prevention?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134412	I agree with what the questioner says that everyone agrees on the basis. So was the questioner's own party chairman; he said on top of the Prime Minister's New Year speech: that is right; all children have rights, and we must take care of them. But when it becomes concrete, when it comes to where it is difficult, where we cannot just say what sounds nice, that is to say prevention and good cooperation, then I have doubts about where the Left stands, and at all about what the bourgeois parties think. For it is clear that all that is preferable must be done in all the cases we can. But when it comes to where we cannot take care of the child's interests and look after the interests of the parents at the same time, I have no doubt where we should stand then we should stand on the child's side. But, frankly, I doubt what the Left means when it comes to the matter and it becomes concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134455	Thank you. Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134455-2	I also believe that the Minister has been following the newspapers over the last few days, and then I can say that obviously it is not only the Left that is in doubt as to what the government wants. And that is actually what we are trying to ask by asking these questions today. I can say that I have read a host of letters and articles from institutions, associations and also previously placed, which are concerned. So I would still like to ask what the Minister is going to do to ensure better action in relation to early action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134534	Well, we have to do a lot of things at the same time. That is also some of what I think has been ignored in this debate. The Prime Minister is pointing out a number of things. We must take action in the past, and if we are to succeed in putting in the past when we look at the way in which the placements take place today, then it will be more compulsory placements. For in the young years it is more often forced placements, while voluntary placements are used more often when the children have grown very large and the damage is correspondingly greater and we have failed them for too long. And then we must also ensure better placements, fewer shifts and better settings for the foster parents and ensure that the municipal procedure is under control, but I have to insist that we can do it all at the same time, otherwise we will fail the children we are not helping well enough today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134609	Thank you. Mrs Anni Matthiesen with her last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134610	In fact, in relation to the very thing of learning about the experiences you do around, in fact, where you are already doing something with early effort, I can only encourage the government to address some of the examples and get it spread out more widely. There are places, both in the municipality of Aabenraa and in the municipality of Køge, if I should just mention a few examples where you do something about putting in early action for the whole family. Wasn't it an idea that that's where they grabbed on, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134638	But this shows why you can't try to simplify this discussion, which those who avoid the difficult answers do. Because we must prevent, we must have early measures, but Køge Municipality, as the questioner himself mentions, is indeed one of the municipalities that has a case of adoption. We need to have all the tools in the box, because sometimes things will be so difficult that we cannot take care of both the parents' interest and the child's interest. And here, as a society, we have a responsibility. Because parents' rights to their children are not completely without limits. In fact, if parents are unable to uphold the rights of the child and take proper care of it, the community has a responsibility. We have been far too bad and too late to take that on as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134715	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen and thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. We move on to the next question, which is to the tax minister, by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134722	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134723	Does the Minister consider it reasonable that, according to an article in B.T., Henning P. on 20 December 2019 and all other Danes will be subject to income tax on the value of collected pant bottles and cans, while travelling foreigners will be exempt from tax if their stay in Denmark is less than 6 months? Before I move on, I should like to say that it is the Extra Leaf and not the B.T. I am, of course, sorry for the minor error.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134757	With that clarification, I'd like you to meet the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108134759	We have found this out in the Ministry, but thank you for the question and indeed for the happy New Year to the questioner, and I hope for continued good cooperation. As far as the specific question here is concerned, let me state that the ordinary Dane, so to speak, who picks up a bottle from the street and cashes a mortgage, does not have to be taxed by bottle pant. This means that a pensioner who, for example, on his walk finds some bottles and redeems the mortgage in the local Netto, or wherever it may be, is not taxed. The same also applies to children or others who may participate in what we have seen the Danish Nature Conservation Association do, where they make annual waste collections. If you find some bottles or cans here and cash the mortgage, you are not taxed either. The situation is different in that article. This is the redemption of bottle pant, which has been acquired as part of the person's nutritional career, as it were. In general terms, income obtained as part of the sustenance is taxable for persons who are fully taxable and resident in Denmark. This typically means people who are resident in Denmark. This applies regardless of whether the income comes from the redemption of bottle pawns or from other economic activities. Travelling foreigners, i.e. persons who are not fully taxable and resident in Denmark are not, as a rule, taxable of income from business activities in Denmark unless they have a permanent establishment in Denmark, and this will typically not be the case in the case of redemption of bottle pants. The Danish tax rules are in line with what Denmark has agreed through about 70 Danish double taxation agreements, the so-called DBOs, which I think the Danish People's Party has voted for almost all of them, and which Denmark has concluded with other countries, and therefore Denmark is of course bound by it. Although we changed the Danish rules and introduced tax liability on income from the feeding of bottles for people who are not fully taxable and therefore not resident here in Denmark, we would not be able to tax bottle collectors if they are resident in countries with which we have entered into a so-called DBO. Following on from the 70 agreements we have made, according to the DBOs, the right of taxation of the income derived from it is attributed to the country of residence, as it says.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135017	Here you go, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135018	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. That's not news, you might say. We know very well that there are double taxation agreements and so on, but the reason why I choose to ask the Minister about this particular case is that it contains two different problems. One is the one which the Minister has spent much of his time explaining in relation to the double taxation agreements. We know that one. But, on the other hand, it is also a consideration for the people who live in Denmark after all, and one side of it is that there is someone here who has chosen not to go down to the social office and say: I want 3,000 kroner. for my rent. That person would rather go out himself and get some fresh air and find bottles around in ditches and in backyards and with some individual companies who would like to give them to him. That is where the provocation for many Danes may come to the surface and where it is said: Well, it is not a little crazy that we have created a society that has become so rigorous that you cannot find a reasonably plausible path, also for those who want to renounce social services and who are actually doing the environment and all of us great good by collecting return packaging, which may have ended up in the slightly wrong places. And that is what is really happening in this situation, namely that the person in question is getting a little caught up in regulations, and I fully agree that you have to pay your taxes, even with pleasure, but there must also be a sense of justice, and so it is lacking in the legislation when you go in and make it taxable for a man to collect return pawns in Danish road ditches. That's kind of what happens in this example. I would like to know where the dividing line goes when the Minister says that you can collect too many bottles or too few bottles. How many bottles must be collected tax-free, and how many are not allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135226	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135227	We can answer this a little more directly and in more detail via the Tax Committee, but the examples I gave here were that the pensioner, who on a walk finds some bottles and redeems them in the local Netto or SuperBrugsen, should not be taxed, and that the same applies to these children or to us who run around and collect waste for the Danish Nature Conservation Association, find some beer cans or other and stuff them in the bottle machine; they are not taxed by it either. So of course there is a degree difference, but here we are talking about the more principle. In other words, if you collect so many bottles as part of your diet and livelihood, you have to be taxed on it as well as on other income.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135308	Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135309	We noted last year that a number of foreigners have actually come to Denmark to collect returns on e.g. The Roskilde Festival. We can also see, if you walk around in the larger provincial towns, where there are city parties etc., that there is actually a lot of money to collect if you want to pick up the mortgage. And that's actually fine. I do not really have a problem with the mortgage being picked up, but of course I think it is a definition that is difficult to give, and that is also why I want the Minister to do so, because those who travel to Denmark from Romania will also come because it is something they can make money on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135346	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135347	They certainly do, and that's why they do it. But I would like to start by saying that I have full sympathy for people like Henning, who are mentioned here in the article. It is always good when people take their own nourishment, so to speak, in their own hands, that is, how they get their income. Yes, you have chosen to collect a great many bottles here, and that is why you are taxed by it, just as if you had earned the money by other means, because then you would also have to be taxed by it. For example, when Romanians and others come and collect bottles, they come under these double taxation schemes, which we have voted in favour of here in the Folketing in broad agreement. This is the consequence of the vote that the Danish People's Party also took part in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135430	Hans Kristian Skibby for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135431	Who has voted for what in the Chamber does not change the schism that people from Slovenia or Slovakia or Romania can come from or where they come from as tax-free can collect return money at the Roskilde Festival, whereas a Danish early retirementist from Herning has to be taxed by it. I think it is an obvious task for a tax minister to ensure that there are reasonable demands on what can be done as a private person here in Denmark. The minister owes me an answer about how many bottles you have to collect tax-free. It must be quite simple for a minister to answer, because there has to be a dividing line. So I would like the Minister to explain these things, including in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135512	Then it's the minister. Here you go to the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135513	We can answer that question in more detail in the Danish Parliament's Committee on Taxation, and I am very happy to do so; but the examples I mentioned are, in my view, very illustrative of the answer to the question. So if you are a pensioner, go for a walk and find some bottles on that trip, yes, of course you should not be taxed on it when you redeem them in the local bottle machine in Netto; nor, if you participate in the Danish Nature Conservation Association's collection of waste and find assembled beer cans that can be redeemed, you have to pay tax on it. So of course there is a limit here, and I think it is actually very well described in the examples I have given here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135552	The question is over. Thank you to the author, thank you to the Minister. We move on to a question to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply by Mr. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135601	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135603	Does the Minister consider it reasonable that members of humanitarian organisations and associations which provide for social interests without a fee should pay waste fees?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135618	First of all, thank you for the question, and let me also start by stressing how important we in the government consider the voluntary organisations here in our country to be. They are very important for our cohesion, but they are also actually important specifically in relation to my own resort area, because there are a lot of voluntary organisations that take the lead when it comes to sustainability and when it comes to creating a circular economy. On the specific question, I would like to say: yes, I find that to be the case. Just as you pay for electricity, water and heat, even if you are a voluntary organisation, and even if we as a society think we want to support voluntary organisations, I also think that this is reasonable in this area. We don't say to a voluntary organization: we like you, so don't pay for the elle, you don't have to pay for the heat, you don't have to pay for the water. No, we do not say: Of course, you have to pay for that, just like everyone else. That is why we also think it is reasonable to pay for waste management.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135718	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135720	I am very pleased that there is such respect for the volunteers and that the responsibility shown is precisely that of the volunteers who deserve respect and recognition. That is why I am also surprised that the volunteers are being punished with fees, rather than showing the volunteers, as a society, the respect that they really ought to have. This is about the recognition of some people who are doing a great deal of work for our society and who really did not have to do it because they do it in their spare time or in their retirement lives. That is why I think we should stand by the fact that the volunteers make a crucial difference to our society and that our society would not be able to hang together if we did not have the volunteers and I am also pleased that the Minister has that view. It's volunteer teams in hospital, it's in recycling stores, it's at cultural events, it's in shelters; there's a lot of places where we need it. So I would like to ask the Minister: can the Minister confirm that the volunteers have a central role for our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135824	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135826	Yes, I can certainly confirm that. It may be that this was a rather sharp way of formulating it. I will not reject it, but where we may disagree a little, in relation to the questioner saying that we are punishing with fees. That is not the case. After all, we are using fees, and I believe that the questioner and the author's party will agree with me and generally agree with me that this is a quite beneficial and good instrument. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. If we are dealing with things that we would like to limit, namely waste in this case, it is very good that there can be a fee. And there is also a handling that needs to be financed, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135904	Thank you. Nils Sjøberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135905	Following on from that, I would like to ask: does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for volunteers to be punished for volunteering and that they should pay a tax? Without voluntaryness and without community, we are nothing as a society, which I also understand the Minister agrees with me. How can it be reasonable that a pensioner's group, which specifically collects or clears estates, sells part of it and subsequently gives the money to a nursing home, should pay to get rid of the waste afterwards? In fact, I think they should perhaps be paid for the work they are doing, because they are doing important social work. I would very much like to hear from the Minister about that point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135945	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108135947	I would very much like to help look at what we can do to support the important work of voluntary organisations, especially when it comes to recycling. And it may well be that we can find new and good ways to ensure that it can be done even better. But it is clear that it is not the case that one is exempt from having to join, for example. to finance the waste management that takes place because you are a voluntary organisation, just as you are not exempt from having to pay for water and electricity, etc. So this rhetoric that we're punishing someone, I don't even recognize it. On the contrary, it is a question of saying that we have a shared responsibility for society, which, of course, everyone is helping to live up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140027	Nils Sjøberg, final question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140029	In this context, I would very much like to ask the Minister: can we sit down together and try to see whether we can find a solution that takes account of this work and ensures that this truly important social work continues? I would very much like to meet with the Minister and try to see if we can find a common arrangement that can be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140053	It is not the case that I imagine that we are going to have a major debate on this in the foreseeable future. But the questioner is of course very welcome to present various ideas and send them over to me. Perhaps we can also take them on the committee. And, of course, I would like to comment on them, and it is quite frankly thought that good ideas will of course be welcomed by kissing. I do not think that the way is to exempt from fees, even at a time when we are in fact at risk of being abused, because then a private company can get rid of its waste free of charge by giving it to the voluntary organisations, and then they can deliver it free of charge. I guess that's not the way we're gonna go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140131	Thank you, Minister. The question has been closed, and we are also grateful to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. We move on to the Minister of Transport, but it's still gone, sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140140	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140141	Thank you. What initiatives will the Minister take to ensure that the long-lost double track between Tinglev and Padborg becomes a reality, and what can the Minister say about the timetable for the completion of the double track?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140201	I would like to begin by informing you a little about the construction of the double track between Tinglev and Padborg, which has not been studied in detail since 1993, in fact. This is a very old case, which has also been discussed in the region for a long time. If you want to go ahead with that project, it will therefore be necessary to carry out a new study, which includes: shall provide a new construction estimate for it. This must be done before a decision can be taken to create a double track. Before negotiating a new green investment plan, I intend to ensure that information is provided on exactly what these studies will involve and what they will cost, so that we can get an overview of it. Whether or not we decide in connection with the investment plan on the basis of this paper to start first a study of a double track between Tinglev and Padborg and then possibly to make such a track then becomes a priority issue which is up to the political parties involved in a political agreement. I look forward in due course to discussing such a long-term plan for investment in infrastructure with the Danish Parliament's transport rapporteurs. And here I must say that it is of course up to the Radical Left too to be able to give priority to individual projects; including, of course, one is also very welcome to bring up the very double track between Tinglev and Padborg in those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140342	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140344	If I am to understand it correctly, it is just as the Minister's opinion that it is important that we get the double track. These 14 km are the only place on the line between southern Europe and northern Norway where there is no double track. At the same time, we are in a situation where this area is being burdened more and more by heavy traffic; more and more goods are coming, and if we want to live up to our goal of a 70-percent reduction in CO2 then it is absolutely crucial for me that we get this double track going now. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, following on from what the Minister rightly points out in this context, that this double track has indeed been planned since 1993. It has even been approved by law and signed by Queen Margrethe. When does the Minister actually believe that the missing double track between Tinglev and Padborg will become a reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140456	It is certainly the case that since 1993 the double track has been discussed and discussed a great deal. I've been trying to dive back into some of the many debates there are incredibly many articles and statements and other things. In the many statements, however, I have only been able to find very recent statements from the questioner himself about the double track of the Radical Left. That is why, when we come to the negotiations, I will of course look forward to hearing whether this is a project which the Radical Left transport rapporteur will also be promoting in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140534	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140535	I am very pleased that the Minister is aware of this double track. However, I would like to ask, when we look at the overall transport throughout Denmark, then on train tracks in different places, on highways in different places • when this will come and how. In this context, of course, it is important for us as conciliation parties to know how the Minister prioritises a double track. Is that something that will be at the top of the pile or something that will lie further down in the pile? How does this double track take priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140609	I am almost tempted to put the same question to the Radical Left, even though this is Question Time, where I shall answer and the questioner will ask, namely whether this is something that the Radical Left prioritises as part of their central debate. For it is clear that I will make an infrastructure agreement which is broadly based, and in this respect, of course, it is also crucial that there are as many parties as possible which, if necessary, will be interested in promoting a given project.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140641	But there is no doubt that the Radical Left will give priority to everything that has to do with public transport. It is of great importance to us and to our perception of the importance of CO2 So what I really want to say, in order to get a little closer to this context, which is because I did not really get an answer, is that I believe that both the Minister and I believe that this double track is of great importance and that it is crucial for our freight and passenger transport to Europe. How will the Minister give priority to this? Will it be something that will be at the top of the pile or where will it lie if the Minister himself should decide what things should be like?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140724	In fact, unless the Minister has 90 mandates behind him and even in the case of infrastructure investments, I think it is essential that we make as broad political agreements as possible. I note, as I know, that the Radical Left gives priority to public transport, as the questioner also says, but the questioner does not say whether or not we want to give priority to this very dual track as part of it. I also note that I have already asked my ministry to ensure that we are prepared so that when we reach the negotiations, there is also a basis for decision-making.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140804	That's the end of the question. Thank you, sir. Nils Sjøberg. Let's move on. It's still the Minister of Transport, but now it's Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140812	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140813	Thank you for that, President. Can the Minister guarantee that money will be set aside in the near future for the completion of the Frederikssund and Hillerød motorway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140827	Thank you for the question. Since I took office as Minister for Transport, I have said that it is my ambition to conclude a broad and long-term agreement on new investments in infrastructure. Investment in the infrastructure must be seen in context and requires a stable and long-term perspective. In my opinion, this is best ensured by establishing investments in broad conciliation in the Folketing, so that we guarantee continuity even if the government had to change during the period. It is my ambition that a future infrastructure agreement should reflect a coherent plan for the next 10 years of infrastructure investment. This means listening to the priorities and pointers that are important for the other parties in the Folketing, including, of course, the party of the questioner. I take this process seriously, and that is why I am not going to commit myself at this stage to individual projects either. On the other hand, there are very few things I have rejected in advance. As I am sure the questioner will be aware, I have announced in advance that I do not consider it appropriate to promote a bypass at Mariager. I look forward to discussing new investments in infrastructure, including in the road network, with the Danish Parliament's transport rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108140943	It is good to hear that the Minister is in the jumpla here on New Year's. I'm just afraid that while the good mood evidently dominates in the ministries, the good mood may lie in a slightly smaller place up on some roads in North Zealand. When it is specifically about the Frederikssund motorway, I had several times in December the pleasure of passing through the now completed, beautiful bridge over Roskilde Fjord, and it is therefore a rather tame feeling to get over this beautiful building and then not have a motorway to continue towards Copenhagen, especially when you know that the government that sat before the minister became minister had actually committed, that is to say made the whole process, had found the money, etc., to ensure that the Frederikssund motorway could be completed. Then it may well be that the Minister is in a good mood, but it does not help us drivers who are still sitting away and having incredibly long waiting times because of the arrangements that the Minister will not make when nothing happens. That is why I had hoped, when we had entered for a new year, and the Minister has been a minister for almost six months, that perhaps there was a more optimistic message for both North and South road users in North Zealand, because we really need that. I assume that the Minister is aware that the waiting time at the distance outside Frederikssund, which is missing a motorway, is one of the highest country, and we are wasting money and time and burning a lot of CO2 by the way, so can we not get a little closer to what the time perspective is in relation to both the Frederikssund and Hillerød motorway routes, so that the road users sitting waiting for the Minister can get a clear answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141130	First and foremost, it could have been hoped that the previous government and its support party would have wanted to reach a broad agreement, because then we would not have had the discussion that we have now. However, it has to be said that the agreement of the previous government no longer has a majority and, in fact, in order not to be a lie, the majority of the parties responsible for that agreement have renounced individual elements of the agreement. That is why there is nothing similar to a majority in favour of the agreement which was made just before the last elections and which was probably, in large measure and in practice, more like an election campaign proposal than an actual plan. I do not want to repeat that, I do want to make a broad infrastructure agreement, and I also want the Danish People's Party to be included in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141212	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141214	That's nice. It is always nice to be invited to negotiations, but I think that what people in North Zealand are particularly asking for is not just that we can make some broad compromises here, but also that some things are happening. In other words, we need a clear timetable as to when these two projects will actually be prioritised. We actually had a plan, and I'm glad that the minister emphasizes a plan where money had been set aside and who was prepared to put both of these motorway extensions into effect, but the minister slows and stands here and makes christiansborg talk about that now we have to wait and have broad settlements and things like that. What on earth do you need it for when you're sitting up in your car and you can't get to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141250	I can understand a frustration that something is being done that does not have a broad settlement behind it and that cannot survive a choice. I can really understand that frustration, which is why Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also asked those of his party colleagues who helped to make a very, very narrow agreement which could not survive a choice, why it was necessary. Why not, instead of having done so widely, so that there had just been a broad and reasonable agreement so that we could have given those answers today? That does not change the fact that it is my job to ensure that some broad agreements actually last and where we commit each other not only to a future ten-year period, but also very much to ensure that we are going to make rolling planning so that we do not again find ourselves in a situation where there is no agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141333	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt for a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141336	Thank you, President. I assume that the Minister is aware that it is the citizens outside Christiansborg's thick walls that we are set up in the world to help, and all that talk about having made broad settlements in the past and such things, I actually think most people out there really do not care about. I believe that people who are more concerned about the fact that things are happening than if there are 90, 110 or 179 mandates, and here I have to say that the Minister is not even in a position to give an indication of whether they will be implemented in the near future in two absolutely crucial infrastructure projects. Is this even going to happen during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141410	In any case, I note that the plan of the previous government would not have ensured that these projects were carried out during this parliamentary term, and that is why we must of course also note that this is one of the things that we have to do. will be up to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's party to come to the negotiating table and, if necessary, give priority to this. If it is the case that one really feels a bit bitter and sorry that a previous government made such a narrow agreement that it could not be implemented after a elections, then one has to ask the parties that helped to make the narrow agreement, not the parties that were ready to make broad agreements at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141441	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, and we thank the Minister for Transport. The next question is to the Minister for Children and Education by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141452	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141453	Thank you. How will the government ensure that the extra funds allocated in the Finance Act for the primary school actually reach more teachers and better education in the individual school?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141507	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141508	Thank you. This is, of course, also a question which I am trying to clarify, which is why it is a little premature to answer it. For that is something that the government is going to propose, and I will, of course, let the public know how we will do very concretely when we get there. I would just like now, when I have not spent all my speaking time, to show off a little about how much money the government has set aside. For what we have set aside is a general increase of 275 million. kr. Then it's 400 million. kr. in 2021, 550 million; kr. in 2022 and 807 million; kr. in 2023, and on top of that, the money that we jointly prioritised in connection with the improvement of primary school from the beginning of the year in 2019. When I want to list those figures, it is because it is a large amount of money, and I think the school needs it, and I think that one of the best things we can do for our society is to ensure that the primary school is well functioning. I think that will benefit people, children, in general, and that will benefit those at risk in particular. So everybody wins on it. That is why we have dropped the money, which is why, of course, we are also concerned that it is spent in primary school. But the specific method is relevant to ask about that is the question that I am fighting with now and I will of course inform you as soon as we are ready with a model.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141623	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141625	I wonder if we could get a little closer. Now we are probably in complete agreement on the expressed intention that we should have a very good primary school and that we should support primary school. The amounts set aside are, as I recall, approx. 500 million kr. in 2020, which corresponds to approximately 0.8 teachers per year. primary school. That may not be the point, but my concern is actually about how we can at least get the money where it is going to be spent. I know that the minister says that is something you are working on, but I notice that the chairman of the KL's Children's and Education Committee, Thomas Gyldal Petersen, says: "But the money the government has set aside to lift the primary school must be handled by the municipalities. And: Of course, several employees are an obvious strengthening of the primary school, but for the municipalities it is central that account is taken of the municipal differences. There must be freedom to take local priorities. We look forward to discussing this further with the government. I hear that a little bit, as if the KL says: It's nice that you bring some money, but we want to decide where we spend it, i.e. whether we spend it at primary school or we spend it somewhere else. So I'm thinking, can we get this a little closer? How will the government ensure that this money actually comes out in the public schools and does not just end up in the municipal coffers, which around the country are at least quite sluggish?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141745	No, we can't get any closer, and that's because I'm not ready to make a play now. But I fully agree with the dilemma. Because one can say that the dilemma is that, on the one hand, there are some municipalities that want to decide completely how they spend the money, and, on the other hand, a Parliament that wants to decide that the money is spent in the primary school. You could say, when we translate it into how you give the money, that one model is that you make a pool, which means that you know very precisely what the money is used for, because they are used for what they can be searched for, but that if you make a pool, money is spent on having to seek money, so to speak. Conversely, if you just hand them out to the municipalities, we know what they are being spent on. So what I'm doing is finding a model that's trying to take the best of both worlds, and you're gonna know that as soon as it comes, and if I find the stone of the show, it's close that I get a Nobel Prize, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141834	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141836	Yes, it may be. I think it is quite simple. So, as I read the Finance Act, it is described that the money must be distributed according to the number of children. So we know about how much money each municipality should have. Then I find it interesting to know whether the government will ensure that they are actually used at school. In other words, it involves some sort of bureaucracy if we are to ensure it. So can we get the government's word that you want to make sure that it actually comes out to the individual school?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141910	We cannot get closer today, and that is simply because the dilemma is quite clear. I would say that there is a third way, and that is legislation. So there is bureaucracy, there are pools and there is legislation. So there are different methods, and these are the methods we choose between and try to combine in a way so that we get so close, what can we say, to make a decision that we want from in here without creating bureaucracy. Well, I'm actually not very fond of pools, so I'd like to try to get around that. And yes, there is the agreement, according to which distribution mechanism is to be distributed, but how we do it, it does not really say, and I will let you hear that as soon as we have a model ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141948	The questioner with his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108141949	Now that we're not getting the model straightened out, I'd like to know if we can get a guarantee that it will end up with a model that will ensure that the money goes to the public schools, so that we don't risk this money just going to the municipal coffers around.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142007	If the questioner promises to get me a Nobel Prize, we can talk about it, but it is also the case that when we have a local government autonomy in Denmark, we face this dilemma every time we set aside money for something because the municipalities ultimately manage it. This means that we can choose between something that is very bureaucratic, something that is really legislative or something where we do not know where the money ends up going. We're trying to pull it as far in this direction as we always do, but I'm not very fond of pools, and so I'd like to find somewhere in between. Do I want to guarantee that I can find out, too? Well, I would certainly guarantee that in terms of administration, we are close to having to have a Nobel Prize. So I'd like to get very close, but promises don't come until I have a model.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142046	Thank you. The question is over. We move on to the next question, and it remains for the Minister for Children and Education, and it has continued from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142054	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142055	Thank you. It is a little bit towards the previous question, but nevertheless a little different: what is the Minister's position that calculations from Kraka show that it will cost over 3 billion. kr. to live up to the government's promises of minimum standards in kindergartens and nurseries in 2025 if more children are to be taken into account according to the Danish Statistics projections?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142115	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142116	In fact, I choose to answer what is the connection between the two questions, because I could guess that it was there. If you make minimum standards, you get around the issue of bureaucracy on the one hand and the fact that you do not know what the money is being spent on, on the other. For that would be a middle-variant, namely legislation that ensures a bottom-level level; that is what the legal minimum standards do. Then I turn to the part that concerns the question of Kraka. Because if you now choose to lay down such a legislative base as is what we have agreed in connection with this year's Finance Act, then the level at which the bottom lies is what determines what the bottom costs. Kraka's specific figures I do not know the precise conditions for, but what I can say is that depending on where you lay the bottom, it can be anything from a saving • because you simply put the bottom lower than what is the service level in the municipalities today, and I would think that was a pure disaster if someone came up with it • that you choose to put it as expensive as you want. If, for example, you're gonna have to... chooses to set a minimum standard that every time there is a child there must be a teacher, it will be extremely expensive and at least cost more than 3 billion. kr. So it's just to outline that I don't know Kraka's exact assumptions, but that you can basically make a minimum rating at the price you think is the right level for the number of educators. What is essential about minimum standards is that we ensure that this is the bottom that applies throughout the country, and what is the challenge out there right now is that there are some parents who see that in some institutions there are simply not enough hands. What the legal minimum standards should do is to ensure that those institutions with which the number of adults is too small are taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142251	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142253	That was an interesting answer, which, for me, was kind of wrapped around the agreement that lies in so far as I can read from the Finance Act and where it is actually said that the target is minimum standards, where there are a maximum of three children per year. adult in crèches and six children per year. grown up in kindergarten. So that means there's the bottom. It is described in such a way, and this is the bottom from which Kraka is based. Then you can discuss whether you count management in the ranking and how to make it up. That is absolutely right. There's a big deal about it. I can say that I was at a meeting of my own municipality in the Committee on Children's and Education there, and there we were presented with the idea that if we were to meet the minimum standards laid down in the Finance Act today, it would cost us in the region of 18 million. kr. a year. When we look at the numbers set off, the 1.6 billion. kr. in 2025, and take our share and say that if we distribute it as usual, we'd get about 11 million. kr. out of it in 2025. And that means, of course, that even with the number of children who are today, we will not be able to meet the minimum standards by the means we receive. And at the same time Denmark's Statistics also says that there will be more children in 2025, so it will cost us even more. What should I say to my colleagues in Assens, in relation to where we should take that money? We don't have them that many other places... we actually have a municipal fund that's pretty, pretty empty. We have an elderly area, we have torn out quite badly, we have schools that we have torn out. Now we might get the qua question before a little money for the public schools, or they'll be in the box. There's probably some money coming out to the municipality that way around, but I guess that's not what we need either. So what should I say at home in my own municipality to my colleagues there? How do we solve this? Where do we get that money?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142435	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142438	So, my recommendation is that the municipalities wait until we have put forward the concrete model. Because when you do a mini-mounselling, if you have to go a little closer to how you calculate a minimum rating, then there are several different parameters, which the rapporteur also mentions. So how much does the manager count, how much do temporary workers count in connection with sick leave? Well, how does it fit into the minimum standards? How do special pedagogically affiliated staff, who may be across several institutions, view a classification? Are there any municipal or institutional standards? All of these factors also make an extremely big difference, so it's only one of the parameters that is the one-three-one-six. And if you bring all the variables into play in one direction, the amount becomes very large. In the other direction, it will be considerably smaller.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142525	Thank you, so the answer is done, and we shall have the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142528	Thank you. Well, you can wrap it up in a lot of things, and you can make it up in a lot of ways. But I assume that the minimum standard is described as three children per year. adult and six children per year; adult should actually be applicable at some level, if nothing else so at the level of the municipality, and otherwise at national level or whatever level? So I have to be clear: where do these standards apply? Is it anywhere in Denmark? Is it in a single institution? Is it all set? What do the numbers that it says mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142603	Exactly! I'm sorry, but the response time was so short that I couldn't get there. I totally agree. It would have been almost the sentences that I would have said otherwise: as long as you do not know whether it is at municipal or institutional level, because we have not finished negotiating it, as long as you do not know how much the managers should count, or how much temporary or special educational extra staff count in the ranking, you cannot make a figure for that long. And that's why the number Kraka has made blows in the wind, because it depends on the prerequisites. And since we have not yet decided what the conditions are, that is a guess. And so are the numbers you've made in Assen's Municipality. Therefore, my recommendation will be to say back in the municipality: Wait now to calculate it until you know what these conditions are. Otherwise, one figure can be as good as the other and is therefore no basis for budgeting. Fortunately, they are not doing so now, since it is January.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142646	It's time for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142651	But it's interesting if the numbers just flapping and can't be used for anything. What can we use the financial bill's figures for? What can we use these three children per year? adult in crèches and six children per year. adult in kindergartens for, if it is not something that applies in any particular place? Well, then I hear it a little like you say: okay, there's 1.6 billion. kr. Of those in 2025, we're gonna have to distribute that money and spend something, and then we can see what they're gonna get. Then it is not the norms that are set out in the agreement. At least I find it hard to see what they can be used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142722	Well, the part about the one parameter called one-three-one-six, we have agreed, so that part can be addressed. Compared to what can not be tackled and which makes the figures flutter in the wind: they will, of course, until we have negotiated the rest. Well, we have a negotiation. The agreement also states that we are negotiating the concrete model in the Ministry of Children and Education. And that means that this is what I am doing together with the Finance Contracting Parties now. So it is clear that as long as it has not been negotiated, there is nothing; then you cannot make it, and that is not the point. Because now is not the time for it to come into force. Nor does it say in the agreement that it is now coming into force. So I have the expectation that, over the next six months, we will be negotiating the concrete parameters so that we know exactly what figures we have to relate to, and therefore also before the budgets are to be spent in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142759	Thank you for that, and the question is over. We thank the Minister for Children and Education and Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. We move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The question is from Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142820	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142821	Thank you for that and happy New Year to both the Minister and the President. Does the Minister believe that there may be a need to look at the rules and administration of the rules in order to obtain a tourist visa for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108142838	Thank you for the question, and also for the happy New Year from me to the President and to the questioner. As I understand it, the question has been raised on the basis of a specific case, which I am sure the questioner also understands that I, as a minister, do not have the opportunity to go into. However, I would like to say in general terms that there may of course be recognised reasons why a person wants a visa for Denmark... it is self-evident and there will certainly always be cases where the legislation can be seen as inappropriate. After all, it is almost inevitable when it comes to rules that have to take account of people in very different situations. Although all applications are individually assessed by the authorities, it is important, however, that this is done on the basis of some of the same basic principles, and I therefore also hope that there is common recognition that it is necessary for visa rules and practices in this area to address the challenges faced by nationals of certain third countries, including any increased risk of immigration into Denmark. On visa rules, I can say in general terms that we in Denmark place the visa-mandatory countries in some indicative main groups from 1 to 5 on the basis of an assessment of the general situation in the countries and the migration patterns we know about. The assessment of the division in which a given country is to be located is carried out on a continuous basis and a country can therefore be moved up or down as necessary. However, the division of countries does not change the fact that each application will always be assessed individually. Basically, I believe that the existing model is sensible. In addition, I also believe that the visa practice of the immigration authorities should be seen in the context of the law's other rules on residence permits in Denmark, and when that is the case it is due to the fact that it is an essential consideration in the administration of the rules that we prevent circumvention of the rules on residence permits. For me, it is important that we pursue such a sensible immigration policy, which is linked in all areas and also in the area of visas. I do not think that there is any need for changes to either the rules or the administration of the rules, but I am very much looking forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143044	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143045	Thank you for the answer, which was unfortunately expected. I think this is about what kind of values you want in a society like ours. The Prime Minister spoke in his New Year's speech about the need to restore confidence, and what is the matter here is that people living here in Denmark cannot, as a starting point, be visited by, for example. a child from a country outside the EU, if the country is on this list. The case I have used as a starting point for the question concerns a Thai woman in Silkeborg, who has been visited by her mother during Christmas, but she was not allowed to have a visit from her daughter, because of course the daughter is considerably younger than her grandmother and is therefore assessed to be married, and then one is apparently afraid that she will get married during her Christmas visit and then stay in Denmark and refuse to go back to Thailand. So this woman, who is cancerous by the way, could be visited by her mother, but not by her daughter during the Christmas holidays. So I think it is a wrong way of organizing a society that, as a starting point, you have mistrust of a person's daughter, who therefore cannot visit Christmas Eve and spend Christmas in Denmark with her mother, who is otherwise ill. I think that is a wrong way of organizing it. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether it could not be considered that people could, as a starting point, be visited by their spouses, children and parents. We are therefore talking here about visits; we are not talking about residence permits, but about visiting, for example. on Christmas holidays, and e.g. if you have a reasonably serious disease such as cancer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143244	I would like to start by saying that thousands of visas are given to foreigners every year, and this is completely unproblematic because people are here visiting friends and acquaintances, have to enter into business or whatever, and then they go back home, and it is only for the benefit of our society, just as there are Danes who get visas to travel to other countries. That is how the international community works. However, I also believe that I have to insist that there are some countries more than others where there is a risk of immigration, and it is reasonable that, on the basis of some general rules, we should take individual decisions. I do not know exactly what the specific case is, but if the questioner so wishes, I can answer in confidence what has been the specific reason for rejecting that case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143328	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143329	I've seen the rejection in that case, but it's not the only case. It is basically a question, for example, of whether or not we are going to be able to do something about it. may be visited by his or her spouse or child, even if the child or spouse comes from one of the countries on this negative list. There I think it must be the case, from the outset, that you have to have a visit from your close family, and if people do not leave the country then I fully agree that there must be a punishment for it and also that the police can come and pick him up. But couldn't we make a rule that you can have a visit from your immediate family?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143407	I do not really think there is a need for such a rule because, as I said before, thousands of visas are printed every year and people are visited by both family members, and this is completely unproblematic. We just don't allow it to happen per year. automatic. I would also like to say that if people have a life-threatening disease, it will certainly also be part of the assessment of whether people get a visa, i.e. to visit a family member in Denmark who has a life-threatening disease. I do not know exactly what the case is, but I would say that it has also been taken into account in the assessment there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143442	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143443	I think there is a need for such a rule, because I have now met many people who are not allowed to be visited by their spouses, boyfriends, mothers, children, grandparents, so I really think there is a need to look at the rules so that people can have visits from their immediate family members. To conclude, I think that the Minister should consider looking at the rules, because in the refusal that has been granted cancer is obviously not defined as a life-threatening disease, because that derogation is already there. So that was at least one thing you could look at in the seams.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143518	Fortunately, cancer is not always acutely life-threatening, even though it is a very serious disease. Then I would also like to say that no one is infallible. The immigration authorities are also making mistakes, and that is also why we have a review body, and there is also the possibility of appealing to the Foreigners' Board. I do not know whether the family in question has done so, but there is always that possibility, and there is also the fact that sometimes the decisions of the board are reversed because it is believed that the wrong decisions have been taken. In this way, I think we actually have a fairly well-functioning legal system going on in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143552	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and to Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143602	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143603	First, I'd like to say Happy New Year. That has been said sometimes in the Chamber today. And then to the question: Does the Minister share the concern of chief analyst and residential economist from Nordea Lise Nytoft Bergmann, who has said to TV2 on 3 December 2019 that she expects the abolition of parental purchases in the company scheme as a result of the 2020 financial agreement to mean that many parents will resign, and that will all the other things just mean that the waiting lists on study residences and dorm rooms will be longer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143639	You're welcome. Happy New Year and good seasonal opening to the rapporteur. First of all, I would like to point out that the change in parent purchase in the company scheme concerns the tax area, but of course I am happy to answer the question, which has a connection with the residential area. Well-off parents today can buy an apartment and rent it to their children and receive a higher rate allowance than other private buyers. The 2020 Finance Act provides for the abolition of this option with effect from 2021, in order to ensure fair and fair taxation in the case of parental purchases. The initiative does not prevent parents from buying an apartment and renting it to their children. Nor is there any change in the fact that rental costs, for example: common costs, maintenance, accountant fees, etc. may be deducted from rental income. However, as I have said, the initiative removes the possibility of obtaining an unfair tax advantage linked to interest costs. This will move towards a more equal distribution of income and will contribute to the financing of increased public investment in, among other things, training and green conversion. In relation to the waiting lists on study accommodation and dorm rooms, the effect is expected to be limited, but the initiative may encourage some students to choose a residence a little further from their place of study than is the case today, when prices may be lower. In addition, I can inform you that the Minister of Taxation will present this year legislative proposals to change the purchase of parents in the company scheme. The questioner is, of course, welcome to ask further questions in committee during this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143759	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143800	Thank you for that answer. What we are concerned about in the Left is not so much the tax part of this, it is in this way the supply of study homes and housing for young people. And I also know that the minister has been out with a lot of times and tells about the importance of, in relation to, among other things, that here in Copenhagen we have the very big challenges; every time we have young people to start the study, they go and are deeply concerned about whether they can find a place to live. And there I have at least thought that the Minister shares my and the Left's concern about how we ensure that there are more homes and, in particular, more homes for these young people who need a sense of security at their start of study. That's why we're concerned about how to secure it. Because now that a chief analyst comes out and says that it will have consequences, it is in relation to what I want the Minister's answer. Does the Minister think that there will be more or less student accommodation as a result of this? So will there be more young people standing and having a dwelling, or will we have fewer, so we have an even longer waiting list on the homes that are? For everything else is going to push the young people, who do not come from resourceful families.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143910	The number of study homes and youth residences will be constant, regardless of whether you made this change of law. But what it does is it puts all young people equal. This means whether you are young with parents in Gentofte who can afford to buy a student accommodation for you, if you are young and come from Slagelse with parents who cannot afford it, or if you are a young graduate nurse and want to buy a two-bedroom apartment at Nørrebro or in a bridge neighborhood somewhere else, perhaps in Aarhus, then the three buyers are simply equal. And it is wonderful, and it is good that everyone has the same starting point and that it is not the case that the state gives an unnaturally high gain to the young person who comes from Gentofte whose parents pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108143949	Well, I have to say, I'm a little puzzled when I hear that answer. Because I do not think that most of the young students are in a situation where they may have to study a certain number of years in one city, and then they have to move because they have to find a job that is interested in or would like to buy a home themselves. So I really do not believe that their hunt is to buy an owner's residence; it is that they can find a home where they can afford to live for rent. We just have to keep in mind that the highest su is approx. 4,000 kroner. After baby, it's not like there's a lot of money to run with. That is why I just need to know: what is the Minister going to do to ensure that, for example, we do not lose sight of the fact that we are not in a position to do so? in the City of Copenhagen starting to prioritize more study homes and youth residences?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144031	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144032	I am very pleased that the questioner from the Left raises this issue. The questioner's party colleague, who is the mayor, wrote a speech last week in Berlingske, saying that it was impossible to build more in Copenhagen and that it was just about making changed funding rules. Then it would be good housing policy. So I'm glad the Left still has the ambition to build more. It is an ambition that I fully share, like my party colleagues at Copenhagen City Hall, at Aarhus City Hall and elsewhere, because in the long term it is the best way to ensure that the owner housing market becomes available to as many people as possible, and that is of course part of the goal, and also to young and old.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144107	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144108	That is a very good answer, but it does not give an answer as to what the Minister intends to do in concrete terms. How does the Minister intend to ensure that, for example, we do not lose sight of this? in the City of Copenhagen chooses to give priority to this area? Because it is in Copenhagen that we have the great challenges; that is where we see the young students year after year standing and lacking housing. And now that the government has chosen to remove this corporate tax scheme, it is of course reducing the availability of housing for students. Parents certainly have an advantage there because they can afford it, but their children are going to take housing from those who would otherwise have had a home. I just need an answer to that, because there has been a reduction in the supply of housing in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144148	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144149	Well, I can see that there are many other experts, for example. Christian Hilligsøe and Christian Bækmark, who notes that it does not mean much. And then I would say: why should it be so that students whose parents have a very high income should have an extra tax advantage in addition to the tax advantage that exists, by selling them, you can get 15%. In addition to the fact that it can be withdrawn from the enterprise scheme, should an additional interest relief benefit be granted? I simply cannot understand that. I do not really believe that the questioner from the Left believes that, nor do I believe that the Left, should they return to government, is going to remove the funding of 230 million. kr., as this means in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144227	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is also to the Minister for Housing of Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144236	Please read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144237	This time we won't have a good New Year! Does the Minister believe that the policy pursued so far by the Socialist Government has made it more or less safe to be a homeowner in the broad sense of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144252	Thank you for the question. As you know, the turnover and financing of owner-occupied dwellings are the responsibility of the Minister for Industry, but I would like to say that the government is working to ensure a secure and transparent market. Assessment and taxation of owner-occupied dwellings is a matter for the Minister of Taxation, and here the government is proposing that the new housing tax rules be pushed from 2021 to 2024. A delay shall not result in higher rates of housing In addition, I can refer to the Government's Financial Statement of December 2019, where it appears that the housing market is still in good progress and that there is a prospect that house prices will rise moderately in the coming years. In addition, it appears that there is stabilisation in the market for condominiums. The ownership of the apartment law is my responsibility, and the government is about to put forward a proposal for a modernised ownership of the apartment law to ensure up-to-date, simplified and more transparent regulation, as well as to strengthen citizens' rights. It is therefore my belief that the government's policy makes it safe to be a homeowner in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144348	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144350	Thank you for that review. The question is whether the policy pursued makes it more secure, i.e. the actual housing economy for the individual homeowner. It is not so much about the economic situation in this way. That is why the question is also whether the Minister, when we have cohabitants, who, among other things, have. At present, they are and are concerned about the value of their housing as a result of the negotiations currently under way on Section 5 of the Housing Regulation Act. 2, then believes that it helps to increase the security you have as a home owner in Denmark. The same is true in relation to something like this increased taxes on registration. Once again, it is rather striking that you choose to impose a tax on something. I admit that it is not extremely high if you look at the individual case, but it is again the question of going in and putting taxes on certain groups. And there I do not think that it will contribute to greater security as a homeowner. Because it is the case that Danish homeowners need to know that when they go out and buy a home, they can count on them to afford to pay the monthly benefit. It is not just whether their property holds the value or increases. You need stability in this market. There I think that some of the things that come from the Minister are insecure, particularly in the area of cooperatives, where I would like the Minister to be able to state quite clearly that there is a guarantee of the shareholders' economy and that there is no loss if the shareholder who bought a house yesterday has to sell it when this settlement is in place, perhaps if it is to be a settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144530	Well, that's the last thing we'll have to hope for. I would say that a cohabitation is not an owner's residence. You do not buy the accommodation you live in; you buy a membership of an association and the right to live in a dwelling. But, of course, I am happy to answer it independently. Then I would like to say that with regard to the loss that could possibly be incurred on the properties in which the cooperatives are situated, we will not go further by the government than what the Left itself has declared they will agree to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144602	Then may the Minister enlighten me a little more. Now we are not going to be debating in this Chamber, but I think it is clear that what I have heard from the Minister is that the Minister will not guarantee that the cohabitants will not lose a penny, and at the same time I have not been able to get an answer from the Minister. Well, it's not a crown that's the concern of these cohabitants. What people are worried about is not whether they lose a penny or not, but how much they can risk losing as a result of what the minister has brought in. So, to make it quite clear, we in the Left do not think that the cohabitants should pay for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144635	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144637	I fully agree with that. But the question that the Left has raised in the past and which, among other things, has been raised. I think it was 11,000 different accounts of the loss of value of cohabitation units is impossible to answer. For example: asked Left how much the cohabitants on Læsø would lose, despite the fact that there is not a single cohabitation on Læsø. It is clear that it is difficult to answer, and it is difficult to give a guarantee for something that does not exist. I just have to say that what I have heard from the announcements is that we are ready to go as far as we can and that is to ensure that the cooperatives are not affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144710	Now the Minister is welcome to answer polemically, and he is also welcome to reply as if a computer has not yet been invented to make calculations. I think that is quite fine, but it is not an answer to the co-habitants of Copenhagen. For let us now hold on to them instead of those on Læsø, who then do not exist. How much are they gonna risk losing as a result of what the Minister brings? How much does the Minister think they should lose? Because I just haven't heard a guarantee from the minister that they're gonna lose zero kroner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144737	If anyone should listen and have not followed as zealously as the rest of us do in these negotiations, then I would say that what has been reported from the Left is that a model B and an alternative model 3 will be accepted. It has, in fact, been in the press, and it is exactly as much a loss as we on the part of the government have gone out with. So we will go the same way, and there it is completely our belief that you should be able to go down to your general meeting in the spring and see that your co-habitation is worth the same as last year or more than last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144808	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Housing and to Mrs Heidi Bank. The next person to ask questions is sir. Erling Bonnesen, who asks questions to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144821	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144822	What is the Minister's view that a number of landowners and homeowners with land located lowly on the coast and thus also threatened by and exposed to flooding by storms and at high tides need a subsidy from the state for the implementation of coastal protection projects, for example. because otherwise the costs would be disproportionate for the owners concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144851	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108144852	The basic principle of the Coastal Protection Act is that it is the landowner's responsibility to protect his property. The government wants to maintain that principle. The Coastal Protection Act allows municipalities to establish the protection of longer coastlines, including: the municipalities can charge the costs to the landowners who benefit from the protection and the municipalities can also co-finance. And I understand the uncertainty that landowners on exposed coastlines can experience. Therefore, the government's future climate adjustment plan will include: examine whether the State can play a greater role in coordinating and prioritizing efforts in relation to coastal protection. In recent years, the State has launched guidance work and initiatives to help municipalities and citizens protect values against floods and erosion from the sea. On parts of the west coast of Jutland, which are both particularly vulnerable and characterized by few landowners, the State contributes to the joint agreements. The government wishes to continue to support local responsibility and has recently reached a broad political agreement, including: with the Left, to prevent necessary municipal joint projects from dragging on due to complaints. This year several tools follow, among others. a national risk assessment containing guidance on how the risk of flooding and erosion can be dealt with in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145018	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145020	Thank you. But as far as joint municipal projects are concerned, that is to say, across municipal boundaries, and that of course the municipalities are there, and also that the landlords somewhere along the way, as far as is reasonable, they have their own hand on the hot plate. I think that is something that many pilots who want to benefit from such a project are in agreement with. What it's all about here is when it goes beyond it. In other words, there may be a situation where a small urban community with a certain number of houses, for example. A major project will be carried out, but where it will then be disproportionately expensive. That is where it could call on the state, and it is also such a situation that one might refer to the fact that, before the elections, the Minister's party itself also advocated. And that is what I am asking you: is this where you can expect and expect the Minister to put his views through, including in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145113	Well, I understand that the rapporteur is asking, because I think we are all very concerned about this issue. We can see that there's more water coming down from above. We can see that there are more who are exposed to the coasts and that coastal protection needs to be ensured in many parts of the country. And that is also why it has been included in the Social Democrats' presentation before an election, and that is also what I am referring to in my answer. But it is something about taking things in the right order too, and what we have announced that we want to do is a global climate adjustment plan, and I hope that we can have a good dialogue with the Left about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145152	Further to this, we can also refer to the 'I can also understand that the Minister remembers that before the election the Minister's own party also advocated that some more money should be set aside. It was given different terms, but a fund was mentioned • we could call it a pool or an account; it was at least some money from the Treasury, that is, money that had to be dropped off on the Finance Act in the end. One might ask whether this is something concrete, so that there will be more pools now, because some of the pilots who are in these situations may quite rightly ask what they can expect. Can you expect a government proposal to put such a pool on?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145230	It is true, as the rapporteur says, that there are both some pools and some joint agreements today, where there is funding and commitment from the state. We have gone reasonably without prejudice to the task, even when we have been able to see that there are some places where citizens have been squeezed, for example in Jyllinge Nordmark, where, year after year, efforts have been made to ensure that coastal protection is put in place. There I have been extremely pleased that we have actually been able to reach an agreement across the Folketing with almost all parties. Then there is the climate adjustment plan, which we now need to start with, and I hope that the process can be the same in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145312	In addition, it may be a bit comparable, but perhaps a slightly different size ratio than at Jyllinge Nordmark • Odense Fjord and Seden. I am well aware that for good reasons it may not be a hundred percent sharp, but one can certainly see just such a cluster of houses that are in cooperation and dialogue with the City of Odense some way along the way, and that they exactly expect such a hand-out. In connection with this, they also point out that there are some things they can do and some things they cannot do at first sight. In this context, it might also be useful to have the Minister's indication of whether we are prepared to look at some practical approaches if there are some bureaucratic misdemeanors to pass.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145355	I have also been in dialogue with Seden Strandby, who has written to me about their challenges, and they've asked about this pool, and if they could share it. But there is the challenge just that they do not immediately meet the conditions that need to be met, because it is not an area threatened by erosion, and that is what that pool is for. Does this mean that no other thing can happen or that we should not look at their problem? No, it does not, but it is not because I have a concrete solution for them here today. However, as I said, I am in dialogue with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145426	Thank you. The question is over. Erling Bonnesen and the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145433	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145434	Thank you. The question is: what is the Minister's position on double-profile watercourses and will the Minister ensure that these, i.e. double-profile watercourses, can be a major instrument in the future work on watercourses and will the Minister ensure that the necessary funds are allocated to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145453	Thank you for the question. Just for those who are not necessarily quite inside the jargon, I would say that a double-profile stream is a stream that has a wider profile at the top and a narrower profile at the bottom. You could say that the watercourse has an extra incision in the brink. Under normal conditions, the watering is carried out in the lower profile of the watercourse, and the upper profile of the watercourse is intended to be able to carry more water away when there is a need for a larger runoff. Double-profiled watercourses are one of the three recognised instruments that go under the generic term physical installations on agricultural land. The other two instruments are miniådale and the restoration ofådale. The three instruments work partly in the watercourse and partly on the surrounding area. The aim of the three instruments is to restore the system and improve the state of the environment. In addition, the instruments can have good synergy and support drainage, biodiversity and climate interventions. I am working to ensure that the instrument double profile watercourses can be used during the implementation of the river basin management plans 2021-2027, which is why during the newly launched water advisory work it is also possible for municipalities and water councils to report that instrument under other interventions. It is important to me that the municipalities and water bodies, based on their local knowledge, give their input to what they think are the most effective watercourse initiatives. This also applies to the so-called other interventions. At the same time, in connection with the contribution of municipalities and water councils to other initiatives, attention can be drawn to how the priority of one of the physical instruments on agricultural land could involve nature in the watercourse and in climate adaptation. As we both know, the impact also included a double profile in the indicative framework for 2016-2021 and agreement on the rural programme for 2016-2018. The previous government decided that they set aside 27 million. kr. Annually, priority was given to other purposes in the context of the previous government's agreement on the agricultural package.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145649	Thank you. I think this is a balanced approach to it. I understand that we agree that we need to take care of our watercourses and our aquatic environment, and exactly the double profile watercourses are one of the things that can help ensure that we can make things fall apart, i.e. both take care of our watercourses and the aquatic environment while ensuring the necessary drainage that is needed. So is it also the general view of the Minister that this could really be a good tool that can be used around just to make these things fall into disarray? We often see that some people have a slightly skewed view that it is either-or, but perhaps with this you could come a good way along the way and say that it can be boats-and, so that we can both secure the watercourses and take care of them where it is going to happen, and at the same time ensure that the water can run away?
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145734	I am, in fact, very concerned that we ensure a balance in relation to our watercourses. Where we have disagreed now comes the questioner and I also from another consultation is that I think the balance has been tipped to one side, namely that there has been too much focus on drainage and too little on our nature in our watercourses. So I'm trying to make sure we get even more focus on that. Having said that, however, in all the work that is now in the Water Councils, there is a great need for broad political support and for them to be able to use some of the instruments that I have just outlined, among other things. also double profile.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145813	Looks like we're on our way. My next question could be whether the Minister will try a little more actively to ensure that this will be a good instrument. It is good to wait for the wishes to come from municipalities and pilots, but it is also important for the Parliamentary Chamber to give a clear message that double profile watercourses and miniådale watercourses, in order to now also have a reference to the Minister's previous reply, are good means of action, so we tell them that they can look at it, because it can make some of these things fall into nicks. And it could just help bring that debate forward so that it will not be so much either-or, but more both- and.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145855	In fact, that is exactly what will be the work of the local Water Councils. After all, it is water councils that are composed of different interests, but have the local knowledge needed to know what needs to be done, so how we should give priority to doing something good for all the watercourses in the future water plans, and then, in relation to the three instruments, where among other things. The double profile is included, report out. I believe that the right model is for us to get the local kick in, and then we shall have to make the final political priority afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145931	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145932	When, as expected, there is a series of reports that you would like to have these local places, then it is also some wishes that are at least a " now" you should not stand here and do the casework on all the individual things of the overall attitude. Thank you for that, it is actually a good way to go, so let us have a look at it, because it can be a good approach to it and a good message from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108145957	In any case, we have said to the Water Councils that as part of the task which they are assigned in addition to prioritising the physical watercourse effort, they can make the other submissions here. I think that is a very clear signal from me that we would like to have this type of feedback, because it is also something that can serve several purposes. It can have both a drainage purpose in relation to the specific watercourse, but at the same time it should also serve our climate and our nature, because we have a huge task ahead of us with all the green that we have to do in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108150035	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment, and thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200108150043	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 9 January 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
